---
layout: minutesLayout
year: 1817
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
title: Board of Visitors Minutes (October 8, 1817)
name: Board of Visitors Minutes
location:
  '@type': Place
  name: University of Virginia Library
  address:
    '@type': PostalAddress
    addressLocality: Charlottesville
    addressRegion: Virginia
    addressCountry: United States
organizer:
  '@type': Organization
  name: University of Virginia Board of Visitors
keywords: Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, minutes, governance, education
description: >-
  Official minutes of the University of Virginia Board of Visitors, detailing
  decisions made regarding faculty appointments, funding for the college, and
  other board actions.
attendee:
  - '@type': Person
    name: Alexander Garrett
  - '@type': Person
    name: Doctor Thos. Cooper
about:
  - '@type': CreativeWork
    name: Virginia Freedom of Information Act
  - '@type': CreativeWork
    name: University of Virginia Special Collections
---

<!-- altadded -->
<!-- altadded -->

<!-- llmmeta -->



<!-- llmformatted -->

# Board of Visitors minutes (1817) October 8, 1817

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
October 8, 1817\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Certain letters from Doctor Thos. Cooper to Th: Jefferson, dated Sep. 17. & 19. received since the meeting of yesterday being communicated to the board of Visitors, and taken into consideration with his former letter of Sep. 16. they are of opinion that it will be for the interest of the College to modify the terms of agreement which might be generally proper, so as to accommodate them to the particular circumstances of Doctor Cooper and to reconcile his interests to an acceptance of the professorship before proposed to him. They therefore resolve:

1. That the expenses of transporting his library & collection of minerals to the College shall be reimbursed to him.

2. That however disposed they would be to purchase for the College his collection of mineral subjects, his philosophical & chemical apparatus, the extent of their funds is as yet too little ascertained to authorize engagements for them; but that an interest of 6 pr. Cent pr. Ann. on a fair valuation should be paid for the use of them in his own hands, until it can be seen that the other more indispensable calls on the funds of the college will leave them competent to the purchase.

   And, ultimately, should nothing short of the immediate purchase of these articles be sufficient, then we are of opinion that their purchase be made, and the ready money, if required, be obtained from the banks as proposed in the resolution of yesterday for other pecuniary deficiencies.

3. That the expense in articles consumed necessarily in a course of chemical lectures shall be defrayed by the College.

4. That the branches of Science proposed for Doct: Cooper be varied & accommodated in his case, as it is expected they must be in others to the particular qualifications of the professor.

5. That the committee of Superintendance of the proceedings of the Proctor in the execution of his functions heretofore appointed, are authorized to take such measures as they think best for providing the necessary apartments for the use of the chemical and mineralogical purposes.

Resolved that Alexander Garrett be appointed treasurer for the College.
