---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1827'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1827) July 10, 1827
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 10, 1827

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

24 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Students

Antient Languages

Modern Languages

Mathematics

Nat. Philosophy

Nat. History

Medicine

Moral Philosophy

Law

Total

Remarks.

Antient Languages

53.

Anatomy & Medicine

16

Modern Languages

59.

Moral Philosophy

12

Mathematics

62

Law

18.

Natural Philosophy

24

Medical Jurisprudence

20.

Natural History

38.

At a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, held at the University on the tenth day of July 1827, at which were present James Madison rector, James Monroe, George Loyall, John H. Cocke and Joseph C. Cabell.

A letter was read from Professor Key, dated March 10th 1827, communicating the resignation of the office held by him in the University, as authorised by a resolution of the Board passed on the 7th of October 1826; and requesting alterations in the period at which, agreeably to the said resolution, it was to take place. Upon consideration thereof, it was

Resolved —— that the resignation of Professor Key be accepted, to take place on the 15th of August next.

During the rest of the day, the board were occupied in attending on the public examination of the students.

Wednesday July 11. The board met, present the same members as yesterday.

Communications were received & read from various persons. The Reports of the Bursar and Proctor were received. After which the board were again occupied in attending on the public examination.

Thursday, July 12. The Rector was taken seriously ill during the night; and is now confined to his bed. No meeting of the board, except for attendance on the examination.

Friday, July 13. The Rector still confined to his bed. The board met, present James Monroe, George Loyall, John H. Cocke, Joseph C. Cabell and Chapman Johnson.

The board had a conference with Th. Jefferson Randolph on the subject of the loan to the University proposed by him as trustee to his mother, Mrs Martha Randolph.

They then attended the examination; on their return from which, they commenced reading the minutes of the Faculty proceedings.

A claim was presented to the board from the Mutual assurance company, amounting to $22.62. — A notice was received from James Oldham that he would on the second Monday in August, proceed to take certain depositions relating to a suit between himself and the University.

Resolved that it shall be the duty of the chairman of the faculty to prepare and lay before the Visitors, the annual consolidated report founded on the weekly class Reports; and the said consolidated Report shall be divided into three distinct and separate parts, as follows:

Part I. A concise and clear statement of the heads of the lectures or subjects of instruction delivered or taught by each of the Professors during the preceeding course.

Part II. A statement of 1. The number of times which any professor shall have failed to lecture on the regular days appointed for his lectures. 2. The number of times which any professor shall have failed to examine his class on the days appointed for such examination. 3. The average time occupied by each professor in the delivery of his lectures. 4. The average time occupied by each professor in the examination of his classes. 5. The number of times that each Professor shall have failed promptly to make his weekly class report, as required by the enactments.

Part III. A statement of the number of times which the students may have been absent from lecture or examination; and of their different degrees of attention and proficiency in their respective classes, exhibited in the following tabular form.

\[See next leaf\]

Note. In the application of the preceding formula, the requisite subdivisions should be made under every general head, so as to furnish a column for every class in each department, with the name of the class

Saturday July 14th. The Rector still confined. The board met, present the same members as yesterday.

The Proctor's report on the state of the Library was received, & read. The rest of the day was taken up in attending on the examination.

Monday, July 16. The board met, present James Madison rector, James Monroe, George Loyall, John H. Cocke, Chapman Johnson, and Joseph C. Cabell.

On their return from a visit to the examination room, Professor Bonnycastle was admitted to a conference on the subject of class reports as applicable to the School of Natural Philosophy.

Professor Dunglison and the Proctor were then conferred with, on the subject of the anatomical theatre. After this conference, the board, with the exception of the Rector, proceeded to inspect the anatomical theatre.

On their return,

Resolved, subject to reconsideration, that the sum borrowed of the trustee of Mrs Randolph, shall be Twenty thousand dollars.

And the board adjourned to tomorrow.

Tuesday. July 17. The board met, present the same as yesterday.

A letter was received and read from Professor Emmet, on the subject of the chemical laboratory. The reading of the minutes of the Faculty was resumed.

Professor Bonnycastle was admitted to a conference on the Subject of the Schools of Mathematics and of Natural Philosophy.

Resolved that hereafter, there shall be a standing committee of the Visitors, to be appointed on the first day of every meeting, whose duty it shall be to examine and report to the board, the state and condition of the Library, the Philosophical and chemical apparatus, the Surgical instruments and anatomical preparations, the Collections in Natural History, the donation under the will of Mr Jefferson, and the buildings, enclosures, water works, grounds & other property of the University.

Resolved that hereafter, in the school of Mathematics, in addition to what is now required by the enactments, there shall be taught the application of Mathematics to Natural Philosophy; and in the school of Natural Philosophy, shall be taught the application of Physical science to the arts. — The board, however, reserves the right of prescribing more accurate limits to this assignment of duty, and of otherwise modelling it, or repealing it, as may be found expedient.

Resolved that Charles Bonnycastle, the professor of Natural Philosophy, be transferred to the chair of Mathematics, vacated by the resignation of Professor Key: provided that such transfer shall in no manner affect the contract entered into between the said Bonnycastle and the University, through their agent Francis W. Gilmer, otherwise than by substituting for the duties required of the professor of Natural Philosophy, those required of the Professor of Mathematics.

The secretary is requested to communicate the two fore going resolutions to professor Bonnycastle.

The board then adjourned to tomorrow.

Wednesday, July 18th. The Board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved that the Professor of Chemistry be requested to prepare and to lay before the Visitors at their next meeting, the plan of a chemical laboratory and of a Lecture room connected therewith, large enough for the accommodation of a class of 200 Students; & that the proctor be required to present an accompanying estimate of the expense of erecting the same, of durable materials, and in a plain & neat style of architecture.

Resolved that, in future, the subject of Materia Medica shall be taught by the Professor of Natural history, instead of the professor of Anatomy & Medicine.

Resolved that the minerals and other objects of Natural history shall remain under the superintending care of the Professor of Chemistry & Materia Medica; but he shall be discharged from the obligation of delivering Lectures on Zoology, Mineralogy & Geology.

Resolved that there be appointed in the school of Medicine, a demonstrator of Anatomy & Surgery, whose duties shall be particularly defined by the professor of Medicine, subject to the control of the executive committee in the recess of the board, and of the Visitors during its session.

The Demonstrator shall be allowed a house or rooms and grounds for his accommodation, such as shall be assigned by the executive committee. He shall be allowed a salary of five hundred dollars per annum, and a fee of fifteen dollars for each student who shall attend him; to be paid to him as the professor's salaries & fees are paid; and he shall be free to attend the lectures in any of the schools, without fee.

The fee paid to the demonstrator shall not be taken into the estimate, in ascertaining the amount which any professor will be entitled to, from a student attending him.

He shall be appointed by the professor of Medicine, subject to approval or rejection by the board of Visitors, or by a Majority of the Visitors in recess of the board. And may be removed at the pleasure of the board, at the end of any session.

Resolved that the Proctor shall cause a neat iron railing to be placed on the right and left of the portico of the Rotunda & adjacent to the same; so as to exclude access for the purpose of walking over the gymnasia.

It being expedient, with a view to the healthful exercise & recreation of the professors & students of the University, to provide public walks shaded in summer by suitable trees,

Resolved that there shall be set apart and appropriated to this purpose, that portion of the public grounds lying south & south-west of the buildings of the University, & bounded as follows, vix: —

On the East, by a line forming a continuation of east street & extending down to the public road; on the South, by the public road; on the West, by the ravine between the barn situated on the University grounds & the house now occupied by the Proctor; and on the North, by a line formed by the road now extending from the barn aforesaid, to the southern end of east street, but departing from the said road so as to leave out of the public walks, the brick stables of the professors and hotel-keepers standing near the Southern end of the west street.

It shall be the duty of the Executive committee to cause the grounds lying within the limits aforesaid, to be inclosed, by causing the stone fence to be repaired & made an effectual fence, as far as it extends along the public road, & by causing a strong & close post & rail fence to be placed along the residue of those limits. As soon as the grounds shall be enclosed, the Executive committee shall cause them to be laid out into suitable walks, and planted with appropriate trees, in clumps, avenues, or otherwise, as to them may appear most expedient & proper.

In the fulfilment of these duties, the Executive committee shall have authority to employ the agency of the Proctor & the services of the laborers of the University; and, in addition to the expense of the enclosure, to expend such amount annually, as may be necessary in the aforesaid improvement of the grounds; not exceeding, however, the sum of one hundred dollars per annum.

Resolved that the Executive committee shall also cause that portion of the University grounds lying to the north of the Buildings, and between the same and the public road, to be enclosed by a strong and neat post and rail fence, and to be planted with appropriate ornamental trees, as to them may seem most proper. And that in the execution of this duty, they shall be authorised to avail themselves of the Agency of the proctor & the services of the laborers of the University, as aforesaid.

Resolved that the executive committee shall also cause a strong and neat post & rail fence to be made at the southern extremity of the area between the pavilions.

Resolved that stock of all sorts shall be excluded from the Public walks, from the enclosure north of the Rotunda, & from the area between the pavilions; and the execution of this order is hereby given in special charge to the Proctor.

A letter was received from Professor Bonnycastle, expressing his assent to the transfer made of him from the chair of Natural Philosophy to the chair of mathematics, by a resolution of the board, passed on yesterday.

Resolved that the duties of the chair of Natural Philosophy be confided to professor Bonnycastle, till a professor be appointed to that chair and assume its duties; and that the fees for attending the school of Natural Philosophy for the ensuing session, shall be divided between professor Bonnycastle and his successor, in proportion to the time they shall respectively perform these duties.

In answer to the communication of this date, from a committee of the Jefferson Society, the proctor is requested to inform them that while the board cannot permanently appropriate to their use, the room which they now occupy, they will not be unnecessarily disturbed in the use of it, but will be permitted to occupy it as heretofore, till it shall be required for some other purposes of the University.

Thursday, July 19. The board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved that the Bursar of the University be authorised to borrow from Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee of Mrs Martha Randolph, a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, at an interest of six per centum, per annum, payable semi-annually, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond.

For the money so borrowed, a stock shall be created, irredeemable for twenty years, and afterwards redeemable as shall be expressed in the certificates hereby directed to be issued.

For each sum of five hundred dollars so borrowed, a certificate shall be issued to the lender, signed by the Rector and countersigned by the Bursar, under the seal of the University; to the effect following:

The Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia, owe to Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee for Mrs Martha Randolph, the sum of five hundred dollars, for so much money borrowed of him, pursuant to an act of the General assembly, passed on the    day of      , entitled            which sum they promise and oblige themselves and their successors to pay or cause to be paid to the said trustee, his executors, administators or assigns, at the expiration of \[twenty years\] from this date, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond, together with six per centum, per annum, interest thereon, payable at the said office, on the 1st day of January and the first day of July, in each year.

In testimony whereof, We, the Rector & Bursar of the said University, acting under a resolution of the board, passed on the 19th of July 1827, have hereunto set our hands and caused the seal of the University to be affixed, this    day of      , in the year Eighteen hundred and

The certificates so issued shall be numbered in succession 1. 2. 3 &c. Numbers 1. & 2. shall be made payable twenty years after date; Numbers 3. & 4. twenty one years after date; numbers 5 & 6, twenty two years after date; and so each two successive numbers shall be made payable one year later. But on each certificate, except numbers 1. & 2., there shall be an endorsement bearing even date with the certificate, and signed by the lender, to the following effect:

Memorandum — Though the principal sum appearing due by the within certificate, cannot be demanded by the holder till the time at which it is made payable within, yet it will be at the pleasure of the Rector & Visitors to pay the sum at any earlier period, after the expiration of twenty years from the date.

Given under my hand, this    day of      , eighteen hundred and

Pursuant to the said memorandum, this board retains the full power of paying the principal sum which shall be due on each certificate, at any time after the expiration of twenty years from its date, although it may be made payable, on the face of the certificate, at a later period.

For the payment of the interest, and redemption of the principal of the loan hereby authorised, the board pledges the annuity of the University payable from the Literary fund.

The money borrowed in pursuance of this resolution, shall be applied to the payment of the debts of the University, due & to become due; to the finishing of its buildings; to supplying water to the University, and purchasing a fire engine & hose.

The celebration of the anniversary of Independence & of Washington's birthday, in a manner becoming a literary institution, is reconmended to the Professors & students, as a duty worthy of constant observance. But no festivities which naturally lead to excess, are admissible on the occasion. Public dinners therefore, are strictly prohibited; though a ball or other evening party attended by professors & students, having its pleasures chastened by the company of ladies, is allowed, under such regulations as the faculty may prescribe.

The celebration most appropriate to a University, must blend literature & science with the indulgence of patriotic feeling.

The board therefore recommend for the fourth of July, the reading of the Declaration of Independence, with suitable solemnities; orations, on the day and on other subjects, historical, literary and scientific— to be spoken or read, under the regulation of the faculty. They recommend that the subjects of composition shall be given to the students, a suitable time before hand; — that each student who pleases, compose an oration or write a discussion, on such as he may select; — that these compositions, with the name of the author sealed, be submitted to the faculty, for their inspection & criticism; — that such as are deemed proper to be publicly read or spoken, have their seals broken and be returned to their authors, for the purpose of being read or spoken; and that those which may not be deemed proper for public exhibition, be returned to their authors, with the seals unbroken.

For the 22d February, they recommend, under similar regulations, compositions on subjects illustrating the life and character of Washington, and other suitable subjects; to be publicly read or spoken, as may be deemed proper by the faculty.

Resolved that Martin Dawson be authorised & desired to examine and settle the accounts of the Proctor since the period of the last examination and settlement: And that J. H. Cocke & J. C. Cabell, or either of them, be a committee to examine & settle in like manner, the accounts of the Bursar.

Resolved that, from the commencement of the session, till the last of April, the hours of lecture shall commence at half after seven, & follow in the succession heretofore prescribed, till half after one; when there shall be an interval of one hour, for dinner, so as to postpone the last prescribed lecture to the hours between half after two and half after four O'clock.

From the last of April till the end of the session, the lectures shall commence at half after five in the morning; and continue till half after seven. Then allowing half an hour for breakfast, shall commence at eight, and continue in regular succession, each occupying two hours, till two O'clock in the afternoon.

The days for lectures in the several schools, and the order in which they will succeed each other, shall be as heretofore prescribed by this board.

Resolved that in every instance in which an infraction of any regulation on the part of a student, comes under the notice of a professor, it shall be his special duty to make an official report of the case to the Chairman.

Resolved that, in addition to the examinations already required, it shall be the duty of the Professors of the University, to prescribe to the students in their respective classes, frequent & regular themes, adapted to their previous acquirements, and calculated to develope and strengthen their mental faculties.

Resolved that, on the subject of publishing the names of the students with reference to their proficiency in their classes, the board refer it to the more deliberate consideration of the faculty whether they will make any publication in the newspapers at all.

If any such publication should be thought expedient, the board earnestly recommend it to the faculty, to publish only the names of a few preeminently distinguished, in each class; exceeding, in no class, either five in number, or one fifth of the whole.

They approve the classification of the whole number of students, as proposed by the faculty, so as to ascertain their relative proficiency. But they recommend that that classification shall be no farther used than to be laid before the Visitors, and to enable the chairman to communicate to each parent & guardian, the standing of his own son & ward,——without informing him of the standing of any other student in the class.

Resolved that the annual salary now paid to the Janitor be hereby augmented by twenty five dollars.

Resolved that the letter of Dr Emmet of July 10th, and the account of the Mutual Assurance Society, be referred to the Executive committee, to be acted upon by them, as may be found expedient.

Resolved that, in answer to the letters of Mr Egan, the secretary is requested to inform him that, while the visitors feel interested in the prosperity of his school, & would cheerfully, if they could, contribute to its success; they do not consider themselves justified in recognising a connexion between it and the University, or in acceding to Mr Egan's request, by relaxing the laws which have been enacted for the government of their library.

Resolved that the regular session of the Rector and Visitors of the University, shall hereafter be held annually on the 10th day of July; or, if that be Sunday, on the next day: and be continued at the discretion of the board.

Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty shall be authorised to employ a suitable person to work the Lithographic press, when required by the Professors of the University; and to attend the professors of Natural Philosophy & Chemistry, in their lecture rooms & in the Laboratory.

The person thus employed shall receive as a compensation for his services a sum not exceeding one hundred & twenty dollars per annum; and shall be removable at any time, at the pleasure of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved that William Matthews, the Military Instructor, be authorised to have the use of the Library, on the same terms and conditions as if he were a student, so long as he may reside within the precincts of the University.

Resolved, that no student, without permission of the faculty, shall leave any class which he may have entered, or leave the University before the end of the session. And if any shall offend herein, he shall be subject to any of the major or minor punishments, or may be refused admission into the University, at the next session, at the discretion of the Faculty.

Resolved That the school hitherto denominated the school of Anatomy and Medicine, shall be hereafter called The School of Medicine; the professor thereof shall be called The Professor of Medicine; and there shall be taught therein, in addition to what is now required, Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence.

Students paying the professor his full fee, will have the benefit of attending all his classes; and those desiring to attend only the class of Medical Jurisprudence, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars. Provided however, that if the Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence during the next session, cannot be delivered within the regular hours of lecture assigned to the professor; and they should be delivered in extra-hours,—the professor shall be entitled to a fee of fifteen dollars from every student attending these lectures.

Resolved as follows: All the duties originally assigned to the school of Natural history, except those pertaining to Chemistry, having been dispensed with for the present; and Materia Medica & Pharmacy having been assigned to the professor of that school,—it shall hereafter be called the School of Chemistry and Materia Medica. The professor shall be called the Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica. Every student paying his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of attending all his classes, whether of Chemistry or Materia Medica; and any student desiring to attend his class of Materia Medica alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— Every student paying to the professor of Moral Philosophy, his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of all his classes, including that of Political economy; and those desirous of attending the class of Political economy alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— So much of the existing enactments, as requires a deposit of ten dollars to be paid to the bursar, in order to entitle a student to the use of the library; and as requires the librarian to report to the bursar, the fines and damages assessed against students, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.

Every student who shall have matriculated and paid a deposit of ten dollars to the proctor, shall be entitled to the use of the library, upon the terms and under the restrictions prescribed by the enactments.——It shall be the duty of the Librarian to report all fines and damages assessed against a student on account of the library, to the proctor; who shall charge the same to the student and deduct the amount from the deposit in his hands.

Resolved That if at the end of the present year, the number of students boarding at the hotels do not exceed one hundred & seventy five, the hotel keepers shall be reduced to five; and if the number do not exceed one hundred and forty, the number of hotel-keepers shall be reduced to four. And the executive committee are requested to cause the necessary previous notice to be given to such as are to be removed.

Resolved as follows —— The board have considered the letter of Warner W. Minor, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, & dated on the 12th of June; and being of opinion that that letter is written in a very improper spirit, and that the transaction which it vindicates is an obvious breach of the enactments,———they recommend the subject to the attention of the Chairman of the Faculty and the Executive Committee: advising that they shall require a strict conformity with the enactments in this respect; and, in default of such conformity, that they take the proper measures to inflict the penalties, and apply the necessary corrective.

The Board then adjourned to the second Monday in December next.

Nicho. Ph: Trist

Secy.

The following was the annual report this year made to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the law requiring that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia should make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, (to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting,) embracing a full account of the disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the condition of said University, the Rector and Visitors make the following REPORT:

With a view to the provision requiring an annual visitation of the University, for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the students, it was determined at their meeting in December last, to hold their next session in July, the period fixed for the summer public examination. This meeting took place, and lasted ten days, during which the board were occupied in attending the examination, inspecting the institution, and discharging the other duties confided to them. As the result, they have the satisfaction to state a marked improvement in the economy of the institution, and in the habits of the students; and as a consequence of this, in the degree wherein they appear to have availed themselves of the advantages held out by the able Professors whose services the University is so fortunate in possessing. On this subject, there is little else to wish, than a continuance of the good order which has distinguished the last session, and the invigorated application promised by the growing taste for the pursuits to which such strong inducements are here presented, and by the vigilance which there is very ground to expect from the Faculty in giving effect to the prescribed regulations. The remark made on the last examination, is still applicable at this: the only marks of attainment and distinction as yet conferred, consist in the statement of the Faculty which accompanies this report. It is hoped, that the next examination, the honor of degrees will, in some instances, be aspired to.

The first act of the Board was the acceptance of the resignation of Mr. Key, the professor of Mathematics. Although the vacancy created, has, by a translation from the chair of Natural Philosophy, been filled in a manner which leaves nothing to desire in the department of Mathematics, the event cannot but be regretted; as some delay may ensue in restoring the mass of science and ability which had been collected within the walls of the University. A desire to avail the institution still, of the eminent attainments of Professor Bonnycastle in Natural Philosophy; and also to introduce among the branches already taught, one which, for public utility, is in the highest estimation with both scientific and practical judges, has led the Board to make some alterations in the departments of Natural Philosophy and Mathematics. Conforming to the division of the science of Natural Philosophy into the two branches, Mathematical and Experimental; the former of these, designated also, as the Application of Mathematics to Natural Philosophy, has been assigned to the Professor of Mathematics, in addition to the former duties of his chair. The second, namely Pure Physics, or Experimental Natural Philosophy, has been retained by the Professor of Natural Philosophy, on whom will also devolve The application of Physical Science to the Arts; the introduction of which is thought to offer peculiar advantages to a country possessing, like our, such numerous sources of wealth, which require, for their development, an adequate knowledge and skill only, and the enterprise that would be awakened by them. This Chair, the Board have now to fill. In the mean time, Professor Bonnycastle has consented to discharge its duties.

With a view to the greater efficiency of the Medical department, some modifications have been made in that also. To the branches hitherto prescribed to be taught therein, have been added Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence; and, of the aggregate, the following distribution has been made. To the Professor of Medicine, heretofore denominated the Professor of Anatomy and Medicine, have been assigned the history of the progress and theories of Medicine, Physiology, Pathology, Obstetricks, and Medical Jurisprudence. Materia Medica, with Pharmacy, have been committed to the Professor of Chemistry. For the remaining branches, Anatomy and Surgery, the office has been created, of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery, with a salary of five hundred dollars, a fee of fifteen dollars, and an allowance of a dwelling. His duties will consist in delivering lectures on Anatomy and Surgery, and in conducting dissections and demonstrations. The apartment in the Anatomical theatre destined for these purposes, will be completed early in the next session, commencing on the first of September; and there is no room for apprehending a want of subjects. Under this organisation, the department is considered fully adequate to the formation of members of the medical profession; and the Board flatter themselves, that experience will speedily demonstrate the advantage of resorting hither for instruction on this subject, as well as those which already attract large classes.

Under the numerous subdivions to which the daily increasing expansion of the sciences has rendered if necessary to bring them, the branches comprised in the department of Natural History, have been found too various and extensive to be all attended to, in a complete manner, by a single professor. For the present, therefore, it has been deemed advisable to curtail the duties of this chair to the single branch of Chemistry; adding thereto, as is stated above, the kindred subjects, Materia Medica and Pharmacy.

A slight alteration has been made in the periods of commencing and closing the sessions of the University. These now begin on the first of September and terminate on the 20th of July; and the recess in December remains unchanged. The tenth of July has been appointed for the commencement of the summer examination; and also for the regular annual session of this Board.

The number of students matriculated during the session, is one hundred and eighteen: the state of the schools being as follows:

That the number seeking the advantages in education held out by the University, is not greater, the Board are persuaded is to be ascribed to the well known causes so universally and materially abridging the current resources of our fellow citizens.

In pursuance of the authority vested in them by an act of the last legislature, for borrowing twenty five thousand dollars; the Board have, at this session, negotiated a loan for twenty thousand dollars; a sum which it is estimated will be sufficient to pay the existing debts, complete the buildings and provide some articles of primary necessity to their preservation and security. The accounts for the receipts, disbursements and funds on hand, up to the tenth day of July 1827, as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor, are given with this report, agreeably to the requisition of the law.

Thursday, July 19. The board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved that the Bursar of the University be authorised to borrow from Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee of Mrs Martha Randolph, a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, at an interest of six per centum, per annum, payable semi-annually, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond.

For the money so borrowed, a stock shall be created, irredeemable for twenty years, and afterwards redeemable as shall be expressed in the certificates hereby directed to be issued.

For each sum of five hundred dollars so borrowed, a certificate shall be issued to the lender, signed by the Rector and countersigned by the Bursar, under the seal of the University; to the effect following:

The Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia, owe to Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee for Mrs Martha Randolph, the sum of five hundred dollars, for so much money borrowed of him, pursuant to an act of the General assembly, passed on the    day of      , entitled            which sum they promise and oblige themselves and their successors to pay or cause to be paid to the said trustee, his executors, administators or assigns, at the expiration of \[twenty years\] from this date, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond, together with six per centum, per annum, interest thereon, payable at the said office, on the 1st day of January and the first day of July, in each year.

In testimony whereof, We, the Rector & Bursar of the said University, acting under a resolution of the board, passed on the 19th of July 1827, have hereunto set our hands and caused the seal of the University to be affixed, this    day of      , in the year Eighteen hundred and

Memorandum — Though the principal sum appearing due by the within certificate, cannot be demanded by the holder till the time at which it is made payable within, yet it will be at the pleasure of the Rector & Visitors to pay the sum at any earlier period, after the expiration of twenty years from the date.

Given under my hand, this    day of      , eighteen hundred and

Antient Languages

53.

Anatomy & Medicine

16

Modern Languages

59.

Moral Philosophy

12

Mathematics

62

Law

18.

Natural Philosophy

24

Medical Jurisprudence

20.

Natural History

38.

Pursuant to the said memorandum, this board retains the full power of paying the principal sum which shall be due on each certificate, at any time after the expiration of twenty years from its date, although it may be made payable, on the face of the certificate, at a later period.

For the payment of the interest, and redemption of the principal of the loan hereby authorised, the board pledges the annuity of the University payable from the Literary fund.

The money borrowed in pursuance of this resolution, shall be applied to the payment of the debts of the University, due & to become due; to the finishing of its buildings; to supplying water to the University, and purchasing a fire engine & hose.

The celebration of the anniversary of Independence & of Washington's birthday, in a manner becoming a literary institution, is reconmended to the Professors & students, as a duty worthy of constant observance. But no festivities which naturally lead to excess, are admissible on the occasion. Public dinners therefore, are strictly prohibited; though a ball or other evening party attended by professors & students, having its pleasures chastened by the company of ladies, is allowed, under such regulations as the faculty may prescribe.

The celebration most appropriate to a University, must blend literature & science with the indulgence of patriotic feeling.

The board therefore recommend for the fourth of July, the reading of the Declaration of Independence, with suitable solemnities; orations, on the day and on other subjects, historical, literary and scientific— to be spoken or read, under the regulation of the faculty. They recommend that the subjects of composition shall be given to the students, a suitable time before hand; — that each student who pleases, compose an oration or write a discussion, on such as he may select; — that these compositions, with the name of the author sealed, be submitted to the faculty, for their inspection & criticism; — that such as are deemed proper to be publicly read or spoken, have their seals broken and be returned to their authors, for the purpose of being read or spoken; and that those which may not be deemed proper for public exhibition, be returned to their authors, with the seals unbroken.

For the 22d February, they recommend, under similar regulations, compositions on subjects illustrating the life and character of Washington, and other suitable subjects; to be publicly read or spoken, as may be deemed proper by the faculty.

Resolved that Martin Dawson be authorised & desired to examine and settle the accounts of the Proctor since the period of the last examination and settlement: And that J. H. Cocke & J. C. Cabell, or either of them, be a committee to examine & settle in like manner, the accounts of the Bursar.

Resolved that, from the commencement of the session, till the last of April, the hours of lecture shall commence at half after seven, & follow in the succession heretofore prescribed, till half after one; when there shall be an interval of one hour, for dinner, so as to postpone the last prescribed lecture to the hours between half after two and half after four O'clock.

From the last of April till the end of the session, the lectures shall commence at half after five in the morning; and continue till half after seven. Then allowing half an hour for breakfast, shall commence at eight, and continue in regular succession, each occupying two hours, till two O'clock in the afternoon.

The days for lectures in the several schools, and the order in which they will succeed each other, shall be as heretofore prescribed by this board.

Resolved that in every instance in which an infraction of any regulation on the part of a student, comes under the notice of a professor, it shall be his special duty to make an official report of the case to the Chairman.

Resolved that, in addition to the examinations already required, it shall be the duty of the Professors of the University, to prescribe to the students in their respective classes, frequent & regular themes, adapted to their previous acquirements, and calculated to develope and strengthen their mental faculties.

Resolved that, on the subject of publishing the names of the students with reference to their proficiency in their classes, the board refer it to the more deliberate consideration of the faculty whether they will make any publication in the newspapers at all.

If any such publication should be thought expedient, the board earnestly recommend it to the faculty, to publish only the names of a few preeminently distinguished, in each class; exceeding, in no class, either five in number, or one fifth of the whole.

They approve the classification of the whole number of students, as proposed by the faculty, so as to ascertain their relative proficiency. But they recommend that that classification shall be no farther used than to be laid before the Visitors, and to enable the chairman to communicate to each parent & guardian, the standing of his own son & ward,——without informing him of the standing of any other student in the class.

Resolved that the annual salary now paid to the Janitor be hereby augmented by twenty five dollars.

Resolved that the letter of Dr Emmet of July 10th, and the account of the Mutual Assurance Society, be referred to the Executive committee, to be acted upon by them, as may be found expedient.

Resolved that, in answer to the letters of Mr Egan, the secretary is requested to inform him that, while the visitors feel interested in the prosperity of his school, & would cheerfully, if they could, contribute to its success; they do not consider themselves justified in recognising a connexion between it and the University, or in acceding to Mr Egan's request, by relaxing the laws which have been enacted for the government of their library.

Resolved that the regular session of the Rector and Visitors of the University, shall hereafter be held annually on the 10th day of July; or, if that be Sunday, on the next day: and be continued at the discretion of the board.

Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty shall be authorised to employ a suitable person to work the Lithographic press, when required by the Professors of the University; and to attend the professors of Natural Philosophy & Chemistry, in their lecture rooms & in the Laboratory.

The person thus employed shall receive as a compensation for his services a sum not exceeding one hundred & twenty dollars per annum; and shall be removable at any time, at the pleasure of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved that William Matthews, the Military Instructor, be authorised to have the use of the Library, on the same terms and conditions as if he were a student, so long as he may reside within the precincts of the University.

Resolved, that no student, without permission of the faculty, shall leave any class which he may have entered, or leave the University before the end of the session. And if any shall offend herein, he shall be subject to any of the major or minor punishments, or may be refused admission into the University, at the next session, at the discretion of the Faculty.

Resolved That the school hitherto denominated the school of Anatomy and Medicine, shall be hereafter called The School of Medicine; the professor thereof shall be called The Professor of Medicine; and there shall be taught therein, in addition to what is now required, Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence.

Students paying the professor his full fee, will have the benefit of attending all his classes; and those desiring to attend only the class of Medical Jurisprudence, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars. Provided however, that if the Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence during the next session, cannot be delivered within the regular hours of lecture assigned to the professor; and they should be delivered in extra-hours,—the professor shall be entitled to a fee of fifteen dollars from every student attending these lectures.

Resolved as follows: All the duties originally assigned to the school of Natural history, except those pertaining to Chemistry, having been dispensed with for the present; and Materia Medica & Pharmacy having been assigned to the professor of that school,—it shall hereafter be called the School of Chemistry and Materia Medica. The professor shall be called the Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica. Every student paying his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of attending all his classes, whether of Chemistry or Materia Medica; and any student desiring to attend his class of Materia Medica alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— Every student paying to the professor of Moral Philosophy, his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of all his classes, including that of Political economy; and those desirous of attending the class of Political economy alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— So much of the existing enactments, as requires a deposit of ten dollars to be paid to the bursar, in order to entitle a student to the use of the library; and as requires the librarian to report to the bursar, the fines and damages assessed against students, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.

Every student who shall have matriculated and paid a deposit of ten dollars to the proctor, shall be entitled to the use of the library, upon the terms and under the restrictions prescribed by the enactments.——It shall be the duty of the Librarian to report all fines and damages assessed against a student on account of the library, to the proctor; who shall charge the same to the student and deduct the amount from the deposit in his hands.

Resolved That if at the end of the present year, the number of students boarding at the hotels do not exceed one hundred & seventy five, the hotel keepers shall be reduced to five; and if the number do not exceed one hundred and forty, the number of hotel-keepers shall be reduced to four. And the executive committee are requested to cause the necessary previous notice to be given to such as are to be removed.

Resolved as follows —— The board have considered the letter of Warner W. Minor, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, & dated on the 12th of June; and being of opinion that that letter is written in a very improper spirit, and that the transaction which it vindicates is an obvious breach of the enactments,———they recommend the subject to the attention of the Chairman of the Faculty and the Executive Committee: advising that they shall require a strict conformity with the enactments in this respect; and, in default of such conformity, that they take the proper measures to inflict the penalties, and apply the necessary corrective.

The Board then adjourned to the second Monday in December next.

Nicho. Ph: Trist

Secy.

The following was the annual report this year made to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the law requiring that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia should make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, (to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting,) embracing a full account of the disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the condition of said University, the Rector and Visitors make the following REPORT:

With a view to the provision requiring an annual visitation of the University, for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the students, it was determined at their meeting in December last, to hold their next session in July, the period fixed for the summer public examination. This meeting took place, and lasted ten days, during which the board were occupied in attending the examination, inspecting the institution, and discharging the other duties confided to them. As the result, they have the satisfaction to state a marked improvement in the economy of the institution, and in the habits of the students; and as a consequence of this, in the degree wherein they appear to have availed themselves of the advantages held out by the able Professors whose services the University is so fortunate in possessing. On this subject, there is little else to wish, than a continuance of the good order which has distinguished the last session, and the invigorated application promised by the growing taste for the pursuits to which such strong inducements are here presented, and by the vigilance which there is very ground to expect from the Faculty in giving effect to the prescribed regulations. The remark made on the last examination, is still applicable at this: the only marks of attainment and distinction as yet conferred, consist in the statement of the Faculty which accompanies this report. It is hoped, that the next examination, the honor of degrees will, in some instances, be aspired to.

The first act of the Board was the acceptance of the resignation of Mr. Key, the professor of Mathematics. Although the vacancy created, has, by a translation from the chair of Natural Philosophy, been filled in a manner which leaves nothing to desire in the department of Mathematics, the event cannot but be regretted; as some delay may ensue in restoring the mass of science and ability which had been collected within the walls of the University. A desire to avail the institution still, of the eminent attainments of Professor Bonnycastle in Natural Philosophy; and also to introduce among the branches already taught, one which, for public utility, is in the highest estimation with both scientific and practical judges, has led the Board to make some alterations in the departments of Natural Philosophy and Mathematics. Conforming to the division of the science of Natural Philosophy into the two branches, Mathematical and Experimental; the former of these, designated also, as the Application of Mathematics to Natural Philosophy, has been assigned to the Professor of Mathematics, in addition to the former duties of his chair. The second, namely Pure Physics, or Experimental Natural Philosophy, has been retained by the Professor of Natural Philosophy, on whom will also devolve The application of Physical Science to the Arts; the introduction of which is thought to offer peculiar advantages to a country possessing, like our, such numerous sources of wealth, which require, for their development, an adequate knowledge and skill only, and the enterprise that would be awakened by them. This Chair, the Board have now to fill. In the mean time, Professor Bonnycastle has consented to discharge its duties.

With a view to the greater efficiency of the Medical department, some modifications have been made in that also. To the branches hitherto prescribed to be taught therein, have been added Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence; and, of the aggregate, the following distribution has been made. To the Professor of Medicine, heretofore denominated the Professor of Anatomy and Medicine, have been assigned the history of the progress and theories of Medicine, Physiology, Pathology, Obstetricks, and Medical Jurisprudence. Materia Medica, with Pharmacy, have been committed to the Professor of Chemistry. For the remaining branches, Anatomy and Surgery, the office has been created, of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery, with a salary of five hundred dollars, a fee of fifteen dollars, and an allowance of a dwelling. His duties will consist in delivering lectures on Anatomy and Surgery, and in conducting dissections and demonstrations. The apartment in the Anatomical theatre destined for these purposes, will be completed early in the next session, commencing on the first of September; and there is no room for apprehending a want of subjects. Under this organisation, the department is considered fully adequate to the formation of members of the medical profession; and the Board flatter themselves, that experience will speedily demonstrate the advantage of resorting hither for instruction on this subject, as well as those which already attract large classes.

Under the numerous subdivions to which the daily increasing expansion of the sciences has rendered if necessary to bring them, the branches comprised in the department of Natural History, have been found too various and extensive to be all attended to, in a complete manner, by a single professor. For the present, therefore, it has been deemed advisable to curtail the duties of this chair to the single branch of Chemistry; adding thereto, as is stated above, the kindred subjects, Materia Medica and Pharmacy.

A slight alteration has been made in the periods of commencing and closing the sessions of the University. These now begin on the first of September and terminate on the 20th of July; and the recess in December remains unchanged. The tenth of July has been appointed for the commencement of the summer examination; and also for the regular annual session of this Board.

The number of students matriculated during the session, is one hundred and eighteen: the state of the schools being as follows:

That the number seeking the advantages in education held out by the University, is not greater, the Board are persuaded is to be ascribed to the well known causes so universally and materially abridging the current resources of our fellow citizens.

In pursuance of the authority vested in them by an act of the last legislature, for borrowing twenty five thousand dollars; the Board have, at this session, negotiated a loan for twenty thousand dollars; a sum which it is estimated will be sufficient to pay the existing debts, complete the buildings and provide some articles of primary necessity to their preservation and security. The accounts for the receipts, disbursements and funds on hand, up to the tenth day of July 1827, as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor, are given with this report, agreeably to the requisition of the law.

Thursday, July 19. The board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved that the Bursar of the University be authorised to borrow from Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee of Mrs Martha Randolph, a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, at an interest of six per centum, per annum, payable semi-annually, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond.

For the money so borrowed, a stock shall be created, irredeemable for twenty years, and afterwards redeemable as shall be expressed in the certificates hereby directed to be issued.

For each sum of five hundred dollars so borrowed, a certificate shall be issued to the lender, signed by the Rector and countersigned by the Bursar, under the seal of the University; to the effect following:

The Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia, owe to Thomas Jefferson Randolph, trustee for Mrs Martha Randolph, the sum of five hundred dollars, for so much money borrowed of him, pursuant to an act of the General assembly, passed on the    day of      , entitled            which sum they promise and oblige themselves and their successors to pay or cause to be paid to the said trustee, his executors, administators or assigns, at the expiration of \[twenty years\] from this date, at the office of the Farmer's bank of Virginia, in Richmond, together with six per centum, per annum, interest thereon, payable at the said office, on the 1st day of January and the first day of July, in each year.

In testimony whereof, We, the Rector & Bursar of the said University, acting under a resolution of the board, passed on the 19th of July 1827, have hereunto set our hands and caused the seal of the University to be affixed, this    day of      , in the year Eighteen hundred and

Memorandum — Though the principal sum appearing due by the within certificate, cannot be demanded by the holder till the time at which it is made payable within, yet it will be at the pleasure of the Rector & Visitors to pay the sum at any earlier period, after the expiration of twenty years from the date.

Given under my hand, this    day of      , eighteen hundred and

Antient Languages

53.

Anatomy & Medicine

16

Modern Languages

59.

Moral Philosophy

12

Mathematics

62

Law

18.

Natural Philosophy

24

Medical Jurisprudence

20.

Natural History

38.

Pursuant to the said memorandum, this board retains the full power of paying the principal sum which shall be due on each certificate, at any time after the expiration of twenty years from its date, although it may be made payable, on the face of the certificate, at a later period.

For the payment of the interest, and redemption of the principal of the loan hereby authorised, the board pledges the annuity of the University payable from the Literary fund.

The money borrowed in pursuance of this resolution, shall be applied to the payment of the debts of the University, due & to become due; to the finishing of its buildings; to supplying water to the University, and purchasing a fire engine & hose.

The celebration of the anniversary of Independence & of Washington's birthday, in a manner becoming a literary institution, is reconmended to the Professors & students, as a duty worthy of constant observance. But no festivities which naturally lead to excess, are admissible on the occasion. Public dinners therefore, are strictly prohibited; though a ball or other evening party attended by professors & students, having its pleasures chastened by the company of ladies, is allowed, under such regulations as the faculty may prescribe.

The celebration most appropriate to a University, must blend literature & science with the indulgence of patriotic feeling.

The board therefore recommend for the fourth of July, the reading of the Declaration of Independence, with suitable solemnities; orations, on the day and on other subjects, historical, literary and scientific— to be spoken or read, under the regulation of the faculty. They recommend that the subjects of composition shall be given to the students, a suitable time before hand; — that each student who pleases, compose an oration or write a discussion, on such as he may select; — that these compositions, with the name of the author sealed, be submitted to the faculty, for their inspection & criticism; — that such as are deemed proper to be publicly read or spoken, have their seals broken and be returned to their authors, for the purpose of being read or spoken; and that those which may not be deemed proper for public exhibition, be returned to their authors, with the seals unbroken.

For the 22d February, they recommend, under similar regulations, compositions on subjects illustrating the life and character of Washington, and other suitable subjects; to be publicly read or spoken, as may be deemed proper by the faculty.

Resolved that Martin Dawson be authorised & desired to examine and settle the accounts of the Proctor since the period of the last examination and settlement: And that J. H. Cocke & J. C. Cabell, or either of them, be a committee to examine & settle in like manner, the accounts of the Bursar.

Resolved that, from the commencement of the session, till the last of April, the hours of lecture shall commence at half after seven, & follow in the succession heretofore prescribed, till half after one; when there shall be an interval of one hour, for dinner, so as to postpone the last prescribed lecture to the hours between half after two and half after four O'clock.

From the last of April till the end of the session, the lectures shall commence at half after five in the morning; and continue till half after seven. Then allowing half an hour for breakfast, shall commence at eight, and continue in regular succession, each occupying two hours, till two O'clock in the afternoon.

The days for lectures in the several schools, and the order in which they will succeed each other, shall be as heretofore prescribed by this board.

Resolved that in every instance in which an infraction of any regulation on the part of a student, comes under the notice of a professor, it shall be his special duty to make an official report of the case to the Chairman.

Resolved that, in addition to the examinations already required, it shall be the duty of the Professors of the University, to prescribe to the students in their respective classes, frequent & regular themes, adapted to their previous acquirements, and calculated to develope and strengthen their mental faculties.

Resolved that, on the subject of publishing the names of the students with reference to their proficiency in their classes, the board refer it to the more deliberate consideration of the faculty whether they will make any publication in the newspapers at all.

If any such publication should be thought expedient, the board earnestly recommend it to the faculty, to publish only the names of a few preeminently distinguished, in each class; exceeding, in no class, either five in number, or one fifth of the whole.

They approve the classification of the whole number of students, as proposed by the faculty, so as to ascertain their relative proficiency. But they recommend that that classification shall be no farther used than to be laid before the Visitors, and to enable the chairman to communicate to each parent & guardian, the standing of his own son & ward,——without informing him of the standing of any other student in the class.

Resolved that the annual salary now paid to the Janitor be hereby augmented by twenty five dollars.

Resolved that the letter of Dr Emmet of July 10th, and the account of the Mutual Assurance Society, be referred to the Executive committee, to be acted upon by them, as may be found expedient.

Resolved that, in answer to the letters of Mr Egan, the secretary is requested to inform him that, while the visitors feel interested in the prosperity of his school, & would cheerfully, if they could, contribute to its success; they do not consider themselves justified in recognising a connexion between it and the University, or in acceding to Mr Egan's request, by relaxing the laws which have been enacted for the government of their library.

Resolved that the regular session of the Rector and Visitors of the University, shall hereafter be held annually on the 10th day of July; or, if that be Sunday, on the next day: and be continued at the discretion of the board.

Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty shall be authorised to employ a suitable person to work the Lithographic press, when required by the Professors of the University; and to attend the professors of Natural Philosophy & Chemistry, in their lecture rooms & in the Laboratory.

The person thus employed shall receive as a compensation for his services a sum not exceeding one hundred & twenty dollars per annum; and shall be removable at any time, at the pleasure of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved that William Matthews, the Military Instructor, be authorised to have the use of the Library, on the same terms and conditions as if he were a student, so long as he may reside within the precincts of the University.

Resolved, that no student, without permission of the faculty, shall leave any class which he may have entered, or leave the University before the end of the session. And if any shall offend herein, he shall be subject to any of the major or minor punishments, or may be refused admission into the University, at the next session, at the discretion of the Faculty.

Resolved That the school hitherto denominated the school of Anatomy and Medicine, shall be hereafter called The School of Medicine; the professor thereof shall be called The Professor of Medicine; and there shall be taught therein, in addition to what is now required, Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence.

Students paying the professor his full fee, will have the benefit of attending all his classes; and those desiring to attend only the class of Medical Jurisprudence, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars. Provided however, that if the Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence during the next session, cannot be delivered within the regular hours of lecture assigned to the professor; and they should be delivered in extra-hours,—the professor shall be entitled to a fee of fifteen dollars from every student attending these lectures.

Resolved as follows: All the duties originally assigned to the school of Natural history, except those pertaining to Chemistry, having been dispensed with for the present; and Materia Medica & Pharmacy having been assigned to the professor of that school,—it shall hereafter be called the School of Chemistry and Materia Medica. The professor shall be called the Professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica. Every student paying his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of attending all his classes, whether of Chemistry or Materia Medica; and any student desiring to attend his class of Materia Medica alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— Every student paying to the professor of Moral Philosophy, his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of all his classes, including that of Political economy; and those desirous of attending the class of Political economy alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved as follows —— So much of the existing enactments, as requires a deposit of ten dollars to be paid to the bursar, in order to entitle a student to the use of the library; and as requires the librarian to report to the bursar, the fines and damages assessed against students, shall be, and the same is hereby repealed.

Every student who shall have matriculated and paid a deposit of ten dollars to the proctor, shall be entitled to the use of the library, upon the terms and under the restrictions prescribed by the enactments.——It shall be the duty of the Librarian to report all fines and damages assessed against a student on account of the library, to the proctor; who shall charge the same to the student and deduct the amount from the deposit in his hands.

Resolved That if at the end of the present year, the number of students boarding at the hotels do not exceed one hundred & seventy five, the hotel keepers shall be reduced to five; and if the number do not exceed one hundred and forty, the number of hotel-keepers shall be reduced to four. And the executive committee are requested to cause the necessary previous notice to be given to such as are to be removed.

Resolved as follows —— The board have considered the letter of Warner W. Minor, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, & dated on the 12th of June; and being of opinion that that letter is written in a very improper spirit, and that the transaction which it vindicates is an obvious breach of the enactments,———they recommend the subject to the attention of the Chairman of the Faculty and the Executive Committee: advising that they shall require a strict conformity with the enactments in this respect; and, in default of such conformity, that they take the proper measures to inflict the penalties, and apply the necessary corrective.

The Board then adjourned to the second Monday in December next.

Nicho. Ph: Trist

Secy.

The following was the annual report this year made to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the law requiring that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia should make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, (to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting,) embracing a full account of the disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the condition of said University, the Rector and Visitors make the following REPORT:

With a view to the provision requiring an annual visitation of the University, for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the students, it was determined at their meeting in December last, to hold their next session in July, the period fixed for the summer public examination. This meeting took place, and lasted ten days, during which the board were occupied in attending the examination, inspecting the institution, and discharging the other duties confided to them. As the result, they have the satisfaction to state a marked improvement in the economy of the institution, and in the habits of the students; and as a consequence of this, in the degree wherein they appear to have availed themselves of the advantages held out by the able Professors whose services the University is so fortunate in possessing. On this subject, there is little else to wish, than a continuance of the good order which has distinguished the last session, and the invigorated application promised by the growing taste for the pursuits to which such strong inducements are here presented, and by the vigilance which there is very ground to expect from the Faculty in giving effect to the prescribed regulations. The remark made on the last examination, is still applicable at this: the only marks of attainment and distinction as yet conferred, consist in the statement of the Faculty which accompanies this report. It is hoped, that the next examination, the honor of degrees will, in some instances, be aspired to.

The first act of the Board was the acceptance of the resignation of Mr. Key, the professor of Mathematics. Although the vacancy created, has, by a translation from the chair of Natural Philosophy, been filled in a manner which leaves nothing to desire in the department of Mathematics, the event cannot but be regretted; as some delay may ensue in restoring the mass of science and ability which had been collected within the walls of the University. A desire to avail the institution still, of the eminent attainments of Professor Bonnycastle in Natural Philosophy; and also to introduce among the branches already taught, one which, for public utility, is in the highest estimation with both scientific and practical judges, has led the Board to make some alterations in the departments of Natural Philosophy and Mathematics. Conforming to the division of the science of Natural Philosophy into the two branches, Mathematical and Experimental; the former of these, designated also, as the Application of Mathematics to Natural Philosophy, has been assigned to the Professor of Mathematics, in addition to the former duties of his chair. The second, namely Pure Physics, or Experimental Natural Philosophy, has been retained by the Professor of Natural Philosophy, on whom will also devolve The application of Physical Science to the Arts; the introduction of which is thought to offer peculiar advantages to a country possessing, like our, such numerous sources of wealth, which require, for their development, an adequate knowledge and skill only, and the enterprise that would be awakened by them. This Chair, the Board have now to fill. In the mean time, Professor Bonnycastle has consented to discharge its duties.

With a view to the greater efficiency of the Medical department, some modifications have been made in that also. To the branches hitherto prescribed to be taught therein, have been added Obstetricks and Medical Jurisprudence; and, of the aggregate, the following distribution has been made. To the Professor of Medicine, heretofore denominated the Professor of Anatomy and Medicine, have been assigned the history of the progress and theories of Medicine, Physiology, Pathology, Obstetricks, and Medical Jurisprudence. Materia Medica, with Pharmacy, have been committed to the Professor of Chemistry. For the remaining branches, Anatomy and Surgery, the office has been created, of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery, with a salary of five hundred dollars, a fee of fifteen dollars, and an allowance of a dwelling. His duties will consist in delivering lectures on Anatomy and Surgery, and in conducting dissections and demonstrations. The apartment in the Anatomical theatre destined for these purposes, will be completed early in the next session, commencing on the first of September; and there is no room for apprehending a want of subjects. Under this organisation, the department is considered fully adequate to the formation of members of the medical profession; and the Board flatter themselves, that experience will speedily demonstrate the advantage of resorting hither for instruction on this subject, as well as those which already attract large classes.

Under the numerous subdivions to which the daily increasing expansion of the sciences has rendered if necessary to bring them, the branches comprised in the department of Natural History, have been found too various and extensive to be all attended to, in a complete manner, by a single professor. For the present, therefore, it has been deemed advisable to curtail the duties of this chair to the single branch of Chemistry; adding thereto, as is stated above, the kindred subjects, Materia Medica and Pharmacy.

A slight alteration has been made in the periods of commencing and closing the sessions of the University. These now begin on the first of September and terminate on the 20th of July; and the recess in December remains unchanged. The tenth of July has been appointed for the commencement of the summer examination; and also for the regular annual session of this Board.

The number of students matriculated during the session, is one hundred and eighteen: the state of the schools being as follows:

That the number seeking the advantages in education held out by the University, is not greater, the Board are persuaded is to be ascribed to the well known causes so universally and materially abridging the current resources of our fellow citizens.

In pursuance of the authority vested in them by an act of the last legislature, for borrowing twenty five thousand dollars; the Board have, at this session, negotiated a loan for twenty thousand dollars; a sum which it is estimated will be sufficient to pay the existing debts, complete the buildings and provide some articles of primary necessity to their preservation and security. The accounts for the receipts, disbursements and funds on hand, up to the tenth day of July 1827, as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor, are given with this report, agreeably to the requisition of the law.
