---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1828'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
At a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, held at the University on the tenth day of July 1828, at which were present, James Madison, rector, James Monroe, James Breckenridge, Chapman Johnson, John H. Cocke and William C. Rives.

Various letters from, and recommendations of, candidates for the Professorships of Antient Languages and of Natural Philosophy, were taken into consideration.

Under the resolution to that effect, passed at the meeting in July 1827, three reports were handed in, from the chairman of the Faculty during the period of the session ending in December 1827.

In the afternoon, the Board attended the examination.

Friday, July 11. The Board met, present the same as yesterday, with the addition of Joseph C. Cabell.

The forenoon was employed in attending the examination, and in reading various communications & testimonials concerning applicants for the Professorships of Antient Languages & Natural Philosophy.

Agreeably to the resolution to that effect, passed at the meeting in July 1827, Joseph C. Cabell, John H. Cocke and William C. Rives were appointed a committee to examine & report to the Board, the state and condition of the library, &c &c.

The following resolution was adopted: Resolved That the account of the Editors of the Virginia Advocate, be referred to the Proctor, to be adjusted and settled, in the usual mode; and that the amount found due, be paid out of any monies in the hands of the Bursar, not otherwise appropriated.

In the afternoon, the Board again attended the examination.

Saturday, July 12. The Board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved That James Monroe & John H. Cocke compose a committee for the purpose of examining and reporting on, the minutes of the Faculty proceedings.

Resolved That Chapman Johnson & W. C. Rives compose a committee for the purpose of enquiring into & reporting on the state of the Funds.

Resolved as follows: Professor Long having received an appointment in the London University, and tendered his resignation of the Chair of Antient Languages in the University of Virginia, that resignation is accepted.

In consenting to relinquish the valuable services of Mr Long the Visitors are sensible of the great loss which the Institution under their care, will thereby sustain. But they would not properly estimate their obligation to this distinguished Professor, for the faithful and able discharge of his duties, if they insisted on taining him against his will, or opposed any obstacle to his pursuit of a more eligible situation in his native Country. Nor would they act with becoming liberality towards a sister Institution, if they did not feel some consolation in the reflection that what is lost to the cause of science here, will be gained to a Seminary which promises no ordinary usefulness in the great work of instructing the rising generation and extending the limits of human knowledge.

The Secretary is requested to communicate this order to Professor Long, as an evidence that his resignation is accepted, that the loss of his services is deeply regretted, and that the best wishes of the Board attend him.

The account of the Bursar was handed in.

Monday, July 14. The Board met, present the same as on Saturday.

After reading some communications addressed to them, the Board took into consideration, the question of attending the Convention to be held this day in Charlottesville, on the subject of the Internal Improvement of the State; and having decided on being present at the organisation of the Body, they proceeded to Charlottesville for the purpose.

In the afternoon, the Board attended the examination of the Students.

The accounts of the Proctor were handed in.

The following resolutions were adopted:

The application of the Librarian, for leave to occupy a vacant hotel, is referred to the Proctor, who will act upon it according to his discretion; so as, however, to reserve full power to resume the building whenever it may be required for the purposes of the Institution.

The Salary of the Professor of Natural Philosophy shall be hereafter, one thousand dollars per annum, payable quarterly out of the annuity drawn from the Literary Fund.

The Professor of Natural Philosophy shall perform the duties which pertain to the Observatory, and shall receive as compensation therefor, the additional sum of five hundred dollars per annum, payable in like manner.

Resolved That Doctor Robert M. Patterson of Philadelphia, be appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy.

Tuesday, July 15. In the intervals of their attendance as members of the Convention in Charlottesville, the Board met, and attended occasionally on the examination.

Wednesday, July 16. This day was spent in a similar manner to the preceding.

Thursday, July 17. The same remark applies to this.

Friday, July 18. In the intervals of the meetings of the Convention, the Board met and passed the following resolutions.

Resolved That Mr Monroe & Mr Johnson be a committee charged with the duty of preparing during the recess of the Board of Visitors, and of reporting to them at their next meeting, a plan of Executive government for the University.

After the expiration of the term of service of the present Chairman of the Faculty, no other election of Chairman shall be made in the manner now required by the enactments; and until the farther order of the Board, that officer shall be annually appointed from among the Professors, by the Visitors of the University.

Saturday, July 19. The Board attended the Convention, and no business was done by them in relation to the University.

Monday, July 21. The Board met, present James Madison, rector, James Monroe, James Breckenridge, Chapman Johnson, Joseph C. Cabell, John H. Cocke and William C. Rives.

Resolved as follows: The recess of all the schools commencing on the 15th and terminating on the 31st of December, in each year, as provided for by the enactment of October 1826, having been found injurious in practice;—Therefore resolved that so much of the said enactment as provides for such recess shall be & the same is repealed—and that hereafter the public examination which was required to precede the winter recess, shall be had at such convenient time, near the middle of the session, as the Faculty shall appoint.

Resolved as follows: Mr Ferron's letter is referred to the Faculty, who are authorized, if they think it expedient, to assign him such place & hours, for his lessons in fencing, as may be proper.

Resolved——The Visitors have had under consideration the subject referred to them by the Faculty, involving the conduct of the Student

Tucker, in the lecture room of Dr Blaettermann; and deem it inexpedient to depart from the principle of the enactments which give to the Faculty the power of punishing offences, and reserve to the Visitors the power only of approving or disapproving sentences of expulsion: And, though they justly appreciate the motives of delicacy which induced the Faculty to refer this subject to them, they must decline pronouncing any judgment on the conduct of the Student. But they would on every occasion, solemnly enjoin on the Students, as essential to their own welfare, and the character of the institution, the utmost deference and respect for the professors; in the confidence that the professors will entitle themselves to that deference & respect, by the dignity of their deportment, & especially by avoiding all personal collision with the Students and all personal violence towards them.

Tuesday, July 22. The Board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved That if Dr Patterson should decline the appointment of Professor of Natural Philosophy, the Rector shall be authorised to offer it to William Ritchie, rector of the Academy of Tain in Scotland; —that in making this offer, he be required not to annex the duties of the Observatory, and the compensation provided therefor, unless that be necessary to induce an acceptance of the appointment.

Resolved That the Proctor, under the control of the executive committee, erect such building, for the accommodation of Servants, in the tenement occupied by Doct. Dunglison, as may be deemed suitable; the cost whereof shall not exceed $150 ——— and that a sum not exceeding $150 be applied, under the direction of the Executive committee, to provide accommodation for Servants in the tenement occupied by Doct. Emmet.

Resolved That a manuscript volume containing reports of cases of the Old General Court, this day delivered to the Board by Nicholas P. Trist, pursuant to the request of the author, as explained in Mr Trist's letter of this date, be deposited in the Library of the University, to be there preserved, subject, however, to any claim which may be preferred thereto by the executor of Mr Jefferson.

Resolved That if the Executor of Mr Jefferson have no claim thereto, Mr Trist shall be at liberty to take a copy of this volume and publish it, for the purposes in his letter mentioned.

Wednesday, July 25. The Board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved That the Sum of Two hundred and twenty five dollars be appropriated for the purpose of repairing the exterior coverings of the dormitories of the University.

Resolved That the Executive committee be authorized to take off a part of the exterior covering from the lower range of dormitories, to ascertain experimentally the effect of that covering on the rooflets.

Resolved That in future, the sessions of the University shall commence on the 10th of September, & terminate on the twentieth of July ensuing.

Resolved That the Secretary of the Board be authorized to procure a press for the seal of the University; and that the Proctor pay the bill for the same, when presented.

The Committee appointed on the 11th instant to examine & report to the Board, the State and condition of the Library, the Philosophical & Chemical Apparatus, &c &c; which Committee adopted the title of "Committee of Inspection," made their report.

Whereupon it was resolved as follows: The Report of the Committee of Inspection being approved by the Board, and they preferring to locate the cistern therein mentioned, near the Proctor's house, as recommended by him, — Therefore Resolved, That the Executive committee be charged with the execution of the several recommendations contained in the said report, so far as it may be practicable & consistent with other resolutions adopted by the Board.

The Committee appointed on the 12. inst. to enquire into & report on, the state of the Funds, made a report & submitted sundry resolutions, which were adopted, as follows:

Resolved That two of the laboring hands now employed by the Proctor, be dispensed with, the ensuing year, unless the executive committee shall deem their services indispensable.

Resolved That the Proctor be required, in lieu of the present Janitor and Attendant on the Lithographic press, to employ a suitable person, at a salary not exceeding $200, to be called the Janitor, but to be charged with the duties now belonging to both these officers, and with the additional duty of winding up, and attending to, the clock, Keeping in order & repairing the chemical and philosophical apparatus. The person so employed, finding himself all supplies, except a house & firewood, to be furnished by the Proctor.

Resolved That the application of the Professors for books for their several departments, be referred to the Executive committee, to be acted on as they deem expedient; and that they be authorized, if they think it proper, to draw on the sterling fund, in London, to supply any deficiency of funds here.

Resolved That a Sum not exceeding seven hundred and fifty dollars, be appropriated under the direction of the Executive committee, to cover the expenses of printing, stationary, articles for the dispensary, chemical laboratory, Lithographic press, Anatomical and surgical department.

Resolved That the enactments prescribing a uniform, limiting pocket money, and other expenses, restraining the contracting of debts by Students, and requiring them to deposit their funds with the Proctor, should be rigorously enforced, by the several means indicated in this report, and by such others as the executive committee, the chairman, and the Faculty may, in their several departments, find practicable.

Resolved That after the expiration of the present year, the Hotel-keepers shall furnish the students boarding with them, all the supplies now required, except fuel & candles; and instead of the board now allowed, they shall be entitled, from each student, to compensation after the rate of one hundred dollars for the session, payable monthly as at present.

To indemnify the hotel-keepers against all injuries to their furniture, proceeding from the Students, the Proctor, whenever required by any hotel-keeper, shall assess a fair compensation for any such injury, subject, however, to the final Judgment of the Faculty, on appeal to them by either party;——— and retaining the sum so assessed, out of the pocket money of the student in his hands, or if there be no pocket moeny, then, out of such other money of the Student as is not otherwise specially appropriated,——shall pay it over to the hotel-keeper.

Resolved That it shall be the Proctor's duty to furnish the students with fuel and candles, at prime cost and charges, adding only 5 per cent thereon, as a compensation for his risk and trouble. He shall purchase supplies, on the best terms, in large quantities, at the most convenient seasons, and shall deliver them to the Students at their respective dormitories, the wood sawed in proper lengths for their fire places. He shall keep a regular account of the supplies to each, and retain the amount out of the Student's money deposited in his hands. To enable him the more conveniently to execute this duty, a fit woodyard may be provided at the expense of the University, under the direction of the executive committee.

Thursday, July 24. The Board met, present the same as yesterday.

Resolved as follows: When the Professor of Law shall establish a class for the Study of Government and General Politics, every student paying to him his full fee, shall be entitled to the benefit of all his classes;——and those desirous of attending the class of government and general politics alone, shall be allowed to attend that, on the payment of a fee of fifteen dollars.

Resolved That the Rector be authorized to appoint to the chair of Antient Languages, for the term of one year from the date of such appointment, with a salary not exceeding $1000, and with the usual fees paid to that chair,——either of the following persons, they being preferred by the Board in the order herein named; that is to say: Dr Gessner Harrison, M. L. Tracie, R. Reynolds; and if neither of them will accept such appointment, then that he be authorized in like manner to appoint such other person as shall be approved by the executive committee or a majority of the Visitors: and that the Rector be requested to open a correspondence in Europe and elsewhere, with a view to obtain a fit person to fill the chair permanently.

A communication having been received from the Proctor, under date of the 12th inst. on the subject of an account of the Editors of the Virginia Advocate,

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors see no sufficient reason for giving a preference to the debts for Venitian blinds mentioned in that communication, over the one due to the Editors of the Advocate; and that the original order of the Board, in relation to the payment of that debt, remain unrevoked.

Resolved That Professor Dunglison be appointed chairman of the Faculty, from and after the expiration of the term of service of the present chairman, till the end of the next session.

Resolved That the printing and communication of the questions propounded to the schools at the public examination, as recommended by the Faculty, is committed to their discretion.

Resolved That the Executive committee be charged with endeavoring, by a contract with the bookseller of the University, to secure to the Students a regular supply of books at moderate prices; and that, in the event of a refusal on his part, to enter into such an arrangement, they be authorized to take such other measures as to them may seem best calculated to effect the object.

Resolved That the Proctor, under the direction of the chairman of the Faculty, cause a suitable advertisement to be inserted in such newspapers in different portions of the United States, as may be designated by the chairman of the Faculty, announcing the commencement and duration of the next session of the University, its expenses, the extent & course of instruction given in it, and such other particulars as may be calculated to invite the public attention to it. —— And that a similar publication shall hereafter be annually made, immediately after the close of the session.

Resolved as follows: The bell shall be rung every morning throughout the session, at dawn: The Students shall rise at this signal & dress themselves without delay. —— Their rooms shall be cleaned and set in order, and they prepared for business, at sun-rise; at which time, the Proctor shall, at least once a week, inspect their apartments and see that they are in proper order.

The bell shall be again rung at 10 O'clock at night, by which time, at least, the Students shall retire to rest; and after which time, perfect quiet shall be maintained within the precincts, and no light shall be kept burning, in any dormitory, unless in case of sickness, or by special leave of the chairman. It shall be the duty of the Proctor to see that the lights are extinguished accordingly. He shall scrupulously report all breaches of this enactment to the chairman; and any Student who shall violate it, shall be subject to any of the minor or major punishments. Any hotel-Keeper who shall fail to have the room of a Student put in order, according to the provisions of this enactment, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding five dollars for each offence, to be assessed by the Faculty, and retained out of the Students' board.

Resolved as follows: The chairman of the Faculty shall keep a regular journal of his proceedings, to be, at all times, open to the inspection of the Executive committee, and to be laid before the Visitors at their meetings.

He shall note thereon all informations of irregularity or breaches of duty by Students or others connected with the University, which shall be laid before him; and the measures taken by him in consequence.

The Board then adjourned to the first day of October next.
