---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1833'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1833) October 2, 1833
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 2, 1833

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

9 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Visitors of the University of Virginia adjourned to be held at the University on the Second day of September 1833, no quorum was formed on that day, but on Tuesday, September 3d Messrs. Joseph C. Cabell, Rector P. T., Chapman Johnson, John H. Cocke, Th: J. Randolph, and Jno. M. Mason, appeared & formed a board, when the following resolutions were passed.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to credit the Bursar on his books by the sum of $134.09 1/2, the amount of the discrepancy now existing between their accounts as shewn by the report of Mr. Dawson dated August    1833.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to pay Martin Dawson the sum of $37.50 for his Services as an accountant under a resolution passed at the last meeting of the Board.

Resolved, that the Proctor be instructed to charge no rent to Wm. Wertenbaker, for the time that he occupied one of the Hotels of the University, after the expiration of his contract as Hotel Keeper.

Resolved, that the Faculty, at their discretion may allow any man of undoubted moral character above the age of 23 years, to attend the Lectures in any of the schools of the University, and to reside out of the precincts, exempt from the rules and regulations prescribed for the Government of Students; except only that he shall pay the usual professors fees, and the usual compensation for the use of the public rooms, and shall observe all those laws of the Institution which enjoin respectful and orderly deportment: But the privilege so allowed, may be withdrawn by the Faculty, at any time when, in their opinion, it has been used to the evil example of the Students, or other wise to the Injury of the Institution.

Resolved, that in addition to the improvements in the public lecture room directed by the 13th resolution reported by the Committee of Inspection and passed at the last meeting of the Visitors, it shall be the duty of the proctor under the directions of the professors using the room, to cause the benches repaired and black boards to be painted, & broader backs to be annexed to the latter, and also to cause a platform to be constructed in the apartment of suitable dimensions and elevation for the convenience of the professors and their classes, in lectures & recitations.

When a riot, or other serious violation of good order and decorum shall occur among the Students, within the precincts of the University after night; the Chairman at his discretion, may cause a signal to be given for each Student to retire to his room, and remain therein during the residue of the night unless permitted by the Chairman sooner to depart. The signal to be given either by ringing the Bell of the University or otherwise, shall be particularly indicated to the Chairman and made known to the Students. And if any Student shall fail to obey the signal, by promptly retiring to his room, or shall afterwards, during the night depart therefrom without leave, he shall be liable to any of the punishments major or minor prescribed by the Enactments.

Resolved that the office of proctor and work shop of the Janitor be removed to Hotel B.

Resolved, that the proctor under the direction of the Executive Committee provide suitable furniture in pavilion No. 7. for the accommodation of the Visitors at their meetings, that he preserve it in good order, and that the rooms in the upper story of that pavilion be applied in the intervals to no other use:- that prior to each meeting the proctor make arrangements with some Hotel Keeper for the board of such of the Visitors as may require it; and that he provide accommodation for their horses in the stables of the University - Such board and accommodations to be paid for by the Visitors respectively.

The Board of Visitors have read with interest the communication of the Chairman and are gratified to see that he has entered upon the duties of his office with a zeal & vigilance which promise a faithful effort to execute the laws of the University. They have passed some resolutions to aid in the attainment of the objects he has indicated to them, & they have omitted other enactments suggested either because they were thought unnecessary at present, or of doubtful expediency- The plan of a day book for collecting and recording information interesting to the Institution they think is within the powers already confided to the Chairman, so that he may make the Experiment of its efficacy in the forms preferred by himself, or under such modifications as experience may suggest.

The Board would approve frequent visits of the Proctor to the Hotels, for the purpose of seeing that the reciprocal duties of the Hotel Keepers & Students are faithfully performed, & of bringing to the notice of the Chairman all serious violations of Law- but it will not escape the attention of the Chairman that an over-rigid scrutiny into minor offences may sometimes relax rather than invigorate the Executive Authority. They leave this subject therefore to the sound discretion with which existing laws may be executed rather than to interfere by prescribing positive rules.

With respect to the Uniform laws they deem any change inexpedient until they can have the benefit of that experience which the existing regulations faithfully executed will afford them. They will expect that benefit from the events of the ensuing session.

Resolved, that Dr. Robley Dunglison be invited to fill the Chair of Medicine in this University from the commencement of the ensuing session until the 15th day of October next, and to deliver during that time a course of lectures on Obstetricks; for which he shall receive, as a compensation the sum of $111.80 from the funds of the University, and one ninth part of the fees paid by the Students attending his lectures.

Resolved, that Dr. Alfred T. Magill of Jefferson County in this state be appointed professor of Medicine pro tempore, in the University of Virginia, to commence the performance of his duties from and after the 15th day of October next, and to continue in office till the end of the session the 20th July 1834. He shall receive as a compensation for his services the sum of $888.20 from the funds of the University, to be paid quarterly as the other professors' salaries are paid, and the residue of the fees paid by the Students attending the medical school after deducting that part thereof allowed to Dr. Dunglison for his services. He will be required to perform all the duties assigned by the enactments to the school of medicine, except to deliver lectures on obstetricks, & except that he may make such arrangements in relation to the lectures on medical jurisprudence as he and Dr. Dunglison may agree upon. The Corinthian pavilion lately occupied by professor Davis with the grounds & buildings attached thereto will be assigned as his residence, tho he may be allowed, if he prefer it to reside out of the University. He will also be allowed to practice medicine whether within or without the precincts so that his practice do not interfere with his duties as professor.

Resolved that if Dr. Magill should decline the appointment conferred on him, Dr. Patterson professor of Natural philosophy in this University be invited to fill the chair of Medicine for the residue of the session, after Dr. Dunglison's duties shall have ceased; and to perform all the duties above assigned to Dr. Magill; for which he shall receive the same compensation out of the funds of the University, and the same fees from Students above provided for Dr. Magill.

The Proctor shall receive the usual fees from Students attending the Medical School and shall pay them over to Dr. Dunglison & his successor in the proportions above prescribed.

Resolved that the Bursar shall pay no draft drawn upon him by the Proctor unless the consideration of the draft be plainly expressed on the face thereof, so that the Bursar may see that it is warranted by the enactments.

Purchases of Fuel & Candle are not to be made on account of the University, and cannot be paid for out of their Funds. They are to be made by the proctor on his individual account, for which he is to be indemnified by the profit allowed in the resale- To enable him to meet the necessary expenses each Student on matriculating shall make a deposit of Twenty dollars on account of Fuel and Candles to be accounted for on a final settlement.

The pocket money allowed to Students & deposited with the Patron, shall not be paid to order of the Student but to him in person upon his receipt, and in sums not less than five dollars.

The patron's books and accounts shall be laid before a commissioner appointed by the Chairman for the inspection thereof, on the first of November in each year and at the end of each session, or as soon as may be thereafter, and shall be carefully inspected and compared with the vouchers, and with the law prescribing the duty of the patron.

The Commissioner shall report to the Chairman the state of the accounts, saying particularly whether the books are fairly and regularly kept, whether the monies are regularly disbursed upon proper vouchers, and pursuant to law, whether the monies deposited with the patron are kept separate and apart from all other monies & deposited in Bank pursuant to the enactments & noting all other things which may seem worthy of observation.

These reports shall be communicated by the Chairman to the Faculty, held subject to the Examination of the Executive Committee and laid before the Visitors at their meeting.

The Chairman shall require of the officers of the Bank of Virginia a monthly return of the patron's accounts to be laid before the Faculty and the Board of Visitors, and to be submitted to the commissioner when examining the accounts of the Patron.

No money shall be drawn from the Literary Fund by the Bursar unless upon drafts countersigned by the Proctor who shall debit all such drafts to the Bursar.

The Bursar shall not hereafter draw any monies from the Literary Fund or discharge any other duties of his office till he shall have given bond with sufficient security to be approved by the Board, or in their recess by the Executive Committee, in the penalty of Twenty thousand dollars, payable to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and conditioned for the faithful disbursement of all funds which shall come to his hands by Virtue of his office, and that he will in all things well and truly perform the duties of his office.

The Bond so given shall be deposited with the secretary of the Board to be carefully preserved by him; and a duly certified copy thereof, together with a copy of this Enactment, shall be forwarded by him to the second auditor to be laid before the President and directors of the Literary Fund.

Resolved, that the application of Mrs. Gray respecting the Garden in her occupation, & the application of Professor Davis to have his garden wall removed be referred to the Executive Committee to be acted on as they may deem proper.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

Frank Carr Secty.

(By an omission in copying the proceedings, it would appear that the Board was occupied only one day at its last meeting. They were, in fact engaged two days, and an adjournment to Wednesday, the 4th of September should have been recorded after the passage of the resolution at page 99 beginning; "Resolved that the Faculty at their discretion may allow" &c; & a notice of their meeting on Wednesday Sept. 4, present the same members as on the preceding day, should have been recorded before entering the resolution on the same page beginning "Resolved, that in addition to the improvements in the public lecture room" &c.)
