---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1835'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1835) July 2, 1835
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 2, 1835

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

33 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Ant: Lang:

47

Med: & Med: Jurisp:

56

Mod: Lang:

23

Anatomy & Surgery

43

Mathematics

62

Moral Philosophy

49

Nat: Philosophy

55

Law

29

Chem: & Mat:Med:

56

No. of Session

Year

Whole numb: of Matriculates

Ant: Languages

Mod: Languages

Mathematics

Nat: philosophy

Chem: & Mat. Med.

Medicine and Med Jurisprudence

Anat. & Surgery

Moral Philosophy

Law

Whole no Tickets

1

1825

123

57

73

73

35

35

20

—

15

—

308

2

1826

177

107

90

98

43

45

16

—

28

26

453

3

1827

128

53

59

62

24

38

20

—

12

18

286

4

1827-8

131

48

46

63

30

43

25

23

25

24

327

5

1828-9

120

39

26

45

33

38

33

27

23

27

291

6

1829-30

133

52

39

60

47

42

32

34

16

23

345

7

1830-31

150

57

46

78

57

39

29

23

38

17

382

8

1831-32

140

48

24

64

58

60

56

41

57

29

437

9

1832-33

158

60

23

78

82

70

50

36

42

37

478

Ant: Lang:

77

Medicine

41

Mod: ditto

63

Anat: & Surgery

41

Mathematics

111

Moral Philosophy

70

Nat: Philosophy

74

Law

47

Chem: & Mat: Med:

89

Ant: Languages

85

Chem: & Mat: Med:

96

Mod: Languages

64

Anat: & Surgery

41

Mathematics

120

Med: & Med. Jurisp:

41

Nat: Philosophy

83

Moral Philosophy

50

Law

33

Total tickets

613

The stated annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia required by the enactments to have taken place on the 1st day of July 1835 was not formed until the 2d of the month. A Board was formed on that day consisting of Messrs. Jno. H. Cocke, Th: J. Randolph, Wm. C. Rives, and James M. Mason. In the absence of Jos. C. Cabell, the Rector Genl. Cocke was chosen Rector pro tempore.

On motion, Resolved that a committee be appointed, of which the Rector be ex officio a member to prepare a report in conformity with a "resolution of the General Assembly of Virginia calling for information respecting the University of Virginia, and the colleges and academies of the State."

In addition to the Rector the following Gentlemen were appointed the Committee viz: Messrs. Rives, Mason and Johnson.

A communication was received from Wm. Wertenbaker, assistant Librarian on the subject of Books missing from the Library which was referred to the Committee of Inspection.

The following standing committees were appointed

Of Inspection, Messrs. Randolph & Mason.

of Finance - Messrs. Mason & Rives.

of Accounts - Messrs. Mason & Randolph.

Resolved, That Dr. Warner, having accepted the appointment of Professor of Anatomy and Surgery, on a letter from the Rector informing him that he had been appointed to that Professorship for one year, and referring him for information, as to the Emoluments of that department, to the enactments of the University which declare that the annual Salary attached thereto shall be $750 is entitled to the whole of that sum, & the Proctor be instructed to settle his account for compensation accordingly.

Resolved, That Dr. Warner, appointed pro tempore to the school of Anatomy and Surgery by a resolution of this board on the 19th July last be appointed professor of Anatomy and Surgery in the University of Virginia, and that his Salary be one thousand dollars per annum.

The Board were also engaged in reading communications and examining into the books of the Chairman and Faculty.

The Bursar's and Proctor's accounts were handed in; and the Chairman made his reports.

The Board adjourned till tomorrow morning 8 O.Clock.

Friday July 3d. The Board met. Present as on yesterday.

A communication was received from the Proctor on the subject of his compensation, and referred to the Committee of Finance.

A communication from Dr. Patterson on the subject of the articles belonging to him among the Philosophical apparatus, and concerning his mineralogical specimens, and offering them for sale to the University, was referred to the Committee of Inspection.

A communication was read from Mr. Vincent, French Teacher, whereupon the Secretary was directed to inform Mr. Vincent that the Board do not see fit to interfere in any manner between the Faculty and himself.

Resolved, That the Faculty be authorised to confer the degree of Master of Arts on Professor Tutwiler of the University of Alabama.

Resolved, that the arrangements made by the Students of the University for the usual celebration of the last day of the session, being plainly in contravention of the existing laws of the Institution, the Visitors cannot consent to give effect to them by allowing the delivery of the orations and essays which have been prepared, in pursuance of those arrangements, within the limits of the University; but, recognizing with pleasure the return to a regular and constitutional mode of proceeding in the more recent resolutions of a meeting of the Students, they will take into respectful & favorable consideration the memorial presented on their behalf, so far as it asks for a modification of the law complain'd of, for the future.

Resolved, that the sentence of expulsion against Thomas Matthews be confirmed.

Resolved, that the sentence of expulsion against Ramsay M. Henry and R. H. Weightman be confirmed.

The Rector and Visitors have seen with pleasure the arrangement made by the Faculty with the Merchants of Charlottesville & its vicinity on the    day of    1834 and hope they will endeavour annually to renew it.

Upon the application of B. Jaeger, Professor of Natural history at Princeton College to deliver lectures the ensuing fall on Zoology and Botany, to such Students of the University as may be disposed to attend -

Resolved, that the Faculty be authorized, at their discretion, to give or withold from Professor Jaeger the permission asked - and should they grant the permission to extend to him such facilities as they may think proper.

Resolved, that the sentence of expulsion against Messrs. Land, Cheves, & Keary, late Students of the University, be confirmed.

The Board then adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 8 O.Clock.

Saturday July 4th 1835. Present as on yesterday.

Resolved, that the application of Mr. Ch: Morris, a Student of the University, to board the next Session at Mrs. Brokenborough's, on account of ill health, is granted, subject however to the discretion of the Faculty.

An application by way of an appeal from the Sentence of Expulsion pronounced by the Faculty against them, was received from Messrs. Land, Cheves & Keary, accompanied by a memorial & some additional testimony; Whereupon it was resolved;

That upon deliberate examination of the evidence exhibited before the Chairman and Faculty of the University of Virginia in the case of Messrs. Land, Keary, & Cheves, & of their memorial with its accompanying certificates; we regret that we feel ourselves bound to confirm the sentence of Expulsion pronounced against them.

The Board took a recess to be present at the exhibitions of the public day, and did not meet again for the transaction of business until,

Monday. July 6, Present as on Saturday.

Upon the application of Mr. A. Penci praying the Board of Visitors to erect a building within the Precincts, suitable for a gymnasium and asking permission of the Board to occupy with his family the upper rooms of the S.E. Hotel.

Resolved, That the condition of the Funds of the University will not, at this time permit an appropriation for the building desired:

Resolved, that the proctor be authorized to assign to Mr. Penci the upper apartments in the S.E. Hotel for the accommodation of himself and Family, provided that they be so assigned with the approbation of the Faculty.

Resolved, That the urgent demands upon the funds of the University, for repairs of the Pavilions, Dormitories and other buildings, render it inexpedient at this time to make further appropriations for the alterations requested by Professors Warner and Blaetterman, in their respective Pavilions.

Resolved, That application of Messrs. Bankhead & Ogden, for leave to reside during the next Session out of the precincts of the University, because of ill health, be referred to the Faculty - with power to grant or refuse such permission to these gentlemen severally as they may deem proper.

Resolved, The violation of the enactment prohibiting the introduction, keeping, or use of weapons, arms, gunpowder &c, shall be subject to any of the punishments major or minor, at the discretion of the Faculty.

Resolved, That the Committee to which was referred the communication from the President and directors of the Literary fund, be discharged from the further consideration of the subject; and that the same be referred to a committee of whom the Rector shall be one, with instructions to report thereon to the President and directors of the Literary fund within the time limited by their communications.

In addition to the Rector, Chapman Johnson, Jno. H. Cocke, Th: J. Randolph, James M. Mason, Wm. C. Rives, and Samuel Taylor were put upon the Committee.

Resolved - That the sum of one hundred and thirty five dollars and seventy one cents be paid to Dr. Thomas Johnson to reimburse him for so much money advanced by him for alterations and improvements in Pavilion No. 2 whilst the same was occupied by him; that sum being reported by the Executive Committee under the resolution of the Board of Visitors of the 18th of July last.

The Board were engaged in part during the day in hearing the statements of sundry of the Professors made at the request of the Board, relative to a resolution of censure on the Proctor passed by the Faculty.

The Board them adjourned to meet again tomorrow morning 8 O.Clock.

Teusday July 7. The Board met. Present as on yesterday.

Resolved, that professor Davis be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for one year terminating on the 4th of July next.

Daniel Perrow, one of the Hotel keepers of the University, having been convicted before the Faculty of a breach of duty; and, as reported by them still failing thereafter to perform the duties required of him by the enactments:

Resolved, that the said Daniel Perrow be removed from his office of Hotel keeper, & that the Secretary give him notice thereof forthwith.

The Committee of Finance made their report.

Dr. R. M. Patterson having resigned the Professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University which for the last six years he has filled with such distinguished ability and success, the Board of Visitors cannot permit his connection with the Institution, of which they are the guardians, to be dissolved without expressing the high sense they entertain of the valuable services he has rendered it,- tendering him the cordial sentiments of esteem and respect with which his character and conduct have inspired them; & assuring him of the lively interest they will continue to take in his prosperity and happiness wheresoever his duties or the course of events may call him.

The Secretary will enter this expression of the sentiments of the Board and communicate a copy thereof to Dr. Patterson.

Resolved, That the proctor give public notice by advertisement as usual, that one of the Hotels in the University is vacant, and invite proposals for an appointment.

The Board of Visitors having on the application of Messrs. Cheves, Land, and Keary, reconsidered their memorial, and heard their respective statements, together with some additional certificates, and finding some imperfection in the testimony before them in relation to some points of the case have determined to refer the whole matter back to the Faculty for their reconsideration on such additional testimony and explanations as may be presented to them, as well as on the evidence heretofore in their possession, and will await the result of that reconsideration before they finally act on the subject- In the meantime Messrs. Cheves, Land & Keary will remain subject to all the consequences of the inchoate sentence already pronounced by the Faculty.

Resolved that Opie Norris be employed, under the direction of the Committee on the Bursar's and Proctor's accounts to examine the said accounts for the last year, in connecttion with their respective vouchers, and to report the result of such examination; for which service he shall receive compensation at the rate of five dollars per diem.

A portion of this day the Board was engaged in listening to the statements & explanations of the Proctor on the subject of the resolution of censure passed by the Faculty.

The Board then adjourned to meet again tomorrow morning at 8 O.Clock.

Wednesday July 8. The Board met. Present as on yesterday.

On their meeting the Board resumed the subject of Yesterday, and further statements and explanations were made by the Proctor in their presence. The result of the deliberations of the Board on this matter will be found in the report of the Committee of Inspection, & in the resolutions adopted on their recommendation.

A communication from Wm. H. Brokenborough, Librarian, was read and ordered to be filed.

Resolved, That the fine imposed by the Faculty on Jno. N. Rose late an Hotel keeper be reduced to ten dollars, and that if the said fine have been paid, the Proctor refund to Mr. Rose agreeably to this resolution.

Resolved, That the application of Professor Harrison contained in his letter to the Board of Visitors, to be permitted to exchange his pavilion for that recently occupied by Professor Patterson, be granted.

Resolved, the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at their meeting on the 14th July 1828, allowing five hundred dollars as additional compensation to the Professor of Natural Philosophy be, and is hereby repealed.

Wm. H. Brokenborough having resigned the office of Librarian -

Resolved that Wm. Wertenbaker be appointed Librarian of the University to enter forthwith on the discharge of his duties.

It shall be the duty of the Librarian in future, if required by the Faculty to act as Secretary of their body, and in that case he shall be entitled to receive the compensation annexed to that office.

The Board of Visitors having had under consideration the paper addressed to them by Mrs. Brokenborough, relative to the preservation of equality in the rights and privileges of the resident and non-resident Hotelkeepers:

Resolved, that it is the wish of the Visitors that such equality should be regarded by the Faculty, as far as circumstances may admit.

Resolved, that the part of the Janitor's Salary now unpaid be witheld at the discretion of the Chairman, until he becomes more attentive to his duties, and gives more satisfaction in their discharge.

Resolved, that the request of Capt. Alden Potridge to deliver a course of Military instruction, see his letter of July 4th 1835, is granted, subject to the control of the Faculty.

Resolved, that it is not expedient to increade the compensation of the Proctor and Patron of the University.

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be authorized, in pursuance of the provisions of the act of the Legislature on that subject, to contract an additional loan, not exceeding $2230 (two thousand two hundred and thirty dollars) for the purpose of completing the repairs of the University now in progress.

Resolved, That it is not expedient at this time to increase the Salary of the Professor of Modern Languages.

Resolved, That Professor Henry of Princeton, be appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy in this Institution; and if he shall decline the appointment, in that case Professor Rogers of Wms. Burgh be, and is hereby appointed to that professorship.

Resolved, that the Visitors approve the decision of the Faculty, reversing their late sentence of expulsion against Mr. Cheves, and confirming their similar sentence against Messrs. Land & Keary.

The Chairman having reported in his book that a difference arose during the past session between himself and the Proctor as to the right of the Chairman to control that officer in the execution of his official duties;

Resolved, that by the enactments, the Proctor is required to obey the instructions of the Chairman in all matters affecting his official duties.

The following preamble and resolutions were brought before the Board for consideration, & some difficulty arising respecting them, were laid over for consideration at a fuller meeting: viz.

The proceedings of the professors having in view the adoption of measures for the erection by private contributions, of a chapel on the grounds of the University for the more convenient and appropriate performance of the religious services already provided for by an arrangement which has received the sanction of the Board of Visitors, being presented:

Resolved, that the board duly estimating, as their predecessors have done, the importance of religious worship to the well-being of the Institution over which they preside, & finding that the apartment heretofore allotted and occupied for that purpose is totally inadequate to the accommodation of the Students and professors and their families , who have shown an earnest desire to attend on the religious services which have for some years been regularly performed there, do cheerfully assent to the proposed building of a chapel on the grounds of the University; reserving to their future decision, upon a more deliberate consultation with the professors, the precise designation of the site for the chapel, and it being well understood that the same jealous care to maintain a strict impartiality and equality between the several religious denominations in their relations to this institution, shall continue to be scrupulously and sacredly preserved.

Resolved, that in cases of suspension from the University, the Faculty shall prescribe the place at which the suspended Student shall reside during the period of suspension; and, in cases of expulsion, dismission, or suspension, the utmost promptitude & punctuality are recommended to the chairman in apprising the parents or guardians of the Students so expelled, dismissed or suspended of the sentemces passed on them.

Resolved, That the privilege heretofore given to the Proctor to take the dead and fallen wood from the University lands, did not contemplate the cutting or using any green or living timber; and the practice of using the University teams and hands as has been suggested to furnish wood for the Proctor is improper and ought to be discontinued.

Resolved, That in future the Orators and Essayists for the last day of the session shall be chosen in the following manner; the whole body of Students shall, in the month of November of each year be arranged by the Chairman into nine equal divisions - each division shall name one elector; the nine electors thus chosen shall meet together at such time as may be designated by the Chairman, and by a majority of their voices select the Orators & essayists for the last day of the session, not exceeding six in number, and to be approved by the Faculty.

The Compositions of the Orators & essayists shall, as heretofore, be submitted to the chairman for his approbation, and he may prescribe such limitations of time for their delivery as may be best calculated to promote the good effect of such an exhibition of the talents of the Institution.

The Committee on the Bursar's and Proctor's accounts made their report, and on their recommendation the following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved That Messrs. Randolph & Rives be empowered to employ Opie Norris as the accountant of this board to make any investigation of the Proctor's and Bursar's accounts that they may deem necessary, and report the same to the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved, that hereafter it shall be the duty of the Proctor to exhibit to the Board of Visitors on the first day of their annual meeting a detail'd report of all sums received for rents, fines; assessments, and specify the name of the person from whom received, the date and amount of each payment.

The Committee of Inspection made their report accompanyed by the following resolutions which were adopted.

Resolved, that the philosophical apparatus now in the department of Natural Philosophy belonging to Dr. Patterson, and contained in his scedule endorsed "List and valuation of Dr. Patterson's apparatus, July 3d 1835."- be purchased by the University at the price proposed of $846.90 and that the time and mode of payment be arranged by the Executive Committee.

That the expediency of purchasing from Dr. Patterson, his cabinet of Mineralogical and Geological specimens be referred to the Executive Committee -

That the Executive Committee be authorised to dispose of the balance turning upon agates with its appurtenances in the department of Natural Philosophy, and in their discretion to apply the proceeds of sale in payment, pro tante, to Dr. Patterson.

That it be hereafter the duty of the Janitor under the direction of the Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to clean & refit, at least once in each year, the surgical instruments and apparatus under the care of that professor.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorised to cause a temporary partition to be put up in the Anatomical hall, in such manner as will conduce to the warmth in winter, and greater comfort of that apartment - And in their discretion to order and have placed there an additional stove.

Resolved, That the proctor cause the room upon the ground floor of the Rotunda, near the Chemical Laboratory, now occupied by one of the Negroes of the University to be vacated by that occupant; and those rooms after being properly cleansed, to be locked up, or put to other desirable uses.

Resolved, that the Visitors approve the regulations adopted by the Faculty for the future government of the Library; and entertain the hope that they will be punctually regarded.

Resolved, that hereafter upon the arrival of new books for the Library, that the packages be opened by the Proctor and Librarian together, the books be compared with the invoice accompanying them - the receipt of the Librarian taken for them, and they committed to his custody before they shall be at the disposal of the professors or students.

Resolved, that so much of the report of the Committee of Inspection as relates to their inspection of the buildings, grounds &c be communicated to the Proctor.

Resolved, That it appears to the Board of Visitors, from the report of their Committee of Inspection, and from information derived from the Professors ( the details of which information have been communicated to the Proctor, and explanations made therein by him ) that his duties as Master of police, have by no means been discharged in the manner contemplated by the Enactments or to the satisfaction of the Visitors.

Resolved-That without enumerating all the instances of ommission of duty in his police department which have been brought to the notice of the Visitors, they cannot refrain from specifying his acknowledged failure to inspect at the times required by law, the Hotels and dormitories, and to report their condition monthly to the Faculty;- or to report to them cases of damage or injury to the buildings by Students or others, in order that the fines should be assessed by the proper authority - If the enactments are not obeyed by the chief officer of police, the discipline and good order of the Institution, will depend upon his private discretion & not upon the efficacy of the Laws.

The Board then adjourned Sine die.

Frank Carr Secretary.

To the President and directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the law requiring the Visitors of the University of Virginia to make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting embracing a full account of disbursements, the funds on hand, and a General Statement of the condition of the University, the Rector & Visitors make the following Report.

In conformity to the provisions of the act of the General Assembly establishing the University of Virginia which requires the Rector & Visitors that they should annually visit the Institution for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the Students they held a stated annual meeting at the University beginning on the 11th and ending on the 18th July 1832.

The investigations instituted by the Board into the state and condition of the University, especially relating to the diligence and progress of the Students resulted in satisfactory evidence of time well employed and application crowned with success. The number of successful candidates for academic distinctions greatly exceeds those of any preceeding Session. These distinctions are the appropriate rewards of merit ascertained by a system of examinations thorough and searching, and which shuts out the idle and dissipated from all hope of attaining to the honors which they confer.

The increased number of Graduates in the several schools gives satisfactory assurance to the Board that the able professors who constitute the Faculty of the University have relaxed nothing of that diligence and Fidelty which the Board have, in their previous reports, had so much reason to commend.

In the Departments of police and discipline the enactments of the Board have been least successful, and the Faculty have had the greatest difficulties to encounter. While the great body of the Students have been orderly and diligent, it has been in the power of a few unworthy and unsound members, occasionally to create confusion & embarrassment. This will always be the case while the dissipated and profligate are shielded in their violations of law & outrages against decency by a vague and unmeaning sense of honor, that "loose principle in the Ethics of schoolboy combinations," which forbids one Student to give evidence against his fellow. The departments of police and discipline in all academical Institutions have everywhere presented a problem of difficult solution. The efforts of the Board to solve it have necessarily been experimental. They have fail'd in the desired success; and they fear that failure must continue to attend their efforts, unless some plan can be adopted by which the false principle of Honor before alluded to, may be either satisfied or subdued. The Faculty must have it in their power to detect offenders and bring them to punishment before offences can be expected to cease. No enactments of the Board have hitherto enabled them to accomplish this- Hence it is that the Board have deemed it expedient to apply to the Legislature for aid to effect it; and with that view they have authorised a committee of their body to urge upon the Legislature of the State a scheme which in their opinion, promises to be successful.

The Board have discontinued the appointment of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery and have erected the Department into a professorship, which they have conferred on Th: Johnson M. D. the former Demonstrator. They have also authorised the Professor of Medicine to deliver lectures on the Philosophy of Natural History - his fee to be $15.

The Separation of the offices of Proctor & Patron, made at the last meeting of the Board, has not been attended by advantages answerable to their expectations, or adequate to the expense of providing a salary for the Proctor. These two offices have therefore again been united in one, and, on the resignation of Mr. Carr, the recent Proctor, have been conferred on Mr. Wm. G. Pendleton of the city of Richmond.

The number of matriculates during the Session which has just ended, exhibits a gradual increase on that of previous sessions, being 139 & were distributed among the several schools as follows.

The reports of the Bursar and Proctor, exhibiting the State of the Funds of the Institution, accompany this report.

Report to the president & Directors of the Literary Fund, of the proceedings of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at their stated meeting in July, and also at an adjourned meeting in September 1833.

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the law requiring the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to make a Report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting embracing a full account of disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the Condition of the University, the Rector and Visitors make the following Report.

That the Board of Visitors commenced their regular annual meeting at the University on the 12th July and continued their meeting until the 20th of the month making a Session of nine days- It's attention was directed as usual to the state and condition of the Institution in all it's departments, to the consideration of its wants, and to the enactments of such new, and the revision of such existing regulations, as the experience of the past year seemed to have rendered necessary or expedient. From the records of the Chairman & Faculty; from the results of the public examinations, & from the increasing number of graduates, the Visitors received gratifying evidences of the fidelity & ability of the Professors, of the progress & proficiency of the Students, and of the continued improvement of the Institution, and of its increasing titles to the favor and patronage of the public.

In the school of Mathematics, a class of civil engineering and surveying was proposed by Professor Bonnycastle, and authorised by the Board to be added to the other duties of the chair; and from the well know abilities of the Professor as well as the care & extent of his preparations, the Visitors entertain no doubt of the success of the experiment. Indeed from such a course of elementary instruction upon a subject of such great and increasing interest to the community they anticipate the happiest results.

In the school of modern Languages the Tutor Mr. Jno. Hervè having resigned and the number of Students in the school having for many years been much reduced, the Visitors deemed it expedient to discontinue for the present the appointment and to transfer to the Professor the duties of the school in all the classes. In this school they made another regulation at the last meeting from which they anticipate a future advantage to the number and utility of the school. From and after the termination of the ensuing Session of the University the degree of Master of Arts will not be granted, unless the Student, in addition to the qualifications heretofore required, shall have graduated in at least two of the languages taught in this school.

In the school of Medicine a vacancy was occasioned by the resignation of Professor Dunglison with a view to accept a professorship in the University of Maryland. The distinguished ability with which Doctr. Dunglison had uniformly discharged the duties of the school of Medicine, and the eminent services he had rendered the Institution entitled him to the thanks of the Visitors.

The resignation of Professor Dunglison having been communicated to the Visitors individually in the spring, notice of the approaching vacancy was given thro' the medium of the public prints with a view of inviting applications for the Chair, to be laid before the Board at the annual meeting in July. But the Visitors being unable at that meeting to make a satisfactory appointment decided to adjourn for that purpose to the first Monday in September. At the same time they required the Proctor to notify the public as well of the period and object of the adjourned meeting, as of the fact that provisional arrangements had been made for the recommencement of the medical lectures and for their continuance until the successor of Dr. Dunglison should be regularly appointed.

The adjourned meeting of the Visitors was held at the University on the 3d & 4 of September, when the recommendations laid before the Board being duly considered, it was decided to confide the Chair of Medicine to the charge of Dr. Alfred T. Magill of Jefferson County in this state. Upon this occasion however, as in the case of the recent elections of professors in the schools of Law & of Antient Languages; the Visitors being apprised that the advantages of mature experience in the duties of the Chair would not accompany the other high Claims upon their choice, deemed it expedient to adopt the policy of a temporary appointment. Dr. Magill was therefore appointed Professor of Medicine pro tempore to enter upon the performance of his duties from and after the 15th October and to continue in office till the end of the Session the 20th July 1834; and Dr. Dunglison's engagements with the University of Maryland not requiring his immediate departure, he was invited and engaged to fill the Chair of Medicine from the opening of the next session till the arrival of Dr. Magill - the fees and Salary to be divided between them in proportion to the term of service rendered by each respectively.

The progressive state of the schools is clearly set forth in the annexed tabular statement prepared at the University.

In conformity to the requisitions of the Law the accounts of the receipts and disbursements and funds on hand as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor are given with their report.

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In Obedience to the Law requiring the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund, to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting embracing a full account of disbursements, the funds on hand, and a general statement of the condition of the University, the Rector and Visitors make the following Report.

That the Visitors began to assemble at the University at the period fixed for their stated annual meeting, but from sickness and other causes the requisite quorum did not assemble untill the 15th July 1834 when a board being formed they commenced the accustomed discharge of their duties; and continuing it from day to day adjourned on the 19th of the Month, after a Session of five days. Upon a searching examination into the general administration of the Institution the Visitors found no cause to change the favourable impressions expressed in their last annual report; on the contrary, they were gratified to find those impressions confirmed and strengthened by renewed and increasing proofs of the progressive and improving state of the Institution. It is due to the Professors, Officers and Students to state that this advancing amelioration, was particularly remarked by the Visitors in regard to the important objects of Instruction and discipline.

The number of Students from this state and from other states seems to be rapidly increasing, in so much that the present buildings will soon be inadequate to the accommodation of the whole number, and without some addition to the buildings a considerable portion will be compelled to seek for lodgings beyond the precincts of the University. To guard against the occurrence of such a result, the Visitors have not the means placed at their disposal, the funds of the University being at present adequate only to defray the current annual charges, to meet the Interest of the debt authorised by law, and to renew upon a desireable plan the extensive roofs of the University, originally constructed of perishable materials, & now in a state of general & rapid decay.

The Visitors were gratified to learn from a recent correspondence between Professor Bonnycastle chairman of the Faculty, and O. Rich Esqr. of London and Messrs. Goodhue & Co. of New York, that the British Government had ordered that copies of the public records of Great Britain recently published by order of the Commissioners for the preservation of the public records should be presented to the University of Virginia, and that the Books have arrived at New York. They requested the Chairman of the Faculty promptly to communicate thro' the same channel to the proper authorities of Great Britain the sense entertained by the Rector & Visitors of the courtesy and good feeling manifested in this instance by the Government of Great Britain, accompanied by the assurance that they would cause the valuable publications presented to be placed in their Library as an honorable evidence alike of the zeal of that Government for the diffusion of useful learning and of the liberal sentiments of national amity which produced the offering.

By previous enactment the Sessions of the University were made to commence on the 10th of September in each year and terminate on the 20th July ensuing, and the stated annual meetings of the Visitors were made to commence on the 10th July in each year. At their last annual meeting the Visitors deemed it expedient to change this regulation. In future the Sessions of the University will commence on the 1st of September in each year and terminate on the 4th of July following, and the stated annual meeting of the Visitors will commence on the 1st of July in each year. It is believed that this change will be advantageous to the Institution, and more convenient and satisfactory to all the parties concerned.

In the school of Medicine Dr. Alfred Magill, who had, on the 3d of September last, been appointed temporary Professor of Medicine, and who had, in the conduct of the chair, given sufficient evidences of merit, was confirmed in the appointment.

In the school of Anatomy and Surgery Dr. Thos. Johnson having resigned during the Session of the Visitors, they proceeded at once to supply the Vacancy. They selected Dr. A.L. Warner of Baltimore to succeed Dr. Johnson, and, as in the recent similar case in that school, made the appointment for one year only. They also determined, that until the further order of the Visitors, physiology should be taught in the school of Anatomy and Surgery instead of the school of Medicine; and that the same duties and emoluments connected with the lectures on this science which then appertained to the professor of Medicine should hereafter attach to the professor of Anatomy and Surgery.

The no. of students at the loth Session of the University ending on the 20th July 1834 was 205 and the number in each school as follows

Whilst, on the one hand, it is pleasing to find in this exhibit of the classes compared with that of preceeding years, decisive evidence of increasing utility, on the other hand it is a source of regret that the necessity of keeping up the rents for the use of the buildings, & consequently augmenting the Expenses of education, should impair the success of our efforts to promote economy & to bring the blessings of liberal science within reach of the greatest practicable number.

The accounts of the receipts, disbursements and Funds on hand are presented as accompanying documents to this report.

Joseph C. Cabell, Rector

To the President and Directors of the Literary Fund.

In obedience to the Law requiring the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to make a report annually to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund to be laid before the Legislature at their next succeeding meeting embracing a full account of disbursements, the funds on hand and a general statement of the condition of the University, the Rector and Visitors make the following Report.

In conformity to the provisions of the act of the General Assembly establishing the University of Virginia which requires of the Rector and Visitors that they annually visit the Institution for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the Students, they held a stated annual meeting at the University, beginning on the 2d & ending on the 8th of July 1835.

The session of the Board embraced the period of the public summer examination of the Students of the University, and they are gratified to be able to announce that the number of young gentlemen who aim at and who attain the Academic distinctions which the authorities of the Institution are authorised to confer on successful study is highly encouraging. This number increasing in at least a direct ratio with the continually increasing numbers annually resorting to the University for Instruction gives satisfactory proof of the general character of the Students for Industry and application.

The system of police and general management adopted at previous sessions of the Board, and which have been communicated heretofore in their annual reports to the President and Directors of the Literary Fund have undergone no change. Imperfectly executed as in some respects they have been in some departments of the Institution, these regulations aided, we acknowledge with pleasure, by the general good dispositions of the Students have been found, for the most part, to maintain a state of good order and regularity in general highly satisfactory to the Board.

The Board have been compelled, in aid of the Funds of the University, to authorise the Executive Committee in pursuance to the provisions of an act of the Legislature on that subject to contract for a loan, in addition to those heretofore contracted for, not exceeding $2230 (two thousand two hundred and thirty dollars ) for the purpose of completing the repairs of the University now in progress. This loan exhausts their power of borrowing. The necessity of these repairs is very urgent. The state of the buildings is such as imperiously to require them not less with a view to the comfort and accommodation of the Professors and Students than to the preservation of the property & Interests of the State. These repairs are in progress, and will be prosecuted until completed on a plan more perfect than hitherto adopted, or until we are compelled to desist from their prosecution by the want of Funds.

A vacancy having occurred in the Professorship of Natural Philosophy by the resignation of Dr. R. M. Patterson it has been supplied by the appointment to that chair of Professor Wm. B. Rogers, late of Wm & Mary College.

The number of Matriculates in the session of the University which has just terminated is 211 shewing a gradual and steady increase on the numbers of previous Sessions. They were distributed among the several schools as follows

The accounts of receipts & disbursements ,& funds on hand as rendered by the Bursar & Proctor will be found in the copies of the accounts of those officers accompanying this report.

Ant: Lang:

47

Med: & Med: Jurisp:

56

Mod: Lang:

23

Anatomy & Surgery

43

Mathematics

62

Moral Philosophy

49

Nat: Philosophy

55

Law

29

Chem: & Mat:Med:

56

In conformity to the provisions of the act of the General Assembly establishing the University of Virginia which requires the Rector & Visitors that they should annually visit the Institution for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the Students they held a stated annual meeting at the University beginning on the 11th and ending on the 18th July 1832.

The investigations instituted by the Board into the state and condition of the University, especially relating to the diligence and progress of the Students resulted in satisfactory evidence of time well employed and application crowned with success. The number of successful candidates for academic distinctions greatly exceeds those of any preceeding Session. These distinctions are the appropriate rewards of merit ascertained by a system of examinations thorough and searching, and which shuts out the idle and dissipated from all hope of attaining to the honors which they confer.

The increased number of Graduates in the several schools gives satisfactory assurance to the Board that the able professors who constitute the Faculty of the University have relaxed nothing of that diligence and Fidelty which the Board have, in their previous reports, had so much reason to commend.

In the Departments of police and discipline the enactments of the Board have been least successful, and the Faculty have had the greatest difficulties to encounter. While the great body of the Students have been orderly and diligent, it has been in the power of a few unworthy and unsound members, occasionally to create confusion & embarrassment. This will always be the case while the dissipated and profligate are shielded in their violations of law & outrages against decency by a vague and unmeaning sense of honor, that "loose principle in the Ethics of schoolboy combinations," which forbids one Student to give evidence against his fellow. The departments of police and discipline in all academical Institutions have everywhere presented a problem of difficult solution. The efforts of the Board to solve it have necessarily been experimental. They have fail'd in the desired success; and they fear that failure must continue to attend their efforts, unless some plan can be adopted by which the false principle of Honor before alluded to, may be either satisfied or subdued. The Faculty must have it in their power to detect offenders and bring them to punishment before offences can be expected to cease. No enactments of the Board have hitherto enabled them to accomplish this- Hence it is that the Board have deemed it expedient to apply to the Legislature for aid to effect it; and with that view they have authorised a committee of their body to urge upon the Legislature of the State a scheme which in their opinion, promises to be successful.

The Board have discontinued the appointment of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery and have erected the Department into a professorship, which they have conferred on Th: Johnson M. D. the former Demonstrator. They have also authorised the Professor of Medicine to deliver lectures on the Philosophy of Natural History - his fee to be $15.

The Separation of the offices of Proctor & Patron, made at the last meeting of the Board, has not been attended by advantages answerable to their expectations, or adequate to the expense of providing a salary for the Proctor. These two offices have therefore again been united in one, and, on the resignation of Mr. Carr, the recent Proctor, have been conferred on Mr. Wm. G. Pendleton of the city of Richmond.

The number of matriculates during the Session which has just ended, exhibits a gradual increase on that of previous sessions, being 139 & were distributed among the several schools as follows.

The reports of the Bursar and Proctor, exhibiting the State of the Funds of the Institution, accompany this report.

No. of Session

Year

Whole numb: of Matriculates

Ant: Languages

Mod: Languages

Mathematics

Nat: philosophy

Chem: & Mat. Med.

Medicine and Med Jurisprudence

Anat. & Surgery

Moral Philosophy

Law

Whole no Tickets

1

1825

123

57

73

73

35

35

20

—

15

—

308

2

1826

177

107

90

98

43

45

16

—

28

26

453

3

1827

128

53

59

62

24

38

20

—

12

18

286

4

1827-8

131

48

46

63

30

43

25

23

25

24

327

5

1828-9

120

39

26

45

33

38

33

27

23

27

291

6

1829-30

133

52

39

60

47

42

32

34

16

23

345

7

1830-31

150

57

46

78

57

39

29

23

38

17

382

8

1831-32

140

48

24

64

58

60

56

41

57

29

437

9

1832-33

158

60

23

78

82

70

50

36

42

37

478

The progressive state of the schools is clearly set forth in the annexed tabular statement prepared at the University.

In conformity to the requisitions of the Law the accounts of the receipts and disbursements and funds on hand as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor are given with their report.

Ant: Lang:

47

Med: & Med: Jurisp:

56

Mod: Lang:

23

Anatomy & Surgery

43

Mathematics

62

Moral Philosophy

49

Nat: Philosophy

55

Law

29

Chem: & Mat:Med:

56

In conformity to the provisions of the act of the General Assembly establishing the University of Virginia which requires the Rector & Visitors that they should annually visit the Institution for the purpose of enquiring into the proceedings and practices thereat, and of examining into the progress of the Students they held a stated annual meeting at the University beginning on the 11th and ending on the 18th July 1832.

The investigations instituted by the Board into the state and condition of the University, especially relating to the diligence and progress of the Students resulted in satisfactory evidence of time well employed and application crowned with success. The number of successful candidates for academic distinctions greatly exceeds those of any preceeding Session. These distinctions are the appropriate rewards of merit ascertained by a system of examinations thorough and searching, and which shuts out the idle and dissipated from all hope of attaining to the honors which they confer.

The increased number of Graduates in the several schools gives satisfactory assurance to the Board that the able professors who constitute the Faculty of the University have relaxed nothing of that diligence and Fidelty which the Board have, in their previous reports, had so much reason to commend.

In the Departments of police and discipline the enactments of the Board have been least successful, and the Faculty have had the greatest difficulties to encounter. While the great body of the Students have been orderly and diligent, it has been in the power of a few unworthy and unsound members, occasionally to create confusion & embarrassment. This will always be the case while the dissipated and profligate are shielded in their violations of law & outrages against decency by a vague and unmeaning sense of honor, that "loose principle in the Ethics of schoolboy combinations," which forbids one Student to give evidence against his fellow. The departments of police and discipline in all academical Institutions have everywhere presented a problem of difficult solution. The efforts of the Board to solve it have necessarily been experimental. They have fail'd in the desired success; and they fear that failure must continue to attend their efforts, unless some plan can be adopted by which the false principle of Honor before alluded to, may be either satisfied or subdued. The Faculty must have it in their power to detect offenders and bring them to punishment before offences can be expected to cease. No enactments of the Board have hitherto enabled them to accomplish this- Hence it is that the Board have deemed it expedient to apply to the Legislature for aid to effect it; and with that view they have authorised a committee of their body to urge upon the Legislature of the State a scheme which in their opinion, promises to be successful.

The Board have discontinued the appointment of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery and have erected the Department into a professorship, which they have conferred on Th: Johnson M. D. the former Demonstrator. They have also authorised the Professor of Medicine to deliver lectures on the Philosophy of Natural History - his fee to be $15.

The Separation of the offices of Proctor & Patron, made at the last meeting of the Board, has not been attended by advantages answerable to their expectations, or adequate to the expense of providing a salary for the Proctor. These two offices have therefore again been united in one, and, on the resignation of Mr. Carr, the recent Proctor, have been conferred on Mr. Wm. G. Pendleton of the city of Richmond.

The number of matriculates during the Session which has just ended, exhibits a gradual increase on that of previous sessions, being 139 & were distributed among the several schools as follows.

The reports of the Bursar and Proctor, exhibiting the State of the Funds of the Institution, accompany this report.

No. of Session

Year

Whole numb: of Matriculates

Ant: Languages

Mod: Languages

Mathematics

Nat: philosophy

Chem: & Mat. Med.

Medicine and Med Jurisprudence

Anat. & Surgery

Moral Philosophy

Law

Whole no Tickets

1

1825

123

57

73

73

35

35

20

—

15

—

308

2

1826

177

107

90

98

43

45

16

—

28

26

453

3

1827

128

53

59

62

24

38

20

—

12

18

286

4

1827-8

131

48

46

63

30

43

25

23

25

24

327

5

1828-9

120

39

26

45

33

38

33

27

23

27

291

6

1829-30

133

52

39

60

47

42

32

34

16

23

345

7

1830-31

150

57

46

78

57

39

29

23

38

17

382

8

1831-32

140

48

24

64

58

60

56

41

57

29

437

9

1832-33

158

60

23

78

82

70

50

36

42

37

478

The progressive state of the schools is clearly set forth in the annexed tabular statement prepared at the University.

In conformity to the requisitions of the Law the accounts of the receipts and disbursements and funds on hand as rendered by the Bursar and Proctor are given with their report.
