---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1838'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
The 1st day of July 1838, the day fixed on by the enactments of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for their stated annual meeting, being Sunday, there was consequently no meeting of the Board on that day. On the following day, Monday July 2d, Messrs. Cabell & Cocke appeared, and were engaged in examining the Book of the Chairman & the Minutes of the proceedings of the Faculty, & in noting such things as might seem to require the action of the Board when a quorum might be formed.

On Tuesday the 3d day of July a quorum was formed by the addition of Chapman Johnson, Rector, & Thomas J. Randolph to the number already present, and the Board proceeded to business, when the following resolutions were adopted.

1\. Resolved, that a new edition of the Enactments of the University to the number of two thousand Copies, be printed, & that Professor Davis be requested to compile & digest the same.

2\. Resolved that the proctor take immediate measures under the superintendence of the Executive Committee to render the Exterior of the Rotunda proof against fire.

A communication received from Doct: R. E. Griffith on the subject of the condition of the roof of his pavilion &c was referred to the Executive Committee.

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning 8 O.Clock.

Wednesday July 4th. The Board met: Present as on yesterday.

1\. Resolved that Wm. L. Harris be exempted from the payments of Rents for Dormitory, for the use of the Library and for public rooms for the session of 1836-7 and if such rents or any part of them have been paid, that they be refunded to Mr. Harris.

2\. Resolved that Thomas Woodley be permitted to occupy the room in Hotel D. lately occupied by Mr. Jas: H. Davis.

Jos: H. Cabell, Jno. H. Cocke, & Thomas J. Randolph were appointed a Committee of Finance.

Th: J. Randolph was appointed a Committee to settle the Proctor's & Bursar's accounts.

The Exercises of the public day intervening, the Board adjourned till tommorrow morning.

Thursday July 5th. The Board met: Present as on yesterday.

The committee appointed by the resolution of the 19th August 1837 to perform certain duties in the recess of the Board of Visitors touching the medical branch of the Institution made a report accompanied by the following resolutions which were adopted

1\. Resolved the accounts rendered by Doct: James L. Cabell of monies received by him from the University for the purchase of Books, plates, surgical Instruments and anatomical preparations, as also for the purchase of subjects for dissection, having been compared with the vouchers to said accounts, & all the items having been proven, be received as satisfactory by the Board.

2\. Resolved that the vouchers to the account of Dr. Cabell of monies received & expended by him in subjects of dissection, may, at his request be withdrawn from the University.

A communication in writing from a number of Students preferring charges against Professor Blaetterman, and praying his removal from office having been laid before the Board; & the Board, as at present constituted, having no authority to proceed in the investigation of the charges therefore.

3\. Resolved that the said communication be laid upon the Table in order that it may be laid before the Visitors at their next meeting.

The Committee of Finance made a report accompanied by the following resolution which was adopted.

4\. Resolved that if the income of the University should fall short of the disbursements during the year ending the 30th June 1839, the Bursar be authorised to anticipate the future income by a temporary loan to the amount necessary to meet the deficiency.

A Letter having been received from the Professors of Medicine & of Anatomy & Surgery recommending the establishment on a limited scale of a dispensary as an adjunct to the medical department of the University, and requesting authority to use for such purposes, the brick building now occupied by the Laborers in the service of the Institution, and a small appropriation from the University funds in aid of the establishment.

5\. Resolved that the Professors of the Medical School be authorized to appropriate the Brick building now occupied by the Laborers of the University to the purposes of an infirmary to be connected with and under the direction of the said school.

6\. Resolved that the Proctor be instructed forthwith to cause such repairs & such alterations to be made in the said Brick house as the Professors of the Medical School may direct and also to cause to be repair'd for the purpose of lodging the laborers of the University the vacant house situated on the grounds in the vicinity of the House now occupied by the Janitor.

7\. Resolved that the sum of $350 be appropriated from the Funds of the University, to be applied, under the superintendence & directions of the Professors of the Medical School in defraying the expense of altering & repairing the buildings, & in aid of the establishment aforesaid.

8\. Resolved that the Professors of the medical school be requested to submit to the Board of Visitors at it's next meeting a detail'd report on the subject of a proper plan & regulations for the proposed infirmary.

9\. Resolved that each Student who may choose to attend the Infirmary shall pay an annual fee of $5 to be applied toward defraying the expenses of the establishment.

10\. Resolved that the bodies of patients who may die in the Infirmary shall be removed from the same, and interred at the discretion of the friends or owners of said patients.

11\. Resolved that Mr. Samuel Sublitte be authorized to withdraw the ten prints, a part of the bequest of the late Christian Bohn to the University, and mentioned in the Letter of the Librarian to the Board.

12\. Resolved that no student shall be allowed to board without the precincts of the University at any house kept in whole or in part for the purpose of boarding Students unless the keeper of such shall prohibit the use of vinous & spirituous liquors & all games of chance within such house or it's tenements, and shall receive from such Students twenty dollars more than are charged the Students at the Hotels of the University for diet lodging and other offices and accommodations of the house or tenement during the like term, & whenever the Chairman of the Faculty shall have cause to believe that this regulation is violated, or any regulation which the Faculty may deem necessary to impose for the government of the Students boarding at such house, it shall be his duty forthwith to revoke such license if satisfactory assurance of a due observance of such regulations for the future be not given.

13\. Resolved that Gessner Harrison M. D. be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

14\. Resolved that James L. Cabell M. D. be appointed Professor of Anatomy & Surgery in this Institution.

15\. Resolved that the proposition of Willis H. Woodley, Proctor, contain'd in his communication to the Board dated July 4th 1838 be acceded to by the Board on the terms & conditions therein contain'd and that the Horses & wagon now the property of the University be sold by the Proctor.

16\. Resolved that it shall be the duty of each Professor whenever he shall absent himself from the University during the session for a longer period at one time than one week to report the period of such absence in writing to the Proctor previous to his draft on him for his quarter's Salary; and it shall be the duty of the Proctor to deduct from the salary of such professor for the time of such absence- That is, that if a professor be absent from the University for one month, one tenth of the aggregate of his fees & salary for the year shall be deducted & in like rate for a greater or less time, unless such absence shall have been previously assented to by the board of Visitors, and it shall be the duty of the Proctor to require this report previous to each quarterly payment; and it shall be also the duty of the Proctor to report to the board the periods of such absences and the sums deducted therefor in order that the money may be disposed of as to them shall seem fit.

17\. The Chairman of the University for the time being, shall be, and is herby empowered to give license to the Students of this Institution, to contract debts in the manner contemplated and authorised by the first section of the Act of the General Assembly regulating & restraining the terms on which credit shall be allowed to Students passed on the 10th day of March 1838.

It is enjoined upon the Chairman to exercise the power thus vested in him with caution & sound discretion; and in general to confine it's exercise to cases in which it shall appear that the credit desired by the Student is for necessaries, having regard not only to the thing but it's cost;- tho' where the parent or guardian of any Student shall request the Chairman in writing to allow his son or ward more extensive credits, the Chairman may in pursuance of such request, authorise such reasonable credits, as, under the circumstances of the case, & in reference to the laws of the Institution may seem reasonable & proper.

To prevent evasions of the act aforesaid, the Faculty shall have power to refuse admission to any person applying therefor, who shall, before matriculation, have deposited any part of the funds under his control, and intended to defray his expenses whilst at the University with any other person than the Patron, or who shall have contracted any debt or debts with Merchants or others in fraud of the said act; and may enquire of every applicant for admission whether he has made such deposit or contracted such debt, & refuse him leave to matriculate unless he shall satisfactorily answer such enquiries. And if, after the matriculation of any Student, it shall be discovered that, before matriculation he derosite funds with any other person than the Patron, or contracted any debt in fraud of the Act of Assembly, or if any Student shall fail to deposit the funds received by him after matriculation, with the Patron as required by the enactments, he shall be suspended for not less than one month.

If a Student be summoned to give evidence before a justice of the peace or a grand Jury in relation to an offence against the act aforesaid and shall in any manner evade such summons, he may be proceeded against and punished by the Faculty, as for an evasion of the process of the courts as provided by section 24 3d Ch: printed Enactments. But no confession or statement made by a Student in the course of his legal examination as a witness, shall be taken as evidence against him in any Faculty action for violation of the laws of the University.

A Student contracting any debt forbiden by the provisions of the Act aforesaid, shall be subject to any of the major or minor punishments, and if, in contracting such debt he fraudulently conceal the fact that he is a Student of the University, or practice any other fraud upon the person with whom the debt is contracted, he shall be dismissed or expelled at the discretion of the Faculty.

It shall be the special duty of the Proctor of the University to use all means in his power to detect offenders against the said act.

Whenever he shall have reason to believe that an offence has been committed against the law, he shall promptly give information thereof together with the names of the Witnesses who may probably give evidence of the offence to a justice of the peace: and when necessary to the prosecution of offences against the Law, he shall appear before the Grand Jury having cognizance thereof, to testify in relation thereto, or to communicate the names of Witnesses who may probably testify. He shall in behalf of the University, strictly enforce in all cases, the penalties of the Act, and as far as possible, cause it's provisions to be fully carried into effect. And he shall make a special written report to the Chairman, at the end of every month, of the violations of the said law which have come to his knowledge, and of what he has done in relation to the same.

Resolved that the Secretary communicate to each member of the board of Visitors a copy of a resolution entered on the minutes of the proceedings of the Board at their meeting Wednesday July 8th 1835, which resolution has respect to an application of the Professors of the University for permission to build a Chapel on the grounds of the University, informing the members of the Board at the same time, that it is desirable that this subject should be acted on at their next meeting.

18\. Resolved that Alexander Garrett be allowed one half of one per cent upon the sum of $38, 204.31 the sum received by him from the Students and paid over to Willis H. Woodley, the regular Patron, on his arrival at the University & that the said per centage should be retain'd out of the Patron's commission on said amount.

19\. Resolved that the Books bequeathed to the University of Virginia by the will of Mr. Madison; and the Books and prints also given to the University by the late Christian Bohn, be put into separate presses & marked and labelled with the names of their respective donors. And that the said presses be forthwith prepared & arranged under the joint direction of the Chairman & Librarian.

20\. Resolved that in all cases of future donations of Books the name of the Donor with the date of the act, be reported to the Board of Visitors & where the donation is not of sufficient magnitude to require a separate Press with an external label as provided in the cases in the preceding resolution, then & in that case it shall be the duty of the Librarian, to record in a fair handwriting the date of the gift & the name of the Donor in a blank leaf of each volume so presented to the University, & where this has been omitted hitherto, that it be now done as far as may be found practicable.

21\. Resolved that the framed prints given to the University by the late Christian Bohn be hung up in the library or other public rooms of the Institution under the direction of a Committee to be appointed by the Faculty, & that the prints without frames be secured in port folios & deposited in some appropriate place marked & labelled as directed for the Books of the same donor.

22\. Resolved that the application of Professor Rogers for permission to be absent during the month of October on the duties connected with the geological survey of the State, be granted.

23\. So much of the enactment passed on Saturday August 19th. 1837 as forbids the payment of a draft drawn by any Student in favor of any merchant or dealer retailing vinous, spirituous or fermented liquors shall be & the same is hereby repealed.

A communication of Professor Emmett on the subject of repairs done to Pavilion No.1 was ordered to be laid on the Table.

24\. Resolved that the Proctor cause to be repaired the roof of the Platform in the rear of the Pavilion now in the occupancy of professor Bonnycastle.

25\. Resolved that the Shop in the rear of his pavilion, the press for models & Black board in the lecture room referred to in his communication of this date be constructed if in the opinion of the Executive Committee the funds of the University will justify the Expenditure.

26\. Resolved that the Professors shall not allow other persons than their own families or resident Students to occupy the dormitories adjoining their pavilions.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
