---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1845'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1845) April 23, 1845
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 23, 1845

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University April 23d & 24th 1845, which was called in consequence of the riots of the Students: Present Chapman Johnson, Rector, Jos: C. Cabell, John H. Cocke, Thomas J. Randolph, Wm. C. Rives, & Andrew Stevenson, who was appointed to supply the vacancy in the Visitation occasioned by the resignation of Samuel Taylor, the following resolutions were passed.

A committee from the Court now in session in the University, having waited upon the Board of Visitors for the purpose of knowing whether it is their pleasure that the guard which has been kept up for the protection of the public property for several nights past should be longer continued.

1\. Resolved that the Visitors do not deem it expedient, under the existing circumstances, to express to the Court any opinion upon the propriety of discontinuing the public guard at the University, but that the subject be confided to the judgment and action of the legal authorities, who have already taken cognizance of it.

2\. Resolved, as the opinion of the Board, that it is not expedient, as suggested by the resolution of Sundry Students, that the present session of the University should be now brought to a close; but that, on the contrary, the lectures which have been recently suspended on account of the late disturbances, should be resumed as early as practicable and continued until the regular termination of the session.

3\. Resolved, that it is expedient and proper that a written statement of the disturbances which have led to the present meeting of the Visitors of the University setting forth distinctly all the material circumstances known upon the subject & especially those which induced the Faculty to invite the interposition of the civil authority to protect the property of the University and the persons of a portion of the Professors, be prepared for the use of the Board of Visitors.

4\. Resolved, that it is desirable that this statement be prepared by one of the members of the Faculty whose house was not of the number of buildings assail'd & whose persons have not been threatened by the riotors.

5\. Resolved, that with a view to improve the Government & discipline of the University, professor Henry St. George Tucker be requested to prepare & lay before the Visitors at their annual meeting on the 4th of July next his views of the best plan & organization of a special court of Record to be established at or near the University, with authority to take cognizance of offences affecting the peace, order and general prosperity of the Institution.

The Board of Visitors having had before them communications both oral and written relative to the recent disturbances at the University, & having had under advisement various propositions having for their object the restoration of order & discipline in the Institution & having taken such measures in reference to the same as they deem requisite & proper:

6\. Resolved that it be recommended to the Faculty forthwith to address thro their Chairman to the parents & guardians of the Students of the University a circular letter, setting forth a brief statement of events connected with the recent disturbances, of the withdrawal of the civil authority from the precincts, of the meeting and adjournment of the Visitors, & of the resumption of the Lectures & exercises of the Institution.

7\. Resolved that it be recommended to the Faculty in case of the recurrence of scenes similar to those which have recently disturbed the peace & good order of the University to endeavor, thro' their Chairman, to concert such measures as may be deemed prudent to secure the prompt & efficient aid of the civil authority in preserving the peace & protecting the property of the University.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
