---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1848'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Proctor's report

$20,716.56

Expenditures

18,850.88

Balance on hand June 1st 1848

1,865.68

Amount due from Literary fund July 1st 1848

6,720.

Receivable for Diplomas, Ice House &c

300.

8,885.68

Due professors' Salaries

$2,900

Ditto on acct of State Students

400

Outstanding claims &c

2,500

5,800.

Bal: available July 1st 1848

$3085.68

The Proctor estimates the receipts of the year ending June 1st 1849 as follows

$21,665.68

Expenditures same period

17,587.

Bal: on hand June 1st 1849

4,078.68

Deduct $2000 for Randolph debt

2,000.

Balance on hand

2,078.68

The 25th June 1848 falling on Sunday the Board met on Monday the 26th of that month. Present, Jos: C. Cabell, Jno. H. Cocke, Ths. J. Randolph, and Andrew Stevenson.

The following proceedings were had.

Mr. Cabell, in consequence of the thinness of the Board, was appointed Rector pro temp:

The Secretary exhibited to the Board, an original draft of a plan for the establishment of a University of Virginia in the hand writing of Mr. Jefferson & that was addressed to Peter Carr, President of the Board of Trustees of the Charlottesville Academy Sept. 7, 1814, whereupon on the motion of Mr. Stevenson;-

1\. Resolved, that the said plan be spread upon the records of the Board, & the original be deposited among the archives of the University.

The following Committees were appointed:

Committee of Finance Th: J. Randolph & Wm. C. Rives

Committee of Inspection A. Stevenson and John H. Cocke.

On motion of Mr. Randolph;-

2\. Resolved that the Extract from the annual Report of the Rector & Visitors of the University made to the President & Directors of the Literary Fund on Octor. 1822, upon the subject of Religious Instruction together with the 25 & 26 enactments of the Board of Visitors which grew out of that report, be published, in the annual Catalogue of the Institution.

3\. On motion of Mr. Stevenson;-

Resolved that the aforesaid Extracts & Resolution, be published under the direction of the Chairman of the Faculty, in one newspaper, in the following Cities: viz- Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Richmond, Charleston, New Orleans, and Cincinnatti.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson-

4\. Resolved that the resolution No. 5 of the fifth of July 1842, allowing the Bursar 1/2 of one per cent as a compensation for his services as Bursar be rescinded & that 3/4 of one per cent be hereafter allowed in lieu thereof-

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

On Tuesday June 27th 1848: The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as on yesterday.

The following proceedings were had.

On motion by Mr. Randolph.

1\. Resolved that the Proctor & Bursar be directed to purchase without delay four of the onds given by the Rector & Visitors of the University for the loan from Martha Randolph, provided they can be obtained on reasonable terms; otherwise to purchase 20 shares of state stock to be held to meet that debt.

The Rector submitted a letter from Mr. Wm. B. Rogers asking leave to withdraw his letter of the 15th March 1848 resigning the professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University; which being read

On motion of Mr. Stevenson-

2\. Resolved that Mr. Rogers have leave to withdraw his resignation, & that the Board of Visitors express their gratification at the prospect of his continued & valuable services in this Institution.

The Rector submitted to the Board, letters from Professors Courteny & Shale De Vere, asking that the provisions of the Resolutions of the 29: of June 1847 on the subject of the compensations allowed to the different professors, for State Students & which was prospective in its operation, be now extended so as to embrace the previous years tuition! -

On motion of Mr. Stevenson;-

3\. Resolved, that whilst the Board of Visitors would feel highly gratified in having it in their power to grant the application which has been made; yet upon a full consideration of the whole matter; and more especially as the accounts for that period of the institution have been finally liquidated, and reported to the Legislature, they deem it inexpedient to reopen this subject by making the resolution of 1847 retroactive.

Mr. Stevenson from the Committee of Inspection made the following report-

The committee appointed to inspect the various departments of the University have performed the duty assigned them with as much care, as the limited time allowed them would admit, & beg leave to submit the following, as the result of their examination accompanied with such recommendations and suggestions as appeared to them expedient & proper to make-

Your Committee first proceeded in company with the professor of Chemistry and Materia Medica to examine the Chemical laboratory. They found the Chemical apparatus & agents in neat order; apparently well kept & methodically arranged. On examining the lecture room of the professor, your committee found the Benches & seats used by the Students much defaced, & injured, & not sufficiently ample to accommodate the Students. The professor suggested the necessity of furnishing the additional seats required and repairing the old ones; which suggestion your committee approve & recommend to the Board to be carried out by the proctor under the Inspection of the Executive Committee.

Your Committee next proceeded with the professor of Natural Philosophy to inspect the department under his care, & to take pleasure in reporting to the Board that they found the Philosophical apparatus & department in good & as far as they could judge in unexceptionable condition. Your Committee accompanied by the Professor went next to the departments of Anatomy & Surgery, & are gratified in saying that every thing there bore the appearance of being well arranged & in good order; & the various preparations in the Museum in good condition & State of preservation.

The next examination made by the Committee was of the Library- It appeared to be well arranged and in proper order as far as they were enabled to judge from a cursory examination.

The last duty discharged by the Committee was to examine & inspect the buildings and grounds of the University; in relation to which they submit the following remarks. They regret to say that they discovered the most marked evidence of wanton injury and dilapidation, to many of the Dormitories upon both the back ranges; & especially to the walls, doors, & windows of the same. The Venetian doors were in numerous instances cut defaced, & broken, & the walls disfigured & injured. This has been done evidently by the Students; and necessary steps ought to be taken, in the opinion of your Committee, to arrest this growing evil, & which can only result in great injury & destruction of the public property. The Proctor who accompanies your Committee thinks that this will be difficult to do, but the Committee think differently. They would therefore recommend to the Board to authorise the Proctor to have the Venetian doors & windows repaired & repainted, before being again occupied & the inside walls & arches stained & white washed; and then assigned to the Students at the commencement of the next session; to draw their attention to the state and condition of their respective apartments, & in case of injury, to enforce the enactments of the Institution for the preservation of its property.

Your Committee are gratified to report that the general state of the grounds and other property is in good condition and greatly improved under the superintendence of the present Proctor.

Your Committee required lists from the professors of Chemistry & Natural Philosophy of all the philosophical & Chemical apparatus & agents used by them & which lists are annexed as part of this report- All which is respectfully submitted

And: Stevenson

John H. Cocke

The Committee accompanied their report with the following resolutions which were adopted

4\. Resolved that the proctor under the superintendence of the Executive Committee be directed to cause the necessary new Benches to be furnished in the lecture room of the professor of Chemistry & to repair the old seats.

5\. Resolved that the Proctor be authorised to carry out the recommendations of the report as to repairing & repainting the doors & windows of the Dormitories & staining and white washing the inside walls, & arches of the same.

Mr. Randolph from the Committee of Finance presented the following report viz:

The receipts of the year ending May 31st 1848 of the University from all sources have been per

This balance is available for any of the purposes authorised by the Board $2000 of which your Committee would recommend to be appropriated to the annual payment of the Randolph debt.

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Wednesday June 28th 1848: Present as on yesterday: The following proceedings were had.

The Rector summitted to the Board a communication from the Chairman of the Faculty which was read; Whereupon

On motion of Mr. Stevenson

1\. Resolved that when any State Student for the instruction of whom any professor shall have a claim for compensation under the 2d resolution of the 29th June 1847 shall, for any cause, leave the University before the expiration of the course, that then, in such case, compensation shall only be allowed under the aforesaid enactment in proportion to the period of time that such Student shall have been actually instructed: Provided that if such Student withdraw before the 15th of February $15 shall be paid, if after $25.

2\. Resolved that the Proctor be instructed to cause the ends of the terraces to be closed by lattice work, or other sufficient barrier, so as to prevent animals from coming or being brought upon any part of the Terrace.

At 12 OClock.M. Mr. Rives appeared & took his seat at the Board.

On motion by Mr. Randolph Mr. Cabell was unanimously appointed Rector of the Board of Visitors.

Thursday June 29th. 1848: The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as yesterday.

The following proceedings were had.

The following resolution offered by Mr. Stevenson was laid over until the Board may have a full meeting.

1\. Resolved that the Salary of the Proctor be increased to $1500.

On motion by the Rector

2\. Resolved, That the provisions of the enactments prescribing the amount of fee to be paid by Students for attending certain classes enumerated in sec:22 Ch: 4 & designating the character of the degree to be granted for proficiency therein, be extended to the class of Anglo-Saxon in the school of Modern languages.

On motion by the Rector

3\. Resolved that the enactments which prescribe that any Student who may graduate in any two of the branches taught in the school of Modern Languages shall be declared a graduate in that school, be amended so as to read, any two of the Branches except Anglo-Saxon.

On the suggestion of the Faculty the following resolution was adopted-

4\. Resolved that the Faculty be empowered to confer an intermediate degree with the title of "Bachellor of Arts" of the University of Virginia- Graduation in two of the scientific schools; to wit, in any two of the schools of Mathematics, Natural Philosophy, or Chemistry, and in two of the Literary schools, to wit in any two of the schools of Antient languages, Modern languages or two of the languages taught therein, except Anglo-Saxon & Moral Philosophy, together with the attainment of distinction- at an intermediate & a final examination in the junior class of each of the two remaining academic schools, shall entitle the Student to receive this honor.

This degree may be conferred without any general examination at the close of the course of Study such as is required in conferring the degree of "Master of Arts"; but the Candidate shall first satisfy the Faculty of his general literary acquirements by furnishing an appropriate essay composed by himself on some subject of literature or science. And it shall be the duty of the Faculty to select one or more of such essays to be read by the authors respectively on the public day.

On motion by Mr. Randolph

6\. Resolved, That while the Board are happy to express their approbation of the highly satisfactory manner in which the Proctor has discharged his duties; yet they must insist on a rigid compliance with the enactment which requires a regular Inspection of the Fare and manner in which the meals at the Hotels are served up.

On motion by Mr. Randolph

7\. Resolved that Dr. Harrison be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

On motion by Mr. Rives

8\. Resolved, That the sum of $500 (five hundred dollars) be appropriated for purchasing with as little delay as may be, such books as are deemed most important to supply the existing deficiency in the Law Library & that the said sum be applied by the Professor of Law, with every practicable regard to Economy, upon consultation with & the approbation of a committee of this Board consisting of Mr. Stevenson & Mr. Rives.

The following resolution introduced at the suggestion of Mr. Wm. B. Rogers was laid over for further consideration at a full Board.

9\. Resolved that such Dormitories on the lawn as the Executive Committee may deem most suitable for the purpose, be appropriated to the reception of the objects in the Jefferson Museum, the mineralogical & geological collections now in the Rotunda & those which may hereafter be presented to the University.

A communication from the Steward relative to an alledged insufficiency of his compensation, having been laid before the Board; upon consideration of the same it was

On motion by Mr. Cabell,

10\. Resolved, That the resolution adopted on the 29th June 1846, providing that if the full number of thirty two State Students should not be admitted, the proctor may allow the Contractor for boarding said Students to fill up that number from other Students at the same price, be modified, so as to permit said contractor to receive compensation from each of said Students at the rate of Eighty dollars each, instead of the rate heretofore allowed.

11\. Resolved further that the Steward be also allowed to take an additional number of Students not exceeding fifteen over & above the thirty two above referred to, at the rate of Eighty dollars each for the boarding of said Students-

On motion by Mr. Randolph

12\. Resolved that the proctor is directed under the advisement of the Executive Committee to cause to be erected adjoining the building now occupied by the Steward such additional accommodation for Students as the present state of the Funds of the University will permit.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

Teste
