---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1859'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1859) March 17, 1859
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 17, 1859

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

8 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

SPECIAL MEETING
---------------

In pursuance of a call for a special meeting of the Board of Visitors for 17th March 1859 the following members appeared viz Col Thos J. Randolph Rector, J. B. Baldwin J. R. Edmunds and William J. Robertson visitors; There being no quorum present the board adjourned until tomorrow at 12 1/2 oclock.

University of Va March 18th 1859

The same members of the Board appeared as on yesterday with the addition of Messrs Tucker & Joynes, whereupon the Rector called the board to order, when the following proceedings were had.

The Rector laid before the board a letter from Dr. Harrison whereupon it was

Resolved Unanimously That the letter of Dr. Harrison be laid upon the table.

A communication was received from Prof Holmes on the subject of the number of Lectures in his school. Whereupon it was

Resolved that the enactments require at least three lectures a week in each School - but that it be referred to the discretion of Prof Holmes whether he will deliver more than three lectures a week and also how his lectures shall be divided between the classes in History & Literature.

A communication from Prof Holcombe asking leave of absence on account of ill health having been read it was

Resolved that the leave asked for by Mr Holcombe be granted.

The Rector laid before the Board a resolution of the Faculty in relation to the western approaches to the University. Whereupon it was resolved That it be referred to the Executive Committee to make such modifications of the precinct roads as they may deem proper to remove the difficulties complained of.

On the application of Mr J. E. D'Alfonce

Resolved that the proctor be authorized and required with the consent of any pupil in the Class of Mr D'Alfonce to pay at once the entire fee for the present session.

A letter from D. H. London having been read it was

Resolved that the letter of Mr London be referred to Messrs Tucker & Garnett with a request that they consider the subject and report to the next meeting of the board.

Mr Tucker presented a letter addressed to him by Peachy R. Grattan Esqr on the subject of the establishment near the University of a Theological Seminary under the control of the United Synod of the Presbyterian Church. Upon consider- ation whereof it was resolved

1\. That as early as the year 1822 the Visitors of the University in their report to the President and Directors of the Literary fund prepared by Thos. Jefferson "declared a disposition to lend a willing ear to such propositions" and that they "would think it their duty to give every encouragement by answering to those who might chuse such a location for their schools, that the regulations of the University should be so modified and accommodated as to give every facility of access and attendance to their students &c". And that the present Board of Visitors entertain the same general sentiments and are disposed to carry them into effect as far as may be consistent with their paramount duty to retain to the Visitors at all times the untrammeled control of the University.

2\. That a committtee of three visitors be appointed to confer with the Committee of which Mr Grattan is a member and to ascertain whether any definite plan can be suggested such as ought to receive the approval of this board - And that said committee report to the visitors at the next annual meeting.

3\. Resolved that the Secretary furnish to Mr Grattan a copy of these resolutions and also a copy of the report of 1822 referred to so far as it relates to this subject.

The Chairman appointed Messrs Baldwin Tucker and Edmunds a Committee under the foregoing resolution.

Resolved that the Committee on the revision of the enactments consult the Faculty for their advice and suggestions on the subject, and that the said Committee after doing so and reducing the whole into form, cause ten copies to be printed and distributed to the Visitors before the next annual meeting for the final action of the Board at that time.

The Executive Committee submitted the following report.

The Executive Committee report herewith the enactments prescribed by them for the Government of the Infirmary by virtue of authority vested in them by the original resolution establishing the Infirmary.

"Enactments relating to the Infirmary adopted by the Executive Committee."

"1. Every Student at his matriculation shall be required to pay an Infirmary tax of $5.00 which shall entitle him to prescriptions at the Infirmary (unless his disease be of a vicious character) and provided his disease should require his confinement to bed, to lodging, board & nursing, as well as to medical attendance by the health officers of the University.

"2. The foregoing enactment does not entitle a student to gratuitous medical attendance elsewhere than at the Infirmary, nor to be supplied with medicines of any description.

"3. When a student has been removed from his boarding house and has been supplied with board & lodging at the Infirmary the Proctor shall require the Hotel Keeper to refund fifty percent of the amount which the student may have paid for his board for the period of his stay at the Infirmary which shall be paid to the Infirmary fund.

"4. If any student received as an inmate of the Infirmary should not be actually paying board elsewhere he shall be required to pay the full amount of board charged at the University Hotels in addition to the previous payment of the Infirmary tax.

"5. The fund thus accruing from these several sources shall be kept on deposit by the Proctor and shall be disbursed by him on orders given by the health officers of the University in order to meet the current expenses of the Infirmary."

"6. The Health Officers of the University shall be charged with the general administration of the Infirmary and with the duty of rendering medical services to sick students at the Infirmary in all cases where no other physician is employed. For such services the Health officers shall receive each a salary of $500.00/100 payable out of the Infirmary fund in three equal instalments on the 1st of January April and July respectively, and they shall be prohibited from rendering bills against students for medical services performed at the Infirmary.

"Any sick student received at the Infirmary may have the privilege of being attended by the physician of his choice, but if the physician thus selected be other than one of the Health Officers the employment of such physician must be at the expense of the student, the University supplying board and nursing as in other cases.

"7. It shall be at the discretion of the Health Officers to extend the benefits of the Infirmary to such students not within its walls as in their judgment can thereby be as well taken care of as at the Infirmary.

"8. A matron shall be employed at $480 a year who shall be required to find her own provisions but shall be provided with such menial force as may be found necessary.

"9. The superintendent of the grounds and buildings shall be required to render aid to the Health Officers in providing fuel and stores for the Infirmary and to perform any other similar service relating to the administration of the Infirmary whenever said officers may require his cooperation.

"10. The Health Officers are hereby authorized to make a requisition upon any of the University Hotels for the supply of food to patients in the Infirmary provided this conforms to the ordinary fill of fare, the Hotel Keeper being duly remunerated out of the Infirmary fund.

"11. Nothing in these enactments shall be construed to bind the University to provide to any student board, lodging or nursing beyond the capacity of the Infirmary building."

The Proctor having reported the sale by him of the Dawson farm to S. W. Ficklin for the sum of $19,435.50/100 the Board thereupon

Resolved that said sale be approved and confirmed.

Resolved that the Proceeds of the said farm be and are hereby dedicated to the sole purpose of erecting proper buildings for the accommodation of students, the Board being of opinion that such a dedication is an appropriate investment of said fund.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized and instructed to take immediate measures for erecting dormitories to accommodate fifty students, upon the western part of the University grounds- and also such a building to be attached to the Hotel now occupied by Mrs Ross as has been added to the Hotel now occupied by Dr Hamner.

A letter from Hon John Tyler requesting to be furnished from the collection of the manuscripts in possession of the University with autographs of Richard Henry Lee and Frances Lighfoot Lee, and a letter from Richard H. Lee Esqr requesting that similar autographs may be furnished from the same collection to John R. Thompson Esqr having been laid before the Board on consideration whereof

Resolved that while the Board would feel disposed to accede to these requests, they are constrained, with a view to the preservation of the collection, to decline a compliance with all such applications.

Resolved that the Committee on the revision of the enactments consult the Faculty for their advice and suggestions on the subject, and that the said Committee after doing so and reducing the whole into form, cause ten copies to be printed and distributed to the Visitors before the next annual meeting for the final action of the Board at that time.

The Executive Committee submitted the following report.

The Executive Committee report herewith the enactments prescribed by them for the Government of the Infirmary by virtue of authority vested in them by the original resolution establishing the Infirmary.

Resolved that the Committee on the revision of the enactments consult the Faculty for their advice and suggestions on the subject, and that the said Committee after doing so and reducing the whole into form, cause ten copies to be printed and distributed to the Visitors before the next annual meeting for the final action of the Board at that time.

The Executive Committee submitted the following report.

The Executive Committee report herewith the enactments prescribed by them for the Government of the Infirmary by virtue of authority vested in them by the original resolution establishing the Infirmary.
