---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1861'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Record of the Proceedings of a Called Meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held in the City of Richmond, May 27th, 1861, by call of the Rector.

The Board met in the law office of P. H. Aylett Esqr. at one o'clock. Present Col T. J. Randolph, Rector, Wm. H. Terrell, Esqr., Col. Jno B. Baldwin, P.H. Aylett, Esqr., & Franklin Minor. The meeting was called to order by the Rector & on motion of Mr Aylett

Resolved That Franklin Minor be appointed Secretary pro tempore.

On motion of Franklin Minor the following preamble & resolution were adopted, viz

It being stated to the Board by a member that the Laboratory & Professors of Chemistry at the University can render efficient service to the state at this time by the manufacture of fulminating powder for caps & fuses.

Therefore Resolved

That the whole means & materials of Chemical preparation at the University be offered to the State for immediate service

On motion of Col Baldwin

Resolved

That the Secretary transmit a copy of the foregoing preamble & resolution to the Governor of the State.

The Board then adjourned to meet this evening at the Office of the Inspector General at 8 O'clock.

INSPECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE.

Richmond Va.

May 27th 1861

The Board met at 8 o'clock pursuant to adjournment. Present The Rector, Wm. H. Terrell, Col. Baldwin, P.H. Aylett, Jno. R. Edmunds, & Franklin Minor.

A communication was received from the Governor of the State, in the following words, to wit,

Executive Department

Richmond, May 27th 1861

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Va.

The following advice of Council approved by the Governor, is respectfully submitted to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The Council unanimously advise that the Board of Visitors be requested to establish at the University of Virginia a laboratory in connection with the Ordinance department of the State for the purpose of assisting in the preparation of munitions of war, & that this duty of superintendence & management be assigned to professors, to whom no additional compensation shall be given.

Very respectfully

George W. Munford

Seal of the Comth

Whereupon the Rector offered the following Resolutions, which was adopted.

Resolved that the Faculty, in consultation with the Executive Committee, be requested to carry out the Resolution of the Board of Visitors of this date accepted by the Executive Council of the Commonwealth.

The following resolutions were offered by the Mr. Minor, to wit-

Resolved 1. That a School of Military Science & Civil Engineering be established in the University.

2\. That the instruction in the School of Military Science & Civil Engineering shall be given by a Professor & two Assistant Instructors.

3\. That the Professor shall be appointed by the Board, & shall receive the same salary & allowance for house rent as the other professors, & that the Assistant Instructors shall be appointed as Assistants are now appointed in other schools.

4\. That in this school shall be taught the SCIENCE OF WAR, in all its branches, & CIVIL ENGINEERING, & a degree shall be awarded in this school in the same manner & on the same principles as in the other schools, with the title of "Graduate in the School of Military Science & civil engineering: & a Certificate of proficiency may be awarded in the branches of Civil Engineering or tactics separately.

5\. The fees for instruction in this school shall be —

6\. That students may attend the class of Civil Engineering or tactics, without attending the whole school or paying for either class-

7\. That the Class of tactics shall be opened immediately for a Course of instruction to be continued during the vacation, the fee for which Course shall be ——

8\. That the Board will proceed at once to the selection of a Professor of Military Science & Civil Engineering, who shall forthwith organize the class of tactics, with such assistant instructors, temporarily & permanently appointed, as he can get, & make the necessary arrangements to continue it until the 1st day of October next.

These resolutions were discussed & the question taken on each separately.

Mr. Terell called the Ayes & Noes on the first resolution, which were ordered & the vote stood

Ayes The Rector, Baldwin, Edmunds, Aylett & Minor.

Noes Mr Terrell.

So the 1st Resolution was adopted.

The 2nd Resolution was amended on the motion of Col. Baldwin by inserting "if necessary" in the last line but one, between the words and & two, & then adopted nem. con.

The 3d Resolution was adopted unanimously.

The 4th Resolution was amended on motion of Col Baldwin by inserting the words "& army organization" after the words tactics in the last line & then adopted, nem. con.

The 7th Resolution was amended, on motion of Col Baldwin by inserting the words "& army organization after the word tactics, & by filling the blank with the words "fifteen dollars."

For the 8th Resolution the following substitute was offered by Mr Edmunds to wit-

Resolved That the Executive Committee be authorized to make temporary arrangements for instruction in tactics & army organization till the beginning of the next session, & that the Rector be instructed to advertize that a professor of Military Science & Civil Engineering will be elected by the Board at its July meeting.

Which substitute for the 8th Resolution was adopted.

On motion of Mr Minor.

Resolved 1. That the Rector be requested to apply to the Governor of the State for such supply of muskets & other small arms as will be needed for the class of Tactics & army organization, & for one or more Cannon for the use of the School in Artillery drill.

2\. That the Rector confer with the Faculty in order to ascertain their opinion as to the best way to retrench the present expenditures, in order to raise a fund for the support of the School of Military Science &c & report their opinion together with his own to the July meeting.

3\. That all the dormitories be rented for the next session as single dormitories, with the condition however, that they may be made double in the event that all other licensed means of accommodation for students be exceeded.

4\. That the Executive Committee be instructed to expend no money for the public inauguration of the Statue of Jefferson

5\. That the annual appropriation to the library be suspended until further action of the Board.

These five resolutions were unanimously adopted.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
