---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1861'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
SPECIAL MEETING
---------------

The Board met pursuant to the adjourning order of July 5th 1861. Present Thomas J. Randolph Rector. Franklin Minor, John R. Edmundes, James Neeson, P. H. Aylett and Wm. H. Terrell visitors, when the following proceedings were had.

The Board of Visitors having on July 4th 1860 adopted the following resolution.

"Resolved that the Professor of Modern Languages be relieved from the duty of delivering lectures on History and Literature in connection with his school, and that he be allowed in future but one assistant instructor to be employed at the discretion of the Professor in the instruction of his class."

And having recieved from the Faculty a memorial on the Subject.

Resolved unanimously that the Board of Visitors adhere to this previous resolution.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to borrow for the University such sums as may be needed prior to July 1st 1861, not exceeding $10,000 in the sum total.

The Board having under consideration the letter of Prof Schele De Vere, regret the causes which in his opinion protracted his absence, a month beyond the Commencement of the session; but the Board desire distinctly to express their appreciation of the great importance of punctuality in the discharge of all duties enjoined by the enactment.

Mr Spooners application to be paid the sum of one hundred dollars, which was deducted from the amount of his claim for repairs to the terraces, was taken up, and on motion was rejected.

Whereas on the first day of February 1861 Professor Holcombe addressed to the Rector a letter of resignation in the following words to wit,

In pursuance of the enactments of the University, I request permission to resign the Chair which I now have the honour to hold in that institution. I desire this resignation to take effect at the end of the session, or at the option of the Board, any earlier period, at which the vacancy can be permanently filled. I prefer the request under an earnest conviction that it is my duty to yeld to the wishes of a great number of my fellow citizens who have called upon me to become a candidate for the approaching State convention. I trust that it is unnecessary for me to assure the Board, of the reluctance with which I have taken this step, My duties at the University afford ample scope for the gratification of all my tastes and my whole ambition; and the steadily increasing number of my students furnish the most satisfactory evidence that not withstanding much misapprehension as to the character of my instruction, it commands the confidence and approbation of the community at large.

I have acted upon a persuasion shared by men of all parties, that the peace property, liberty, and civilization, of the commonwealth, are at stake, and that under such circumstances, no patriotic citizen should hesitate to take any place in which those who agree with him, as to the proper policy of the Republic, suppose that he can render most service - I desire to give all the instruction during the session, which will be compatible with my attendance in the Convention. During my absence, I can make such arrangements with the help kindly proffered me, of my colleagues Mr Minor and Mr Bledsoe, and with the assistance of my brother the Librarian in reading a number of written Lectures, as to render the course almost as complete, as if there had been no suspension of my own duties. The Examinations for the certificate of Proficiency and for graduation in the School of Law I can of course conduct as usual.

Which letter was laid before the Executive Committee consisting of Messrs Minor, Baldwin and Randolph and upon which said Executive Committee took such action as they entered on the 8th February 1861 in the record of their proceedings.

And whereas the enactments for the government of the University require "That no Professor shall be at liberty to resign his office, without leave of the Board, unless such resignation be made at the end of the session, and after at least three months notice shall have been given, in writing, to the Rector, by the Professor, that he intends unconditionally to vacate his office at the end of the session."

Resolved that this Board accept the resignation of Prof Holcombe of the Law School to take effect at the end of this session; but this acceptance is not intended to approve of his resignation contrary to the Statutes of the University.

Resolved that this Board without being understood at all to approve of Mr Holcombes absence from the University, will sanction the present arrangement for the instruction of his class until his return to the discharge of his duties.

On motion of Mr Neeson it was

1st Resolved that Galts Statue of Jefferson be inaugurated at the University on the 4th day of July next.

2nd Resolved that at the Inauguration three addresses be delivered one on "The Declaration of Independence" another on "The Act for Religious Freedom", and another on "The University of Virginia".

3rd Resolved that Prof James P. Holcombe be requested to deliver the address on "The Declaration of Independence" that Hon George W. Summers be requested to deliver "The address on "the Act for Religious Freedom" and that the Hon R. M. T. Hunter be requested to deliver the address on "The University of Virginia".

4th Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to invite a substitute or substitutes for said speaker if necessary.

5th Resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized to adopt and conduct all necessary proceedings for the inauguration of the statue.

Resolved that the next commencement day of the University shall be the 3rd day of July 1861.

Resolved that the Regular annual meetings of the Board shall hereafter be on the first day of July.

The Board then adjourned sine die.

In pursuance of the enactments of the University, I request permission to resign the Chair which I now have the honour to hold in that institution. I desire this resignation to take effect at the end of the session, or at the option of the Board, any earlier period, at which the vacancy can be permanently filled. I prefer the request under an earnest conviction that it is my duty to yeld to the wishes of a great number of my fellow citizens who have called upon me to become a candidate for the approaching State convention. I trust that it is unnecessary for me to assure the Board, of the reluctance with which I have taken this step, My duties at the University afford ample scope for the gratification of all my tastes and my whole ambition; and the steadily increasing number of my students furnish the most satisfactory evidence that not withstanding much misapprehension as to the character of my instruction, it commands the confidence and approbation of the community at large.

I have acted upon a persuasion shared by men of all parties, that the peace property, liberty, and civilization, of the commonwealth, are at stake, and that under such circumstances, no patriotic citizen should hesitate to take any place in which those who agree with him, as to the proper policy of the Republic, suppose that he can render most service - I desire to give all the instruction during the session, which will be compatible with my attendance in the Convention. During my absence, I can make such arrangements with the help kindly proffered me, of my colleagues Mr Minor and Mr Bledsoe, and with the assistance of my brother the Librarian in reading a number of written Lectures, as to render the course almost as complete, as if there had been no suspension of my own duties. The Examinations for the certificate of Proficiency and for graduation in the School of Law I can of course conduct as usual.

In pursuance of the enactments of the University, I request permission to resign the Chair which I now have the honour to hold in that institution. I desire this resignation to take effect at the end of the session, or at the option of the Board, any earlier period, at which the vacancy can be permanently filled. I prefer the request under an earnest conviction that it is my duty to yeld to the wishes of a great number of my fellow citizens who have called upon me to become a candidate for the approaching State convention. I trust that it is unnecessary for me to assure the Board, of the reluctance with which I have taken this step, My duties at the University afford ample scope for the gratification of all my tastes and my whole ambition; and the steadily increasing number of my students furnish the most satisfactory evidence that not withstanding much misapprehension as to the character of my instruction, it commands the confidence and approbation of the community at large.

I have acted upon a persuasion shared by men of all parties, that the peace property, liberty, and civilization, of the commonwealth, are at stake, and that under such circumstances, no patriotic citizen should hesitate to take any place in which those who agree with him, as to the proper policy of the Republic, suppose that he can render most service - I desire to give all the instruction during the session, which will be compatible with my attendance in the Convention. During my absence, I can make such arrangements with the help kindly proffered me, of my colleagues Mr Minor and Mr Bledsoe, and with the assistance of my brother the Librarian in reading a number of written Lectures, as to render the course almost as complete, as if there had been no suspension of my own duties. The Examinations for the certificate of Proficiency and for graduation in the School of Law I can of course conduct as usual.
