---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1872'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
To the Experimental farm

$1000.00

To the Miller Scholarships

1000.00

To the Professorship of Agricultural Chemistry- salary

500.00

To Professorship of Agriculture- salary

2000.00

To Professorship of Applied Mathematics &c

500.00

For Repairs of Farm House not exceeding

50.00

For purchase of Books & Drawings for school Applied Math. &c not exceeding

150.00

For building stable & tool House & purchase of mules ($200 of which will be paid out of the interest to accrue July 1st 1873)

600.00

\* \*see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\] For salaries of 15 Professors

15,400

For salaries of adjunct profs. \* of Analytical Chy.

500

\* For salaries of assistants in Mathematics, Demonstrator of Anatomy- assistant in Applied Mathematics & Draftsman

1,600.00

For salaries of Officers (Left blank to be acted on at the meeting in September next)

For advertising in newspapers

$600.00

For printing Catalogue (subject to be reduced by advertisements inserted as ordered

400.00

For printing blanks &c

140.00

1,400.00

For interest on debt

6,350.00

For repairs and improvements

2,000.00

For Labor

1,200.00

For Library

200.00

For contingent expenses

1,250.00

For ice

200.00

For fuel (original purchase)

6,000.00

And such additional amount, if any as may prove to be indispensably necessary.

For gas in public rooms, Laboratory &c

500.00

For diplomas

300.00

For school of Surgery

100.00

For school of Anatomy

100.00

For school of Chemistry

350.00

For school of Natural Philosophy

100.00

For school of Medicine (Prof. Harrison)

150.00

For insurance on buildings

610.00

To pay the debts of the University, viz:

Matured Bond debt- Martha Randolph Bonds due 1867

3500.00

Estate of L. M. Coleman

1000.00

Prof. C. S. Venable

1250.00

Bonds for purchase of Carr's Hill

2000.00

7,750.00

To pay deficiency of last Fiscal year

3,206.05

Of the Infirmary Fund as follows

To matron

400.00

To servant

135.00

To Salary 3 physicians $500 each

1500.00

To fuel

85.00

To gas

25.00

To ice

15.00

Repairs & contingencies

40.00

2,200.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d Ult:

Present- B. Johnson Barbour, Rector pro temp, R. G. H. Kean, E. B. Montague, Joseph T. Campbell, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, W. R. Berkeley and Micajah Woods.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Barbour, Rector pro temp.

The Board proceeded by ballot to elect a Rector, with the following result: Mr. R. G. H. Kean four votes, Mr. B. J. Barbour two votes and Mr. Joseph T. Campbell one vote- Mr. Barbour not voting- Mr. Kean having received a majority of the votes cast he was declared elected and on motion his election was made unanimous.

Mr. Kean in a short address returned thanks for the honor and assumed the Chair.

Messrs R. G. H. Kean, B. Johnson Barbour and Micajah Woods elected as the Executive Committee.

The following Committees were appointed by the Rector:

Finance- Messrs Walton & Campbell

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley.

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Barbour

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

On motion resolved, that the Rector be added to the Finance Committee.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications

1\. From the Chairman of the Faculty transmitting.

2\. Report of the Faculty made in pursuance of a resolution of of the Board adopted at the meeting in May last

3\. Report of the Proctor made in pursuance of a resolution adopted at the same time.

4\. Report of Prof. Mallet as to the Experimantal Farm.

Resolved, that the applications of Profs Venable, Davis, Southall and Boeck for the Pavilion vacated by the death \[of\] Dr. Maupin be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings for its consideration and report to the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Monday next at 9 A.M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, all the members of the Board, including Mr. Baker.

The Board was called to order by the Rector.

A communication was received from Prof. Venable asking the permission of the Board "to decline to be reelected Chairman (of the Faculty) for the next session".

A communication was received from Prof. Holmes asking to be relieved from the duties of the school of Political Economy.

A communication having been received from Prof. G. F. Holmes asking to be relieved from the conduct of the School of Political Economy, said communication was duly considered and it was resolved as the opinion of the Board of Visitors that in view of all the circumstances it is desirable that Prof. Holmes shall continue to discharge the duties of said school-and the secretary be instructed to send a copy of this Resolution to Prof. Holmes.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A. M.

June 25th 1872

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present- All the members of the Board.

The following communications were presented and laid before the Board: Report of the Librarian and report of Prof. Mallet of the Donations to the Laboratory and Farm.

The Finance Committee submitted their Report.

A communication was received from Prof. Harrison, which on motion was referred to the Committee on Apparatus.

Resolved That the Committee on Finance inquire whether any curtailment of expense can be judiciously effected in the employment of a Carpenter and Janitor.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted their Report, on consideration whereof

Resolved that the Report be adopted, except in so far as it relates to the assignment of Pavilions to the Professors-reserving that part of the same for future consideration.

A communication was received from a Committee of Students of the University in reference to the Election of Chairman of the Faculty- requesting the reelection of Prof. Venable as Chairman.

Resolved, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Grounds & Buildings, the vacant Pavilion and lot formerly occupied by Dr. Maupin be assigned to Dr. J. L. Davis, and that the Pavilion now occupied by Dr. Davis be placed at the disposal of Prof. Venable and that Prof. Boeck be assigned the Pavilion now occupied by Prof. Venable in the event that the latter shall take that of Dr. Davis, but in case Prof. Venable prefers retaining his present residence then the Pavilion of Dr. Davis assigned to Prof. Boeck.

The Library Committee submitted their Report which upon being read and considered was adopted.

Resolved, that the Faculty, individually and collectively are invited to make such suggestions to the Board of Visitors as they may deem proper.

Your Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg leave to report that they have made such an inspection as seemed to them necessary to the discharge of the duties, and regret to say that they have found much delapidation in the buildings and great disfigurement in the grounds. The buildings are out of repair in various particulars, but more especially in the roofing of the terrace, and the "Dawson Row". The grounds are checkered with paths that are unsightly & entirely unnecessary. Your Committee are aware that the repairs desirable would require an expenditure beyond the revenue of the Institution at present but they recommend that provision be made for putting in order the roofs referred to, as the damage already serious is becoming worse every day and further delay in the matter will involve heavier cost. They are also apprised of the difficulty of preventing the short cuts across the ground but they nevertheless are of the opinion that the evil can be corrected by active attention and they therefore recommend that the Proctor be required to put in operation every expedient practicable to this end.

Greater industry should be exhibited in breaking them up than there is in making them.

The Committee on Finance having already recommended the adoption of the Proctor's Estimate for repairs, and having approved the suggestion of the Faculty; Report as to the labor essential to the order and preservation of the buildings & grounds, the Committee deem it unnecessary to take in consideration these questions, and are not in possession of any facts that render it advisable for them to supplement the action of the Finance Committee.

The attention of the Committee has been directed to some shanties just over road from "the Infirmary" and adjacent to a settlement known as "Canada", and as they are not necessary and are conspicuously detractive from the completeness of the lawn to which they are attached it is deemed best that they should be removed and it is therefore proposed that the Proctor be required to take them away and as soom as possible put the ground in grass.

Your Committee have inquired into the claims of the applicants for the Pavilion formerly occupied by Dr. Maupin and after careful consideration have become convinced that the large family of Dr. Davis requires increased accommodations, and therefore recommend his application to the favor of the Board. We further advise that the present residence of Dr. Davis be put at the refusal of Prof. Venable and that Prof. Boeck be assigned the house now occupied by Prof. Venable in the event that the latter shall take that of Dr. Davis. If Prof. Venable should prefer to remain where he is we recommend that Prof. Boeck be allowed the house now in occupancy of Dr. Davis.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon inspection they found the Library in good condition there are many suggestions that might be made with a view to its improvements- such as the procurement of glass doors for many of the cases for the protection of the books, and others, but the financial embarrassment of the University is such as to render the requisite appropriations therefore inexpedient at this time.

The Committee would recommend that the Librarian be required to indicate by label on each book donated to the University the name of the donor thereof.

The Committee would further recommend that the Board acknowledge by appropriate resolutions of thanks the reception of the donations made to the Library during the past years, as reported by the Librarian.

The Committee would also suggest that the investments made for the benefit of the Library as well as the Exchange of books made as set forth, in the report of the Librarian to this meeting of the Board be approved.

Resolved, that the Secretary of the Board be requested to express the thanks of this body in writing to the parties respectively who have made donations to the Library as well as the Laboratory & Farm, as reported by Prof. Mallet.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

R. G. H. Kean Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Annual Report of Mason Gordon, Esq. as Commr of Accounts was laid before the Board.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted their Report which on being read and considered was on motion adopted.

Report of the Committee

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they proceeded in discharge of the duties imposed upon them to inspect both the Laboratory and the Philosophical Apparatus they were fortunate enough to find both Dr. Mallet and Professor Smith in their respective Departments who not only gave them every facility for the desired inspection but took occasion most kindly to make the visit of the Committee both pleasant & instructive by the completeness & fullness of their exhibition of the objects of greatest interest in each of the branches.

The Committee are gratified to report that in both cases they found the Apparatus and all matters connected with both Departments in thorough order and most systematically arranged-Prof. Smith has within the past year or two enriched his collection (especially in the branch of acoustics) with many valuable instruments and Dr. Mallet has added to his collection many interesting specimens of the progressive process in the manufacture of Pottery and Leather.

The Committee were unable to give as full an inspection of these Departments as they desired, but they saw enough to assure them that both Departments are in the highest state of efficiency, and that no appropriations of any moment will be required by either Professor. It is obvious however that in the Department of Pure Chemistry an appropriation may be needed to put it on the same footing with the Departments visited today, and in conclusion they would suggest that the appropriation of $350 as recommended by the Faculty be favorably considered when the General appropriation bill shall come up.

All of which is respectfully submitted

Resolved that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (U S. of America) being advised of the proposed visit to England in July next of Professor J. W. Mallet desire hereby to accredit him as a worthy representative of this Institution to any Literary or Scientific Associations with \[which\] he may wish to communicate, and would also invoke in his behalf the good offices of all persons disposed to promote his plans for establishing pleasant and advantageous relations between the Scientific and Literary Associations of Europe and Virginia.

Resolved, that the Secretary be instructed to forward a copy of this Resolution (with the seal of the University attached to Professor Mallet.

Resolved, that on the recommendation of the Faculty, Charles E. Stewart a student in the School of Law be permitted to have his Examination early in the next Session at such time as the Faculty shall appoint.

Resolved that a committee of two be appointed, to confer with the Society of Alumni of the University for the purpose of securing the in concurence in some general plan for the endowment of chairs in the Institution with the assurance on the part of the Board, that if the said Society of Alumni will unite heavily in such enterprose, this Board will take such action as may lie in their power to give efficiency to the scheme concurred in-

Messrs Barbour and Woods appointed as the Committee under the foregoing Resolution.

By general consent of the Board Prof. Charles S. Venable is allowed to withdraw his letter requesting not to be reelected Chairman of the Faculty.

Prof. Charles S. Venable was unanimously reelected Chairman of the Faculty.

Ordered In pursuance and acceptance of the proposal of the Faculty that ten per centum upon so much of the fees of each professor for the ensuing session (exclusive of salary) as exceeds one thousand dollars be carried to the credit of the general fund of the University.

This order is not regarded as in any wise affecting the question of a maximum.

Ordered That in lieu of the rent now paid by the Hotel Keepers, that they respectively be charged the sum of seven dollars and fifty cents per session for each student boarding with them respectively, provided that the amount so paid shall not in any case be less than $250.00.

Resolved That every student upon matriculating shall be required to pay the room rent now prescribed by existing regulations whether he board in or out of the precincts of the University, provided that students who may be permitted to board out of the University shall be required to pay only the sum of $7.50 per session and provided further that the faculty in their discretion may exempt from all charge for rent students forming messes to board themselves or students otherwise exceptionally situated.

Ordered further that in the execution of the foregoing order it is the expectation & desire of this Board that no student will be permitted to room or board outside of the Institution- as long as there are vacant rooms except for good cause shown.

Ordered that the enactment of the last session allowing students to change their Boarding houses at the end of a quarter, retaining their rooms, furniture and servants' attendance, be modified so far as to require that upon two weeks notice to the Keeper of the House whither the student removes, the Hotel Keeper whose house is left may if he thinks fit, with the consent of the Chairman of the Faculty, remove his furniture and withdraw his servants attendance from the room occupied by any student, who has thus removed, and furniture and servants attendance shall from that time be supplied by the other.

Resolved That the compensation allowed to the commissioner of accounts be fixed at one hundred dollars for each current year and that the resolution adopted on the 23d of May last be repealed so far as it applies to the compensation of said Commissioner.

Ordered, That with the view to reduce the Expense of printing the Catalogue the Faculty are authorised to permit such advertisements as they may approve to be inserted on the blank pages, and on leaves to be inserted at the end, upon terms to be fixed as they may direct.

A communication was received from the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund expressive of their preference for a retention of full Professorship of Applied Chemistry, and in the event of such retention proposing appropriations; out if the Visitors deem it necessary at present for the interest of the University, to adopt the plan suggested by the Faculty they will acquiesce in it as a temporary arrangement and in that event, will modify the appropriations proposed above as may appear proper.

In order to cover the cost of fuel and lights consumed in the Public Rooms

Ordered That from this time the fee for the use of the Library & Public Rooms be twenty dollars ($20).

The Board adjourned to meet at 9 A.M. tomorrow.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

R. G. H. Kean Rector.

The Board met pursuant to adjournement last night.

Present the same members of the Board as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Berkeley, who was called to Richmond on public business.

1\. Resolved That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia receive with lively sensibility the announcement of the zeal and unanimity with which the society of Alumni have entered upon the consideration of a plan for aiding the University in the improvement of its finances & the enlargement of its theatre of usefulness.

2\. They would further express their hearty approbation of the plan for reading these results as sketched by Mr. Blakey in his conference with this Board yesterday.

3\. They reiterate their earnest wish & purpose in every possible way to encourage & cooperate with the Society of Alumni in the prosecution of this laudable enterprise, and will be ready at any and all times to consider and act upon any suggestions touching this matter which may come to them.

4\. Resolved That the Committee appointed yesterday be charged with the duty of delivering these Resolutions to the Society of Alumni and it is further instructed to confer with the Committee of that Society whenever it shall be desired.

Ordered That the Rector execute the agreement dated June 27th 1872 with the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund which is as follows:

Whereas the following order was made at a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held the 7th day of September 1870, viz: Whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund have agreed to make an appropriation for building a house for Professor Mallet on University ground upon special condition that, in case of separation of said Trust Fund from the University, the prime cost of said house shall be refunded, the Rector is hereby authorized & instructed to enter into such written legal agreement, as shall bind their Board or their successors to fulfil said condition, if said separation should occur: "& whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund did, in pursuance of their agreement, appropriate the sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars for building a house for Professor Mallet, which has been erected on University ground: Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby agree, & bind themselves to refund the said sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund whenever a separation of said Fund from the University of Virginia shall take place- In testimony whereof, I, Robert G. H. Kean, Rector of the University of Virginia, have hereunto signed my name, and affixed the seal of the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia this 27th day of June 1872.

County of Albemarle, to wit:

I Micajah Woods a Notary Public in and for the county aforesaid do certify that R. G. H. Kean, Rector of the University of Virginia whose name is signed to the foregoing deed, dated the 27th day of June 1872 has acknowledged the same before me in my county aforesaid this 27th day of June 1872

Micajah Woods, N. P.

And cause the seal of the Rector and Board of Visitors to be attached thereto and deliver the same to the said Board of Trustees.

Ordered That the policy of procuring special endowments of particular schools, by inviting liberalty in this direction by calling attention in the Annual Catalogue to the usefulness of such benefactions and offering to allow donors who will contribute not less than $20,000 to endow an existing school, or not less than $50,000 to endow a non-existing school & to assign to such school such appellation as they may think fit— be approved & that appropriate means be used to secure endowments upon this plan.

Ordered That, the General Assembly of Virginia be and the same is hereby memorialized to amend the existing law as to constitute the state, the trustee & custodian of donating for such endowments whether in the form of money or stocks & whether the stocks be certificates of state debt or other-the state undertaking to carry out the wishes of the donor as expressed in writing at the time of the gift- and that the Rector be and he is hereby requested to draft such amendment as will effectuate this purpose & transmit it to the Governor of Virginia with his annual report.

Ordered That hereafter all appropriations regular and special shall as far as possible be made specific & in detail.

Ordered That it is forbidden under penalty of not being allowed in the accounts to transcend the limits of the appropriations made for particular object or to transfer appropriations or any fact thereof from one object to another and that the Chairman of the Faculty and the Commissioner of Accounts in making the settlements be specially charged to see to the observance of this regulation and that in his annual report the Proctor shall state under each head of Expenditure not only the amt. expended but also what was the appropriation therefor.

Ordered That with a view to maintain the requisite subordination on the part of the inferior officers of the University and the proper responsibility of all, communications from the Board to them & from them to the Board in all cases shall be transmitted through the Chairman of the Faculty.

Ordered That a revisal of the enactments of the Board of Visitors be made by Prof. J. B. Minor, Prof. Stephen O. Southall & Prof. J. L. Cabell- who are hereby appointed a Committee for that purpose & that they report at the special meeting of the Board to be held on the 19th day of September next- if practicable.

Ordered That the resolution passed by the Board in 1870 whereby the salary of the Demonstrator of Anatomy was increased $250 be rescinded.

Ordered, That the pay of assistants in the school of Applied Methematics which has heretofore been $400 be increased to $600 to wit, four hundred dollars for the salary of an assistant and two hundred dollars for the salary of a draftsman.

Ordered as recommended by the Faculty. That from and after the close of the session of 1872-3 the fees in all the schools be increased by the sum of $5.00 except in the School of Law which will remain as now fixed- and that in the third Laboratory Class (the special course for medical students) the fee is reduced as to medical students to $5.00 said increase to pass into the general funds of the University- Provided however that if the affairs of the University shall have so improved as to justify it in the opinion of the Executive Committee before the time of the publication of the next annual Catalogue- they may in their discretion omit the publication of this change in said Catalogue and suspend its operation.

Ordered That (in pursuance of the proposal of Professor Peters communicated to the Board through the Rector) until otherwise ordered the aggregate of the fees in the Schools of Latin and Greek be equally divided between the professors of those schools- provided that the existing regulations in respect to the amount of fees to be received by each professor shall still have application to the receipts of each of the professors of the said schools.

Ordered, as recommended by the Faculty That all assistant instructors in the several schools, including the demonstrator of Anatomy and the adjunct professor of Applied Chemistry are recognized by this board in a relation of strict subordinations to their respective principals; and all applications for increase of pay or emoluments, or for any modification of relations between them and their respective principals shall be referred to the Professor and the Faculty before it will be considered by the Board.

On motion Resolved that the consideration of the recommendation of the Faculty in regard to Review Examinations for the degree of Master of Arts be postponed until the meeting in September next.

The Board of Visitors have learned with deep regret the precarious state of Prof. Schele de Vere's health, rendering, in the opinion of his medical advisers entire abstinence from mental labor for one year essential to the preservation of life-

In view of his twenty eight years of faithful and efficient service, the Board anxious to afford him the needed rest, so far as can be done consistently with efficiency of instruction in his school, do order

That Prof. Schele have leave to abstain for one year from personal exertion in the instruction of his classes, and if he so desires to leave the University for travel, upon condition that he shall first make arrangements for adequate instruction in his school as shall be approved by a commission to consist of the Executive Committee of the Board, and Professors Gildersleeve, Peters and Cabell.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A.M.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

R. G. H. Kean Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Baker absent on account of indisposition.

Whereas the Board of Visitors is called upon to provide for instruction in three distinct departments of Chemical Science, viz: Pure, Applied, & Analytical Chemistry—and as from the necessity of the case heretofore Pure Chemistry has been assigned to one chair, and consequently the other two subjects have been relegated to a second & distinct professorship- and whereas with the lights now before them such a distribution of these subjects seems to the Board to be most unequal. It is therefore ordered that for the present (it being regarded as strictly a temporary arrangement, to be made permanent or abolished as experience may dictate) that Pure & Applied Chemistry shall be united under one professorship and the department of Analytical Chemistry be assigned to another Chair whose occupant shall be entitled Adjunct Professor- subject to the control and under the constant supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry-the duties of said Adjunct Professor shall be prescribed by the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry except that it is hereby ordered that the said adjunct Professor shall be required to deliver a series of Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry.

Prof. J. W. Mallet is hereby appointed to the Chair of Pure & Applied Chemistry, subject in all that related to salary & income to the rules & regulations which govern the Faculty at large.

Frank P. Dunnington is hereby appointed to the Chair of Analytical Chemistry with the title of Adjunct Professor, and subject (as recited above) to the discretion and supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry- the said Adjunct Professor shall receive for his services the sum of $500 and the fees in his school to the extent of $300—if they produce so much—any excess over that sum to be paid into the general treasury of the University.

Absent Messrs Walton & Campbell—left for home.

Ordered That the following appropriations are made for the ensuing fiscal year for the purposes named- to wit:

Of the funds appropriated by the Trustees of the Miller Fund

Of the funds of the University (General) as follows:

see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\]

Ordered That the Executive Committee of the Board, be charged with the duty of making such arrangments as may be necessary for temporarily providing for the present deficiency shown by the Proctor's Report, and for the payment of the Bond for Carr's Hill which matures in July next, and for meeting such other expenditures as may be necessary to be provided for before the next meeting of the Board.

Ordered That it is not intended by the foregoing appropriation that the salary of Prof. Mallet shall in any event exceed three thousand dollars ($3000) inclusive of the sum of $500 appropriated by the "Miller Trustees" to the "Prof. of Agricultural Chemistry".

The Board adjourned to meet on the 19th of September next.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d Ult:

Present- B. Johnson Barbour, Rector pro temp, R. G. H. Kean, E. B. Montague, Joseph T. Campbell, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, W. R. Berkeley and Micajah Woods.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Barbour, Rector pro temp.

The Board proceeded by ballot to elect a Rector, with the following result: Mr. R. G. H. Kean four votes, Mr. B. J. Barbour two votes and Mr. Joseph T. Campbell one vote- Mr. Barbour not voting- Mr. Kean having received a majority of the votes cast he was declared elected and on motion his election was made unanimous.

Mr. Kean in a short address returned thanks for the honor and assumed the Chair.

Messrs R. G. H. Kean, B. Johnson Barbour and Micajah Woods elected as the Executive Committee.

The following Committees were appointed by the Rector:

Finance- Messrs Walton & Campbell

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley.

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Barbour

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

On motion resolved, that the Rector be added to the Finance Committee.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications

1\. From the Chairman of the Faculty transmitting.

2\. Report of the Faculty made in pursuance of a resolution of of the Board adopted at the meeting in May last

3\. Report of the Proctor made in pursuance of a resolution adopted at the same time.

4\. Report of Prof. Mallet as to the Experimantal Farm.

Resolved, that the applications of Profs Venable, Davis, Southall and Boeck for the Pavilion vacated by the death \[of\] Dr. Maupin be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings for its consideration and report to the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Monday next at 9 A.M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, all the members of the Board, including Mr. Baker.

The Board was called to order by the Rector.

A communication was received from Prof. Venable asking the permission of the Board "to decline to be reelected Chairman (of the Faculty) for the next session".

A communication was received from Prof. Holmes asking to be relieved from the duties of the school of Political Economy.

A communication having been received from Prof. G. F. Holmes asking to be relieved from the conduct of the School of Political Economy, said communication was duly considered and it was resolved as the opinion of the Board of Visitors that in view of all the circumstances it is desirable that Prof. Holmes shall continue to discharge the duties of said school-and the secretary be instructed to send a copy of this Resolution to Prof. Holmes.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A. M.

Your Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg leave to report that they have made such an inspection as seemed to them necessary to the discharge of the duties, and regret to say that they have found much delapidation in the buildings and great disfigurement in the grounds. The buildings are out of repair in various particulars, but more especially in the roofing of the terrace, and the "Dawson Row". The grounds are checkered with paths that are unsightly & entirely unnecessary. Your Committee are aware that the repairs desirable would require an expenditure beyond the revenue of the Institution at present but they recommend that provision be made for putting in order the roofs referred to, as the damage already serious is becoming worse every day and further delay in the matter will involve heavier cost. They are also apprised of the difficulty of preventing the short cuts across the ground but they nevertheless are of the opinion that the evil can be corrected by active attention and they therefore recommend that the Proctor be required to put in operation every expedient practicable to this end.

Greater industry should be exhibited in breaking them up than there is in making them.

The Committee on Finance having already recommended the adoption of the Proctor's Estimate for repairs, and having approved the suggestion of the Faculty; Report as to the labor essential to the order and preservation of the buildings & grounds, the Committee deem it unnecessary to take in consideration these questions, and are not in possession of any facts that render it advisable for them to supplement the action of the Finance Committee.

The attention of the Committee has been directed to some shanties just over road from "the Infirmary" and adjacent to a settlement known as "Canada", and as they are not necessary and are conspicuously detractive from the completeness of the lawn to which they are attached it is deemed best that they should be removed and it is therefore proposed that the Proctor be required to take them away and as soom as possible put the ground in grass.

Your Committee have inquired into the claims of the applicants for the Pavilion formerly occupied by Dr. Maupin and after careful consideration have become convinced that the large family of Dr. Davis requires increased accommodations, and therefore recommend his application to the favor of the Board. We further advise that the present residence of Dr. Davis be put at the refusal of Prof. Venable and that Prof. Boeck be assigned the house now occupied by Prof. Venable in the event that the latter shall take that of Dr. Davis. If Prof. Venable should prefer to remain where he is we recommend that Prof. Boeck be allowed the house now in occupancy of Dr. Davis.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon inspection they found the Library in good condition there are many suggestions that might be made with a view to its improvements- such as the procurement of glass doors for many of the cases for the protection of the books, and others, but the financial embarrassment of the University is such as to render the requisite appropriations therefore inexpedient at this time.

The Committee would recommend that the Librarian be required to indicate by label on each book donated to the University the name of the donor thereof.

The Committee would further recommend that the Board acknowledge by appropriate resolutions of thanks the reception of the donations made to the Library during the past years, as reported by the Librarian.

The Committee would also suggest that the investments made for the benefit of the Library as well as the Exchange of books made as set forth, in the report of the Librarian to this meeting of the Board be approved.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Annual Report of Mason Gordon, Esq. as Commr of Accounts was laid before the Board.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted their Report which on being read and considered was on motion adopted.

Report of the Committee

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they proceeded in discharge of the duties imposed upon them to inspect both the Laboratory and the Philosophical Apparatus they were fortunate enough to find both Dr. Mallet and Professor Smith in their respective Departments who not only gave them every facility for the desired inspection but took occasion most kindly to make the visit of the Committee both pleasant & instructive by the completeness & fullness of their exhibition of the objects of greatest interest in each of the branches.

The Committee are gratified to report that in both cases they found the Apparatus and all matters connected with both Departments in thorough order and most systematically arranged-Prof. Smith has within the past year or two enriched his collection (especially in the branch of acoustics) with many valuable instruments and Dr. Mallet has added to his collection many interesting specimens of the progressive process in the manufacture of Pottery and Leather.

The Committee were unable to give as full an inspection of these Departments as they desired, but they saw enough to assure them that both Departments are in the highest state of efficiency, and that no appropriations of any moment will be required by either Professor. It is obvious however that in the Department of Pure Chemistry an appropriation may be needed to put it on the same footing with the Departments visited today, and in conclusion they would suggest that the appropriation of $350 as recommended by the Faculty be favorably considered when the General appropriation bill shall come up.

All of which is respectfully submitted

The Board met pursuant to adjournement last night.

Present the same members of the Board as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Berkeley, who was called to Richmond on public business.

1\. Resolved That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia receive with lively sensibility the announcement of the zeal and unanimity with which the society of Alumni have entered upon the consideration of a plan for aiding the University in the improvement of its finances & the enlargement of its theatre of usefulness.

2\. They would further express their hearty approbation of the plan for reading these results as sketched by Mr. Blakey in his conference with this Board yesterday.

3\. They reiterate their earnest wish & purpose in every possible way to encourage & cooperate with the Society of Alumni in the prosecution of this laudable enterprise, and will be ready at any and all times to consider and act upon any suggestions touching this matter which may come to them.

4\. Resolved That the Committee appointed yesterday be charged with the duty of delivering these Resolutions to the Society of Alumni and it is further instructed to confer with the Committee of that Society whenever it shall be desired.

Ordered That the Rector execute the agreement dated June 27th 1872 with the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund which is as follows:

Whereas the following order was made at a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held the 7th day of September 1870, viz: Whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund have agreed to make an appropriation for building a house for Professor Mallet on University ground upon special condition that, in case of separation of said Trust Fund from the University, the prime cost of said house shall be refunded, the Rector is hereby authorized & instructed to enter into such written legal agreement, as shall bind their Board or their successors to fulfil said condition, if said separation should occur: "& whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund did, in pursuance of their agreement, appropriate the sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars for building a house for Professor Mallet, which has been erected on University ground: Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby agree, & bind themselves to refund the said sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund whenever a separation of said Fund from the University of Virginia shall take place- In testimony whereof, I, Robert G. H. Kean, Rector of the University of Virginia, have hereunto signed my name, and affixed the seal of the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia this 27th day of June 1872.

To the Experimental farm

$1000.00

To the Miller Scholarships

1000.00

To the Professorship of Agricultural Chemistry- salary

500.00

To Professorship of Agriculture- salary

2000.00

To Professorship of Applied Mathematics &c

500.00

For Repairs of Farm House not exceeding

50.00

For purchase of Books & Drawings for school Applied Math. &c not exceeding

150.00

For building stable & tool House & purchase of mules ($200 of which will be paid out of the interest to accrue July 1st 1873)

600.00

\* \*see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\] For salaries of 15 Professors

15,400

For salaries of adjunct profs. \* of Analytical Chy.

500

\* For salaries of assistants in Mathematics, Demonstrator of Anatomy- assistant in Applied Mathematics & Draftsman

1,600.00

For salaries of Officers (Left blank to be acted on at the meeting in September next)

For advertising in newspapers

$600.00

For printing Catalogue (subject to be reduced by advertisements inserted as ordered

400.00

For printing blanks &c

140.00

1,400.00

For interest on debt

6,350.00

For repairs and improvements

2,000.00

For Labor

1,200.00

For Library

200.00

For contingent expenses

1,250.00

For ice

200.00

For fuel (original purchase)

6,000.00

And such additional amount, if any as may prove to be indispensably necessary.

For gas in public rooms, Laboratory &c

500.00

For diplomas

300.00

For school of Surgery

100.00

For school of Anatomy

100.00

For school of Chemistry

350.00

For school of Natural Philosophy

100.00

For school of Medicine (Prof. Harrison)

150.00

For insurance on buildings

610.00

To pay the debts of the University, viz:

Matured Bond debt- Martha Randolph Bonds due 1867

3500.00

Estate of L. M. Coleman

1000.00

Prof. C. S. Venable

1250.00

Bonds for purchase of Carr's Hill

2000.00

7,750.00

To pay deficiency of last Fiscal year

3,206.05

Of the Infirmary Fund as follows

To matron

400.00

To servant

135.00

To Salary 3 physicians $500 each

1500.00

To fuel

85.00

To gas

25.00

To ice

15.00

Repairs & contingencies

40.00

2,200.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Baker absent on account of indisposition.

Whereas the Board of Visitors is called upon to provide for instruction in three distinct departments of Chemical Science, viz: Pure, Applied, & Analytical Chemistry—and as from the necessity of the case heretofore Pure Chemistry has been assigned to one chair, and consequently the other two subjects have been relegated to a second & distinct professorship- and whereas with the lights now before them such a distribution of these subjects seems to the Board to be most unequal. It is therefore ordered that for the present (it being regarded as strictly a temporary arrangement, to be made permanent or abolished as experience may dictate) that Pure & Applied Chemistry shall be united under one professorship and the department of Analytical Chemistry be assigned to another Chair whose occupant shall be entitled Adjunct Professor- subject to the control and under the constant supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry-the duties of said Adjunct Professor shall be prescribed by the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry except that it is hereby ordered that the said adjunct Professor shall be required to deliver a series of Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry.

Prof. J. W. Mallet is hereby appointed to the Chair of Pure & Applied Chemistry, subject in all that related to salary & income to the rules & regulations which govern the Faculty at large.

Frank P. Dunnington is hereby appointed to the Chair of Analytical Chemistry with the title of Adjunct Professor, and subject (as recited above) to the discretion and supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry- the said Adjunct Professor shall receive for his services the sum of $500 and the fees in his school to the extent of $300—if they produce so much—any excess over that sum to be paid into the general treasury of the University.

Absent Messrs Walton & Campbell—left for home.

Ordered That the following appropriations are made for the ensuing fiscal year for the purposes named- to wit:

Of the funds appropriated by the Trustees of the Miller Fund

Of the funds of the University (General) as follows:

see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\]

Ordered That the Executive Committee of the Board, be charged with the duty of making such arrangments as may be necessary for temporarily providing for the present deficiency shown by the Proctor's Report, and for the payment of the Bond for Carr's Hill which matures in July next, and for meeting such other expenditures as may be necessary to be provided for before the next meeting of the Board.

Ordered That it is not intended by the foregoing appropriation that the salary of Prof. Mallet shall in any event exceed three thousand dollars ($3000) inclusive of the sum of $500 appropriated by the "Miller Trustees" to the "Prof. of Agricultural Chemistry".

The Board adjourned to meet on the 19th of September next.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on the 23d Ult:

Present- B. Johnson Barbour, Rector pro temp, R. G. H. Kean, E. B. Montague, Joseph T. Campbell, Moses Walton, Thomas Smith, W. R. Berkeley and Micajah Woods.

The Board was called to order by Mr. Barbour, Rector pro temp.

The Board proceeded by ballot to elect a Rector, with the following result: Mr. R. G. H. Kean four votes, Mr. B. J. Barbour two votes and Mr. Joseph T. Campbell one vote- Mr. Barbour not voting- Mr. Kean having received a majority of the votes cast he was declared elected and on motion his election was made unanimous.

Mr. Kean in a short address returned thanks for the honor and assumed the Chair.

Messrs R. G. H. Kean, B. Johnson Barbour and Micajah Woods elected as the Executive Committee.

The following Committees were appointed by the Rector:

Finance- Messrs Walton & Campbell

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley.

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Barbour

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

On motion resolved, that the Rector be added to the Finance Committee.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communications

1\. From the Chairman of the Faculty transmitting.

2\. Report of the Faculty made in pursuance of a resolution of of the Board adopted at the meeting in May last

3\. Report of the Proctor made in pursuance of a resolution adopted at the same time.

4\. Report of Prof. Mallet as to the Experimantal Farm.

Resolved, that the applications of Profs Venable, Davis, Southall and Boeck for the Pavilion vacated by the death \[of\] Dr. Maupin be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings for its consideration and report to the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on Monday next at 9 A.M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, all the members of the Board, including Mr. Baker.

The Board was called to order by the Rector.

A communication was received from Prof. Venable asking the permission of the Board "to decline to be reelected Chairman (of the Faculty) for the next session".

A communication was received from Prof. Holmes asking to be relieved from the duties of the school of Political Economy.

A communication having been received from Prof. G. F. Holmes asking to be relieved from the conduct of the School of Political Economy, said communication was duly considered and it was resolved as the opinion of the Board of Visitors that in view of all the circumstances it is desirable that Prof. Holmes shall continue to discharge the duties of said school-and the secretary be instructed to send a copy of this Resolution to Prof. Holmes.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 A. M.

Your Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg leave to report that they have made such an inspection as seemed to them necessary to the discharge of the duties, and regret to say that they have found much delapidation in the buildings and great disfigurement in the grounds. The buildings are out of repair in various particulars, but more especially in the roofing of the terrace, and the "Dawson Row". The grounds are checkered with paths that are unsightly & entirely unnecessary. Your Committee are aware that the repairs desirable would require an expenditure beyond the revenue of the Institution at present but they recommend that provision be made for putting in order the roofs referred to, as the damage already serious is becoming worse every day and further delay in the matter will involve heavier cost. They are also apprised of the difficulty of preventing the short cuts across the ground but they nevertheless are of the opinion that the evil can be corrected by active attention and they therefore recommend that the Proctor be required to put in operation every expedient practicable to this end.

Greater industry should be exhibited in breaking them up than there is in making them.

The Committee on Finance having already recommended the adoption of the Proctor's Estimate for repairs, and having approved the suggestion of the Faculty; Report as to the labor essential to the order and preservation of the buildings & grounds, the Committee deem it unnecessary to take in consideration these questions, and are not in possession of any facts that render it advisable for them to supplement the action of the Finance Committee.

The attention of the Committee has been directed to some shanties just over road from "the Infirmary" and adjacent to a settlement known as "Canada", and as they are not necessary and are conspicuously detractive from the completeness of the lawn to which they are attached it is deemed best that they should be removed and it is therefore proposed that the Proctor be required to take them away and as soom as possible put the ground in grass.

Your Committee have inquired into the claims of the applicants for the Pavilion formerly occupied by Dr. Maupin and after careful consideration have become convinced that the large family of Dr. Davis requires increased accommodations, and therefore recommend his application to the favor of the Board. We further advise that the present residence of Dr. Davis be put at the refusal of Prof. Venable and that Prof. Boeck be assigned the house now occupied by Prof. Venable in the event that the latter shall take that of Dr. Davis. If Prof. Venable should prefer to remain where he is we recommend that Prof. Boeck be allowed the house now in occupancy of Dr. Davis.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report that upon inspection they found the Library in good condition there are many suggestions that might be made with a view to its improvements- such as the procurement of glass doors for many of the cases for the protection of the books, and others, but the financial embarrassment of the University is such as to render the requisite appropriations therefore inexpedient at this time.

The Committee would recommend that the Librarian be required to indicate by label on each book donated to the University the name of the donor thereof.

The Committee would further recommend that the Board acknowledge by appropriate resolutions of thanks the reception of the donations made to the Library during the past years, as reported by the Librarian.

The Committee would also suggest that the investments made for the benefit of the Library as well as the Exchange of books made as set forth, in the report of the Librarian to this meeting of the Board be approved.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Annual Report of Mason Gordon, Esq. as Commr of Accounts was laid before the Board.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted their Report which on being read and considered was on motion adopted.

Report of the Committee

The Committee on Apparatus beg leave to report that they proceeded in discharge of the duties imposed upon them to inspect both the Laboratory and the Philosophical Apparatus they were fortunate enough to find both Dr. Mallet and Professor Smith in their respective Departments who not only gave them every facility for the desired inspection but took occasion most kindly to make the visit of the Committee both pleasant & instructive by the completeness & fullness of their exhibition of the objects of greatest interest in each of the branches.

The Committee are gratified to report that in both cases they found the Apparatus and all matters connected with both Departments in thorough order and most systematically arranged-Prof. Smith has within the past year or two enriched his collection (especially in the branch of acoustics) with many valuable instruments and Dr. Mallet has added to his collection many interesting specimens of the progressive process in the manufacture of Pottery and Leather.

The Committee were unable to give as full an inspection of these Departments as they desired, but they saw enough to assure them that both Departments are in the highest state of efficiency, and that no appropriations of any moment will be required by either Professor. It is obvious however that in the Department of Pure Chemistry an appropriation may be needed to put it on the same footing with the Departments visited today, and in conclusion they would suggest that the appropriation of $350 as recommended by the Faculty be favorably considered when the General appropriation bill shall come up.

All of which is respectfully submitted

The Board met pursuant to adjournement last night.

Present the same members of the Board as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Berkeley, who was called to Richmond on public business.

1\. Resolved That the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia receive with lively sensibility the announcement of the zeal and unanimity with which the society of Alumni have entered upon the consideration of a plan for aiding the University in the improvement of its finances & the enlargement of its theatre of usefulness.

2\. They would further express their hearty approbation of the plan for reading these results as sketched by Mr. Blakey in his conference with this Board yesterday.

3\. They reiterate their earnest wish & purpose in every possible way to encourage & cooperate with the Society of Alumni in the prosecution of this laudable enterprise, and will be ready at any and all times to consider and act upon any suggestions touching this matter which may come to them.

4\. Resolved That the Committee appointed yesterday be charged with the duty of delivering these Resolutions to the Society of Alumni and it is further instructed to confer with the Committee of that Society whenever it shall be desired.

Ordered That the Rector execute the agreement dated June 27th 1872 with the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund which is as follows:

Whereas the following order was made at a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held the 7th day of September 1870, viz: Whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund have agreed to make an appropriation for building a house for Professor Mallet on University ground upon special condition that, in case of separation of said Trust Fund from the University, the prime cost of said house shall be refunded, the Rector is hereby authorized & instructed to enter into such written legal agreement, as shall bind their Board or their successors to fulfil said condition, if said separation should occur: "& whereas the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund did, in pursuance of their agreement, appropriate the sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars for building a house for Professor Mallet, which has been erected on University ground: Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby agree, & bind themselves to refund the said sum of seven thousand two hundred dollars to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund whenever a separation of said Fund from the University of Virginia shall take place- In testimony whereof, I, Robert G. H. Kean, Rector of the University of Virginia, have hereunto signed my name, and affixed the seal of the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia this 27th day of June 1872.

To the Experimental farm

$1000.00

To the Miller Scholarships

1000.00

To the Professorship of Agricultural Chemistry- salary

500.00

To Professorship of Agriculture- salary

2000.00

To Professorship of Applied Mathematics &c

500.00

For Repairs of Farm House not exceeding

50.00

For purchase of Books & Drawings for school Applied Math. &c not exceeding

150.00

For building stable & tool House & purchase of mules ($200 of which will be paid out of the interest to accrue July 1st 1873)

600.00

\* \*see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\] For salaries of 15 Professors

15,400

For salaries of adjunct profs. \* of Analytical Chy.

500

\* For salaries of assistants in Mathematics, Demonstrator of Anatomy- assistant in Applied Mathematics & Draftsman

1,600.00

For salaries of Officers (Left blank to be acted on at the meeting in September next)

For advertising in newspapers

$600.00

For printing Catalogue (subject to be reduced by advertisements inserted as ordered

400.00

For printing blanks &c

140.00

1,400.00

For interest on debt

6,350.00

For repairs and improvements

2,000.00

For Labor

1,200.00

For Library

200.00

For contingent expenses

1,250.00

For ice

200.00

For fuel (original purchase)

6,000.00

And such additional amount, if any as may prove to be indispensably necessary.

For gas in public rooms, Laboratory &c

500.00

For diplomas

300.00

For school of Surgery

100.00

For school of Anatomy

100.00

For school of Chemistry

350.00

For school of Natural Philosophy

100.00

For school of Medicine (Prof. Harrison)

150.00

For insurance on buildings

610.00

To pay the debts of the University, viz:

Matured Bond debt- Martha Randolph Bonds due 1867

3500.00

Estate of L. M. Coleman

1000.00

Prof. C. S. Venable

1250.00

Bonds for purchase of Carr's Hill

2000.00

7,750.00

To pay deficiency of last Fiscal year

3,206.05

Of the Infirmary Fund as follows

To matron

400.00

To servant

135.00

To Salary 3 physicians $500 each

1500.00

To fuel

85.00

To gas

25.00

To ice

15.00

Repairs & contingencies

40.00

2,200.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Baker absent on account of indisposition.

Whereas the Board of Visitors is called upon to provide for instruction in three distinct departments of Chemical Science, viz: Pure, Applied, & Analytical Chemistry—and as from the necessity of the case heretofore Pure Chemistry has been assigned to one chair, and consequently the other two subjects have been relegated to a second & distinct professorship- and whereas with the lights now before them such a distribution of these subjects seems to the Board to be most unequal. It is therefore ordered that for the present (it being regarded as strictly a temporary arrangement, to be made permanent or abolished as experience may dictate) that Pure & Applied Chemistry shall be united under one professorship and the department of Analytical Chemistry be assigned to another Chair whose occupant shall be entitled Adjunct Professor- subject to the control and under the constant supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry-the duties of said Adjunct Professor shall be prescribed by the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry except that it is hereby ordered that the said adjunct Professor shall be required to deliver a series of Lectures on Agricultural Chemistry.

Prof. J. W. Mallet is hereby appointed to the Chair of Pure & Applied Chemistry, subject in all that related to salary & income to the rules & regulations which govern the Faculty at large.

Frank P. Dunnington is hereby appointed to the Chair of Analytical Chemistry with the title of Adjunct Professor, and subject (as recited above) to the discretion and supervision of the Professor of Pure & Applied Chemistry- the said Adjunct Professor shall receive for his services the sum of $500 and the fees in his school to the extent of $300—if they produce so much—any excess over that sum to be paid into the general treasury of the University.

Absent Messrs Walton & Campbell—left for home.

Ordered That the following appropriations are made for the ensuing fiscal year for the purposes named- to wit:

Of the funds appropriated by the Trustees of the Miller Fund

Of the funds of the University (General) as follows:

see part in proceedings at the meeting in Sept. 1872 when these are modified, p. 360 \[original, p. 316 typed\]

Ordered That the Executive Committee of the Board, be charged with the duty of making such arrangments as may be necessary for temporarily providing for the present deficiency shown by the Proctor's Report, and for the payment of the Bond for Carr's Hill which matures in July next, and for meeting such other expenditures as may be necessary to be provided for before the next meeting of the Board.

Ordered That it is not intended by the foregoing appropriation that the salary of Prof. Mallet shall in any event exceed three thousand dollars ($3000) inclusive of the sum of $500 appropriated by the "Miller Trustees" to the "Prof. of Agricultural Chemistry".

The Board adjourned to meet on the 19th of September next.
