---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1874'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
To salary of Prof. Page

$2000.00

To rent for Prof. Page

300.00

To salary of Prof. Mallet

500.00

To salary of Prof. Boeck

300.00

To Farm

1000.00

To two scholarships

1000.00

To Prof. Page for equipment of school

100.00

To the School of Natural History and Agriculture for fitting up lecture room & museum & for cutting off engine room by a partition

50.00

To the School of Chemistry

150.00

To the School of N. Philosophy

150.00

To the School of Medicine for the purchase of instruments

50.00

To School of Engineering for repairs to instruments

30.00

To the Library

200.00

Salaries of 14 Professors

10,400.00

Commutation of rent to 2 Professors

600.00

Salary of Assistant Professor

500.00

Salary to officers

3,600.00

Salary to Adjunct Professor (A&Achy)

800.00

Advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Interest on Debt

6,500.00

Catalogue

400.00

Repairs & Improvements

2,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Library

200.00

Contingent Expenses

1,250.00

Ice

200.00

Fuel

6,000.00

School of Nat. Philosophy

150.00

School of Chemistry

150.00

For repairs to lithographic press

50.00

School of Medicine for purchase of instruments

50.00

School of Engineering for repair of instruments

30.00

Insurance

600.00

Gas

500.00

Diplomas

300.00

Infirmary

Matron

480

Servant

135

Physicians

1500

Fuel

145

Gas

25

Ice

15

Repairs

40

Contingents

60

2,400.00

Pepairs of Pavilion occupied by Prof. Peters

40.00

Draining & flooring basement of Pavilion of Prof. Minor

125.00

Draining & flooring basement of Infirmary

150.00

$38,935.00

At an annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on the 29th day of June 1874 the following members of the Board were present, viz

R.G. H. Kean, Rector & Messrs Carrington, Campbell, Montague Smith, & Berkeley.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Rector appointed the following Committees for the ensuing year.

Finance- Messrs Campbell & Carrington

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Baker

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

The following reports were presented to the Board:

Faculty report.

2\. Proctor & Superintendent's reports.

3\. Prof. Mallet's reports to the Rector & Board of Visitors and to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

4\. Prof. Page's report to the Miller Trustees.

5\. Prof. Boeck's report to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

6\. Report of the Commr of Accounts, Mason Gordon Esqr

7\. Report of the Chairman of the Faculty accompanying the forgoing reports

8\. Report of the Librarian.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 1/2 o'clock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Woods.

The Committees appointed on yesterday not being ready to report upon the subjects referred to them and there being no other matters for the consideration of the Board at this time the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 91/2 o'clock.

University of Va.

July 1st 1874

The Board met at 9 1/2 o'clock. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The report of the Executive Committee was received, approved and ordered to be filed.

The report of the Library committee was received and approved.

Resolved, That the Librarian be authorized under the direction of the Chairman of the Faculty to appropriate out of the 83 collected by him for fines the sum of 50 for new book cases, and he shall appropriate the residue for binding such books as are in need thereof

A communication was received from B. Johnson Barbour Esqr. which on being read and considered.

Resolved, That B. Johnson Barbour Esqr be and he is hereby requested to proceed with the preparation and publication of the proceedings attending the inauguration of the Jefferson statue, including his own introductory address: as indicated in the letter of Hugh Blair Grigsby, Esq. to him submitted with his letter to the Board of the 27th of June 1874 for the reasons suggested in the letter of Mr. Grigsby.

Resolved, That the professor of Agriculture in addition to the subjects heretofore prescribed, give instruction in the theory and principles of farm drainage and irrigation.

Ordered, That in order to give greater definiteness to the connection of the Chair of Applied Mathematics with the agi- cultural Department, the Professor of Applied Mathematics shall give to the students of the school of Agriculture, a course of instruction in drawing and by lectures once a week for not less than four months in each session on (1) the principles and best methods of constructing Agricultural Buildings- (2) the Theory & principle of construction of Agricultural machines and implements.

Resolved, That the Rector be authorized to take such steps as he may deem proper to ascertain the present condition of the devise made to the University by            Johnson and that he be requested to report the result of the investigation to the next meeting of the Board- and if he shall deem it necessary he is hereby authorized to employ counsel to protect the interests of the University.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee of he Board be requested to confer with the Officers of the Chesapeake and Ohio R. Road Company with a view to securing the stopping of the mail trains at the University.

Ordered, That as recommended by the report of the Faculty and approved by the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund, that the Faculty be and they are hereby authorized to withdraw the the benefits of the Miller Scholarship from the scholar whenever in their opinion the incumbent is not making a proper use of its benefits. Such withdrawal to take effect from the end of the quarter in which it is ordered- And the payments to the scholar shall be made quarterly in advance the unpaid portion in case of such withdrawal of the annual appropriation shall remain to the credit of the Miller Fund.

Resolved, That the candidates for the Miller Scholarship hereafter until further orders, be advised and informed by the Chairman of the Faculty that the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund for the reasons assigned by them, reserve the right to suspend appropriations to the scholarships from and after the session ending June 1875

The following communication received from the Miller Board was considered and ordered to be recorded.

At a meeting of the Trustees of the Miller Fund held at the University of Virginia on the 30th day of June and 1st of July 1874 the following proceedings were had: On consideration of the communication of the Rector covering an extract from the Report of the Faculty asking that authority be given them to withdraw the Miller Scholarship from the scholar, whenever in their opinion he is not making proper use of its benefits; it is resolved that in the opinion of this Board it is expedient that the authority asked for by the Faculty be given them.

It is respectfully suggested to the Board of Visitors that the payments to the scholar be made quarterly in advance so that in the event of the withdrawal of the Scholarship the unpaid portion of the annual appropriation shall remain to the credit of the Miller Fund.

In the opinion of the Trustees of the Miller Board it is a matter of prime necessity that the school of Agriculture should be fully equipped with proper machinery, anatomical specimens and buildings, and that all of the funds which can be safely withdrawn from other purposes should be applied to the development of the school of Experimental and Practical Agriculture in that direction; Therefore it is resolved that this Board reserves the right at its next annual meeting to suspend any appropriation to the Miller Scholarship, from and after the session ending June 1875 and they respectfully request the Board of Visitors to cause the candidates for said Scholarships to be informed of this resolution.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the next fiscal year:

And that the balance of any funds collected during the year, shall be applied, First to the payment of the balance of $596.41 due the University, and the residue, if any, shall be applied under the direction of Prof. Page to the equipment of his school.

A copy, Teste

Resolved, That the following named students who appear by communications from the chairman of the Faculty to have been prevented by sickness from standing the examinations for graduation be and are authorized to have said examinations at such time during the next session as the Faculty shall prescribe, to wit-

William Van Llooten in the schools of Natural Philosophy & Geology, Thomas N. Page in the school of Law, John B. Preston in the school of Mathematics, J. M. Quarles in the school of Law, Sidney Francis Lewis for the degree of Civil and Mining Engineer and W. W. Larkin in the school of Law.

Prof. James F. Harrison was unanimously reelected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

Prof. Noah K. Davis was unanimously confirmed by the Board as Prof. of Moral Philosophy.

The Committee of Finance submitted their report as follows

The Committee of finance appointed by the Rector on the 29th of June 1874 submit the following report:

I. We have considered the suggestions, made in the report of the Faculty, which refer to appropriations and recommend as follows in respect thereto: We recommend the appropriation of fifty dollars ($50) to be expended in repairs to Lithographic press belonging to the University, provided the faculty shall determine that its use during the next session is expedient.

We also recommend the following appropriations which are suggested in said report, viz

We are not prepared to Act on the recommendation of the Faculty that the next Catalogue include the names of all students who have matriculated since the foundation of the University- We are not informed whether the material is attainable for this object. We suggest that this subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority to make an appropriation therefor not exceeding the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250).

We do not recommend the publication with the Catalogue of selections from the examinations of the students.

The Committee concur fully with the Faculty as to the expediency and propriety of promoting the celebration of the semi-centennial of the University. We have fully considered the suggestions of the Faculty on this subject, but we think it inexpedient that the Board of Visitors make any appropriation for this object. We think that the Board should provide only for the usual order of exercises and that the arrangements for this celebration may with propriety be left to the action of the Society of Alumni. We therefore recommend that the Executive Committee be authorized to confer with any Committee appointed by the Alumni, to make arrangements for the celebration and that said Ex. Committee have authority to grant such proper use of the grounds & buildings as may be necessary.

2\. The Commitree approve the suggestions made by the proctor as to advances made to Boarding House-Keepers and recommend that hereafter no advance be made for a period exceeding one month and then only on such security as is now required.

3\. The Committee recommend that the stated salaries of the Professors as fixed by resolutions of the Board on the 27th day of June 1873, be continued until otherwise ordered. They also recommend that the regulations in relation to the fees of their tuition to be paid to professors & in relation to emoluments, as fixed by the resolutions aforesaid of the 27th of June 1873 numbered from 1 to 5 inclusive be continued in force.

4\. The Committee have considered the question in relation to the salary of Professor Minor, which is set forth in his letter to the Rector dated     day of     1874 and herewith returned.

We have examined the records of the Board from the earliest date to the present time and find that there is some confusion. as to the date at which the salaries of Professors are due, and also as to the periods of time of service for which the salaries are paid. This confusion seems to result from looseness of expression in some of the resolves of the Board- which seem to give countenance to almost any construction which may be contended for. There are however certain fixed points from which a decided conclusion seems deducible.

The services of a professor are due to the University for and during the session of 9 months and for no other period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period, and for no other. The word year is used, but may mean scholastic year and not calendar year. By one resolution of the Board, the salary is to commence from the date of acceptance of the office. Still it will scarcely be contended, that if a professor is elected 1st of July and accepts, and dies or declines the office on the 1st of October that he would be entitled to 3 months pay for these three vacation months.

We find that the stated salaries have been paid in equal instalments, on the 1st October & 1st of April of each year. If a professor be selected on July 1st or in August or in September he would receive his semiannual salary at the commencement of the next session viz 1 Oct. and a similar amount on the 1st of April following. No difference has ever been made because of differences in date of election. From this it seems fairly deducible that the salary was considered as commencing from the beginning of the session, and that one half of it was then paid in advance. The other half being paid on April 1 following. The whole salary for the scholastic year was paid during the session. This seems to have been the view taken by this Board in the Resolutions passed June 27th 1874. The salaries were fixed "for the ensuing year" Again, in the resolution directing payment of the salary of the late Dr. McGuffey after reciting that his duties had been satisfactorily performed by Dr. Withersppon, under arrangement made with the family of Dr. McGuffey payment is directed to be made of the stated salary "for the session of 1872-3" in full. We therefore think that, by the payment made to the several professors of one half of their salaries on 1st October 1872 and one half on 1 April 1873, they had received their stated salaries in full for that scholastic year, which terminated on 1 July 1873. We further are of opinion that no salaries thereafter accrued or commenced running until the 1st of October 1873.

5\. We recommend that the Rector correspond with Col. Charles Marshall, of Baltimore, in reference to the legacy left the University of Va. by Wm. H. Reed, and take such steps, in regard thereto as may be necessary to protect the interests of the University.

The Committee will be unable to report what appropriations should be made for the next year until the reports of other Committees have been made and acted on by the Board.

The Board then proceeded to consider the forgoing report of the Finance Committee, by sections, and adopted and approved the same. Thereupon it was

Resolved, that all the recommendations of said report are accepted by the Board, and it is ordered that the same be executed as though the same were ordered by a separate resolution as to each.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the ensuing year:

2\. That the furds received from the Miller Fund be and the same are hereby appropriated according to the provisions of the communication from that Board heretofore entered.

Resolved, That an arrangement similar to that made by the Executive Committee on the 4th of July last for accommodations at Bank during the ensuing vacation, is hereby authorized to be made.

The undersigned respectfully reports that he has personally examined the Library and he has found everything connected therewith in excellent condition and it gives him pleasure to hear testimony to the evidences of faithful discharge of duty on the part of the Librarian.

The recommendation of the Librarian in his Report that Public Palls shall be hereafter prohibited in the Library, has received careful consideration and after investigation, the undersigned while recognizing and appreciating the conscientious motives of the Librarian in making his suggestions on this point, has arrived at a totally different conclusion. The main objection urged that the Insurance on the Building will be greatly increased if the Annual Ball is held in the Library Hall seems not to be founded on the facts of the case. The Proctor and Superintendent informs the undersigned that the Insurance Companies have raised no objection on this point and are not likely to do so. The danger arising from the use of candles has been obviated by the laying of gas pipes around the galleries and the jets are so arranged that the lignts will project from the galleries and be entirely out of reach of parties on the main floor. In fact in the opinion of the undersigned the danger of fire in the Library on such occasions is as small as in any Hall of a similar character in the Country

As far as the visiting public and the young men are concerned the Annual Ball is one of the chief items of attraction of the session- and it is peculiarly proper that the handsomest Hall at our command should be used for the occasion. Therefore the undersigned recommends that this whole question should be left to the discretion of the Chairman and Faculty as has been the case heretofore.

The undersigned would advise the appropriation of at least $50 for the structure of new cases for the books and for the purchase of new books for the present cases. In the event that financial status of the University is such as not to justify this appropriation out of the general fund the undersigned would suggest that as much as $50 be appropriated for the purpose above indicated, out of the $83, collected for fines.

Your Committee respectfully report that they have inspected the grounds & public buildings and are gratified to state they are in improved condition generally. The grounds are no longer disfigured by paths but present the appearance of a well kept lawn. And the buildings are in a fair state of preservation. The committee with pleasure say that everything practicable seems to have been done to make the best show in and about the University.

The University Farm has improved in appearance, and the crops indicate that the tillage has been industrious, and in view of the unusual thinness of the land, encouragingly successful.

The Committee have had their attention directed to the decayed condition of the porch to the rear of Col. Peters Pavilion and the dampness of Prof. Minor's basement. And they recommend the appropriation of $40.00 for the repair of the former and $125 for the drainage and reflooring of the latter.

The Committee being satisfied that Prof. Minor absolutely needs increased accommodation for his family, recommend that the dormitory next to the room now used by him as his office be assigned to him until the necessary addition can be made to his residence.

The Committee find the floor of the basement of the Infirmary rotten and in need of repair and they deem it advisable to have it replaced, and provisions made to make the basement less damp and ore comfortable, they therefore recommand the appropriation of $150 towards said improvement.

The Committee in response to application of Prof. Minor to the Board of Visitors, recommend he be allowed one dormitory for students who may board with him, provided that the said dormitory shall not be on the lawn, and shall be selected so as not to interfore with the assignment to the Hotel Keepers if practicable.

Upon the several applications of Prof. Smith, Boeck and Dunnington the Committee recommend that no action shall be taken at present.

The Committee recommend that dormitory No. 6 reserved for the Board of Visitors on the lawn, in which the records of the Board are now kept, be no longer used for such purpose, and that the records be removed to the Library for safe keeping and the said dormitory be turned over to the Proctor for the use of students.

The foregoing report of the Committee on grounds and buildings was received and after consideration by the Board the same was adopted.

Whereas it is expedient to provide a fund for the redemption of the outstanding debt of the University of Va. it is therefore

Resolved. 1. That Bonds of the University of Va. be issued, which shall not exceed in the aggregate the sum of $65,000 shall-be in sums of $500 each, shall bear interest at the rate of 6% payable semi-annually on coupons attached to said bonds, the principal whereof shall be payable 30 years from the 1st day of October 1874, and which said bonds shall be signed by the Rector on behalf of the University of Va. and countersigned by the Secretary of the Board and by the Proctor and shall have the seal of the University annexed- And which said coupons shall be signed by the Proctor and payable on the 1st of October and the 1st of April of each year.

2\. Said bonds shall be deposited with the Proctor for issue, and shall in no case be issued at less than par. The Proctor shall keep a separate account of all sums realized from the sale of said bonds, shall keep said funds separate from all other funds of the University, and shall devote said funds exclusively to the redemption of the existing debt of the University.

3\. The Board of Visitors hereby pledge the faith of the Institution that the proceeds of said bonds shall be strictly devoted to redemption of the present outstanding debt of the University, & to no other purpose whatever.

4\. The Executive Committee is hereby authorized to contract with an agent or agents for the sale of said bonds on such terms of compensation as in their discretion and best judgments will be reasonable.

5\. No bonds shall be prepared for issue until subscriptions be obtained to the amount of at least $20,000.00.

6\. If it be found that said bonds cannot be negotiated n the terms aforesaid without further security for their payment then that a committee of all the members of the Board meet in the city of Richmond at such time as the Rector shall designate and advise them of, to consider whether it will be necessary to make application to the General Assembly for legislation in order to pledge the property and resources of the University to secure the loan aforesaid- And if such committee shall deem it necessary that such authority be obtained, to make application for legislation accordingly.

7\. Such committee if three or more members shall attend shall have authority to act. And the action of such committee shall have the same force and effect as if taken by the Board at the present session.

Resolved, That the Board of Visitors being of the opinion that the Chairman o the Faculty should be vested with authority to act summarily in certain cases it is hereby ordered that he shall be empowered to impose fines for any breach of duty referred to in clause 13 Section 4 Chap.1 and Section 50 of Chap. III of the Enactment relating to the Constitution and Government of the University of Va. printed for the use of the University in 1859 with the right of appeal to the Faculty.

The following report of the Committee on Apparatus was received and adopted.

Your Committee respectfully reports, that they made a full and particular examination so far as they were competent, therefor, of the Laboratory of the University and of the Philosophic Apparatus in charge of Prof. Smith, and that the inventory required by law from Professors Mallet and Smith are herewith returned and adopted as a part of the report of the Committee.

Resolved, that so much of the resolution by which the Report of the Finance Committee was adopted as relates to the question of the half years salary claimed by Prof. Minor to have been due him on the 1st of October 1873, is reconsidered and the further consideration thereof adjourned to the next meeting of the Board- And that the Proctor report to the next meeting of the Board a statement of Professor Minor's account for salary showing the amount he has received for salary from the time he entered on his duties as professor to the 1st of July 1873 and the amount of credits given him on said account and the forms of the entries of debit and credit.

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Visitors are hereby recorded for the various Donations made to the University since the last annual meeting.

Resolved, That this Board desire to express the assurance of their deep sympathy with the family and many friends of the late Henry Howard, M.D. who has departed this life since their last meeting. His faithful and efficient discharge of duty during his long connection with the University is recalled by its Alumni and friends throughout the country; and the Library which he bequeathed to the Institution as an evidence of his devotion to it, shall be carefully preserved as a sacred and valuable memento of the eminent professor.

Resolved, that a copy of this resolution be transmitted by the Secretary of the Board to the family of Dr. Howard.

Resolved, That in as much as Professor Noah K. Davis was elected a professor on the 30th day of June 1873 without limitation of his term, and was not elected for one year only, the Board is of opinion that no confirmation of his election was necessary but that he continues in office under said election of the 30th day of June 1873.

On motion, the Board adjourned sine die.

At an annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on the 29th day of June 1874 the following members of the Board were present, viz

R.G. H. Kean, Rector & Messrs Carrington, Campbell, Montague Smith, & Berkeley.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Rector appointed the following Committees for the ensuing year.

Finance- Messrs Campbell & Carrington

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Baker

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

The following reports were presented to the Board:

Faculty report.

2\. Proctor & Superintendent's reports.

3\. Prof. Mallet's reports to the Rector & Board of Visitors and to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

4\. Prof. Page's report to the Miller Trustees.

5\. Prof. Boeck's report to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

6\. Report of the Commr of Accounts, Mason Gordon Esqr

7\. Report of the Chairman of the Faculty accompanying the forgoing reports

8\. Report of the Librarian.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 1/2 o'clock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Woods.

The Committees appointed on yesterday not being ready to report upon the subjects referred to them and there being no other matters for the consideration of the Board at this time the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 91/2 o'clock.

To salary of Prof. Page

$2000.00

To rent for Prof. Page

300.00

To salary of Prof. Mallet

500.00

To salary of Prof. Boeck

300.00

To Farm

1000.00

To two scholarships

1000.00

To Prof. Page for equipment of school

100.00

At a meeting of the Trustees of the Miller Fund held at the University of Virginia on the 30th day of June and 1st of July 1874 the following proceedings were had: On consideration of the communication of the Rector covering an extract from the Report of the Faculty asking that authority be given them to withdraw the Miller Scholarship from the scholar, whenever in their opinion he is not making proper use of its benefits; it is resolved that in the opinion of this Board it is expedient that the authority asked for by the Faculty be given them.

It is respectfully suggested to the Board of Visitors that the payments to the scholar be made quarterly in advance so that in the event of the withdrawal of the Scholarship the unpaid portion of the annual appropriation shall remain to the credit of the Miller Fund.

In the opinion of the Trustees of the Miller Board it is a matter of prime necessity that the school of Agriculture should be fully equipped with proper machinery, anatomical specimens and buildings, and that all of the funds which can be safely withdrawn from other purposes should be applied to the development of the school of Experimental and Practical Agriculture in that direction; Therefore it is resolved that this Board reserves the right at its next annual meeting to suspend any appropriation to the Miller Scholarship, from and after the session ending June 1875 and they respectfully request the Board of Visitors to cause the candidates for said Scholarships to be informed of this resolution.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the next fiscal year:

And that the balance of any funds collected during the year, shall be applied, First to the payment of the balance of $596.41 due the University, and the residue, if any, shall be applied under the direction of Prof. Page to the equipment of his school.

A copy, Teste

To the School of Natural History and Agriculture for fitting up lecture room & museum & for cutting off engine room by a partition

50.00

To the School of Chemistry

150.00

To the School of N. Philosophy

150.00

To the School of Medicine for the purchase of instruments

50.00

To School of Engineering for repairs to instruments

30.00

To the Library

200.00

The Committee of finance appointed by the Rector on the 29th of June 1874 submit the following report:

I. We have considered the suggestions, made in the report of the Faculty, which refer to appropriations and recommend as follows in respect thereto: We recommend the appropriation of fifty dollars ($50) to be expended in repairs to Lithographic press belonging to the University, provided the faculty shall determine that its use during the next session is expedient.

We also recommend the following appropriations which are suggested in said report, viz

We are not prepared to Act on the recommendation of the Faculty that the next Catalogue include the names of all students who have matriculated since the foundation of the University- We are not informed whether the material is attainable for this object. We suggest that this subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority to make an appropriation therefor not exceeding the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250).

We do not recommend the publication with the Catalogue of selections from the examinations of the students.

The Committee concur fully with the Faculty as to the expediency and propriety of promoting the celebration of the semi-centennial of the University. We have fully considered the suggestions of the Faculty on this subject, but we think it inexpedient that the Board of Visitors make any appropriation for this object. We think that the Board should provide only for the usual order of exercises and that the arrangements for this celebration may with propriety be left to the action of the Society of Alumni. We therefore recommend that the Executive Committee be authorized to confer with any Committee appointed by the Alumni, to make arrangements for the celebration and that said Ex. Committee have authority to grant such proper use of the grounds & buildings as may be necessary.

2\. The Commitree approve the suggestions made by the proctor as to advances made to Boarding House-Keepers and recommend that hereafter no advance be made for a period exceeding one month and then only on such security as is now required.

3\. The Committee recommend that the stated salaries of the Professors as fixed by resolutions of the Board on the 27th day of June 1873, be continued until otherwise ordered. They also recommend that the regulations in relation to the fees of their tuition to be paid to professors & in relation to emoluments, as fixed by the resolutions aforesaid of the 27th of June 1873 numbered from 1 to 5 inclusive be continued in force.

4\. The Committee have considered the question in relation to the salary of Professor Minor, which is set forth in his letter to the Rector dated     day of     1874 and herewith returned.

We have examined the records of the Board from the earliest date to the present time and find that there is some confusion. as to the date at which the salaries of Professors are due, and also as to the periods of time of service for which the salaries are paid. This confusion seems to result from looseness of expression in some of the resolves of the Board- which seem to give countenance to almost any construction which may be contended for. There are however certain fixed points from which a decided conclusion seems deducible.

The services of a professor are due to the University for and during the session of 9 months and for no other period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period, and for no other. The word year is used, but may mean scholastic year and not calendar year. By one resolution of the Board, the salary is to commence from the date of acceptance of the office. Still it will scarcely be contended, that if a professor is elected 1st of July and accepts, and dies or declines the office on the 1st of October that he would be entitled to 3 months pay for these three vacation months.

We find that the stated salaries have been paid in equal instalments, on the 1st October & 1st of April of each year. If a professor be selected on July 1st or in August or in September he would receive his semiannual salary at the commencement of the next session viz 1 Oct. and a similar amount on the 1st of April following. No difference has ever been made because of differences in date of election. From this it seems fairly deducible that the salary was considered as commencing from the beginning of the session, and that one half of it was then paid in advance. The other half being paid on April 1 following. The whole salary for the scholastic year was paid during the session. This seems to have been the view taken by this Board in the Resolutions passed June 27th 1874. The salaries were fixed "for the ensuing year" Again, in the resolution directing payment of the salary of the late Dr. McGuffey after reciting that his duties had been satisfactorily performed by Dr. Withersppon, under arrangement made with the family of Dr. McGuffey payment is directed to be made of the stated salary "for the session of 1872-3" in full. We therefore think that, by the payment made to the several professors of one half of their salaries on 1st October 1872 and one half on 1 April 1873, they had received their stated salaries in full for that scholastic year, which terminated on 1 July 1873. We further are of opinion that no salaries thereafter accrued or commenced running until the 1st of October 1873.

5\. We recommend that the Rector correspond with Col. Charles Marshall, of Baltimore, in reference to the legacy left the University of Va. by Wm. H. Reed, and take such steps, in regard thereto as may be necessary to protect the interests of the University.

The Committee will be unable to report what appropriations should be made for the next year until the reports of other Committees have been made and acted on by the Board.

The undersigned respectfully reports that he has personally examined the Library and he has found everything connected therewith in excellent condition and it gives him pleasure to hear testimony to the evidences of faithful discharge of duty on the part of the Librarian.

The recommendation of the Librarian in his Report that Public Palls shall be hereafter prohibited in the Library, has received careful consideration and after investigation, the undersigned while recognizing and appreciating the conscientious motives of the Librarian in making his suggestions on this point, has arrived at a totally different conclusion. The main objection urged that the Insurance on the Building will be greatly increased if the Annual Ball is held in the Library Hall seems not to be founded on the facts of the case. The Proctor and Superintendent informs the undersigned that the Insurance Companies have raised no objection on this point and are not likely to do so. The danger arising from the use of candles has been obviated by the laying of gas pipes around the galleries and the jets are so arranged that the lignts will project from the galleries and be entirely out of reach of parties on the main floor. In fact in the opinion of the undersigned the danger of fire in the Library on such occasions is as small as in any Hall of a similar character in the Country

As far as the visiting public and the young men are concerned the Annual Ball is one of the chief items of attraction of the session- and it is peculiarly proper that the handsomest Hall at our command should be used for the occasion. Therefore the undersigned recommends that this whole question should be left to the discretion of the Chairman and Faculty as has been the case heretofore.

The undersigned would advise the appropriation of at least $50 for the structure of new cases for the books and for the purchase of new books for the present cases. In the event that financial status of the University is such as not to justify this appropriation out of the general fund the undersigned would suggest that as much as $50 be appropriated for the purpose above indicated, out of the $83, collected for fines.

Your Committee respectfully report that they have inspected the grounds & public buildings and are gratified to state they are in improved condition generally. The grounds are no longer disfigured by paths but present the appearance of a well kept lawn. And the buildings are in a fair state of preservation. The committee with pleasure say that everything practicable seems to have been done to make the best show in and about the University.

The University Farm has improved in appearance, and the crops indicate that the tillage has been industrious, and in view of the unusual thinness of the land, encouragingly successful.

The Committee have had their attention directed to the decayed condition of the porch to the rear of Col. Peters Pavilion and the dampness of Prof. Minor's basement. And they recommend the appropriation of $40.00 for the repair of the former and $125 for the drainage and reflooring of the latter.

The Committee being satisfied that Prof. Minor absolutely needs increased accommodation for his family, recommend that the dormitory next to the room now used by him as his office be assigned to him until the necessary addition can be made to his residence.

The Committee find the floor of the basement of the Infirmary rotten and in need of repair and they deem it advisable to have it replaced, and provisions made to make the basement less damp and ore comfortable, they therefore recommand the appropriation of $150 towards said improvement.

The Committee in response to application of Prof. Minor to the Board of Visitors, recommend he be allowed one dormitory for students who may board with him, provided that the said dormitory shall not be on the lawn, and shall be selected so as not to interfore with the assignment to the Hotel Keepers if practicable.

Upon the several applications of Prof. Smith, Boeck and Dunnington the Committee recommend that no action shall be taken at present.

The Committee recommend that dormitory No. 6 reserved for the Board of Visitors on the lawn, in which the records of the Board are now kept, be no longer used for such purpose, and that the records be removed to the Library for safe keeping and the said dormitory be turned over to the Proctor for the use of students.

Your Committee respectfully reports, that they made a full and particular examination so far as they were competent, therefor, of the Laboratory of the University and of the Philosophic Apparatus in charge of Prof. Smith, and that the inventory required by law from Professors Mallet and Smith are herewith returned and adopted as a part of the report of the Committee.

At an annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on the 29th day of June 1874 the following members of the Board were present, viz

R.G. H. Kean, Rector & Messrs Carrington, Campbell, Montague Smith, & Berkeley.

The Rector called the Board to order.

The Rector appointed the following Committees for the ensuing year.

Finance- Messrs Campbell & Carrington

Grounds & Buildings- Messrs Smith & Berkeley

Apparatus- Messrs Montague & Baker

Library- Messrs Woods & Baker.

The following reports were presented to the Board:

Faculty report.

2\. Proctor & Superintendent's reports.

3\. Prof. Mallet's reports to the Rector & Board of Visitors and to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

4\. Prof. Page's report to the Miller Trustees.

5\. Prof. Boeck's report to the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund.

6\. Report of the Commr of Accounts, Mason Gordon Esqr

7\. Report of the Chairman of the Faculty accompanying the forgoing reports

8\. Report of the Librarian.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 1/2 o'clock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday Present the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Woods.

The Committees appointed on yesterday not being ready to report upon the subjects referred to them and there being no other matters for the consideration of the Board at this time the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow at 91/2 o'clock.

To salary of Prof. Page

$2000.00

To rent for Prof. Page

300.00

To salary of Prof. Mallet

500.00

To salary of Prof. Boeck

300.00

To Farm

1000.00

To two scholarships

1000.00

To Prof. Page for equipment of school

100.00

At a meeting of the Trustees of the Miller Fund held at the University of Virginia on the 30th day of June and 1st of July 1874 the following proceedings were had: On consideration of the communication of the Rector covering an extract from the Report of the Faculty asking that authority be given them to withdraw the Miller Scholarship from the scholar, whenever in their opinion he is not making proper use of its benefits; it is resolved that in the opinion of this Board it is expedient that the authority asked for by the Faculty be given them.

It is respectfully suggested to the Board of Visitors that the payments to the scholar be made quarterly in advance so that in the event of the withdrawal of the Scholarship the unpaid portion of the annual appropriation shall remain to the credit of the Miller Fund.

In the opinion of the Trustees of the Miller Board it is a matter of prime necessity that the school of Agriculture should be fully equipped with proper machinery, anatomical specimens and buildings, and that all of the funds which can be safely withdrawn from other purposes should be applied to the development of the school of Experimental and Practical Agriculture in that direction; Therefore it is resolved that this Board reserves the right at its next annual meeting to suspend any appropriation to the Miller Scholarship, from and after the session ending June 1875 and they respectfully request the Board of Visitors to cause the candidates for said Scholarships to be informed of this resolution.

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the next fiscal year:

And that the balance of any funds collected during the year, shall be applied, First to the payment of the balance of $596.41 due the University, and the residue, if any, shall be applied under the direction of Prof. Page to the equipment of his school.

A copy, Teste

To the School of Natural History and Agriculture for fitting up lecture room & museum & for cutting off engine room by a partition

50.00

To the School of Chemistry

150.00

To the School of N. Philosophy

150.00

To the School of Medicine for the purchase of instruments

50.00

To School of Engineering for repairs to instruments

30.00

To the Library

200.00

The Committee of finance appointed by the Rector on the 29th of June 1874 submit the following report:

I. We have considered the suggestions, made in the report of the Faculty, which refer to appropriations and recommend as follows in respect thereto: We recommend the appropriation of fifty dollars ($50) to be expended in repairs to Lithographic press belonging to the University, provided the faculty shall determine that its use during the next session is expedient.

We also recommend the following appropriations which are suggested in said report, viz

We are not prepared to Act on the recommendation of the Faculty that the next Catalogue include the names of all students who have matriculated since the foundation of the University- We are not informed whether the material is attainable for this object. We suggest that this subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority to make an appropriation therefor not exceeding the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250).

We do not recommend the publication with the Catalogue of selections from the examinations of the students.

The Committee concur fully with the Faculty as to the expediency and propriety of promoting the celebration of the semi-centennial of the University. We have fully considered the suggestions of the Faculty on this subject, but we think it inexpedient that the Board of Visitors make any appropriation for this object. We think that the Board should provide only for the usual order of exercises and that the arrangements for this celebration may with propriety be left to the action of the Society of Alumni. We therefore recommend that the Executive Committee be authorized to confer with any Committee appointed by the Alumni, to make arrangements for the celebration and that said Ex. Committee have authority to grant such proper use of the grounds & buildings as may be necessary.

2\. The Commitree approve the suggestions made by the proctor as to advances made to Boarding House-Keepers and recommend that hereafter no advance be made for a period exceeding one month and then only on such security as is now required.

3\. The Committee recommend that the stated salaries of the Professors as fixed by resolutions of the Board on the 27th day of June 1873, be continued until otherwise ordered. They also recommend that the regulations in relation to the fees of their tuition to be paid to professors & in relation to emoluments, as fixed by the resolutions aforesaid of the 27th of June 1873 numbered from 1 to 5 inclusive be continued in force.

4\. The Committee have considered the question in relation to the salary of Professor Minor, which is set forth in his letter to the Rector dated     day of     1874 and herewith returned.

We have examined the records of the Board from the earliest date to the present time and find that there is some confusion. as to the date at which the salaries of Professors are due, and also as to the periods of time of service for which the salaries are paid. This confusion seems to result from looseness of expression in some of the resolves of the Board- which seem to give countenance to almost any construction which may be contended for. There are however certain fixed points from which a decided conclusion seems deducible.

The services of a professor are due to the University for and during the session of 9 months and for no other period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period. It would therefore appear that his salary is paid for this period, and for no other. The word year is used, but may mean scholastic year and not calendar year. By one resolution of the Board, the salary is to commence from the date of acceptance of the office. Still it will scarcely be contended, that if a professor is elected 1st of July and accepts, and dies or declines the office on the 1st of October that he would be entitled to 3 months pay for these three vacation months.

We find that the stated salaries have been paid in equal instalments, on the 1st October & 1st of April of each year. If a professor be selected on July 1st or in August or in September he would receive his semiannual salary at the commencement of the next session viz 1 Oct. and a similar amount on the 1st of April following. No difference has ever been made because of differences in date of election. From this it seems fairly deducible that the salary was considered as commencing from the beginning of the session, and that one half of it was then paid in advance. The other half being paid on April 1 following. The whole salary for the scholastic year was paid during the session. This seems to have been the view taken by this Board in the Resolutions passed June 27th 1874. The salaries were fixed "for the ensuing year" Again, in the resolution directing payment of the salary of the late Dr. McGuffey after reciting that his duties had been satisfactorily performed by Dr. Withersppon, under arrangement made with the family of Dr. McGuffey payment is directed to be made of the stated salary "for the session of 1872-3" in full. We therefore think that, by the payment made to the several professors of one half of their salaries on 1st October 1872 and one half on 1 April 1873, they had received their stated salaries in full for that scholastic year, which terminated on 1 July 1873. We further are of opinion that no salaries thereafter accrued or commenced running until the 1st of October 1873.

5\. We recommend that the Rector correspond with Col. Charles Marshall, of Baltimore, in reference to the legacy left the University of Va. by Wm. H. Reed, and take such steps, in regard thereto as may be necessary to protect the interests of the University.

The Committee will be unable to report what appropriations should be made for the next year until the reports of other Committees have been made and acted on by the Board.

The undersigned respectfully reports that he has personally examined the Library and he has found everything connected therewith in excellent condition and it gives him pleasure to hear testimony to the evidences of faithful discharge of duty on the part of the Librarian.

The recommendation of the Librarian in his Report that Public Palls shall be hereafter prohibited in the Library, has received careful consideration and after investigation, the undersigned while recognizing and appreciating the conscientious motives of the Librarian in making his suggestions on this point, has arrived at a totally different conclusion. The main objection urged that the Insurance on the Building will be greatly increased if the Annual Ball is held in the Library Hall seems not to be founded on the facts of the case. The Proctor and Superintendent informs the undersigned that the Insurance Companies have raised no objection on this point and are not likely to do so. The danger arising from the use of candles has been obviated by the laying of gas pipes around the galleries and the jets are so arranged that the lignts will project from the galleries and be entirely out of reach of parties on the main floor. In fact in the opinion of the undersigned the danger of fire in the Library on such occasions is as small as in any Hall of a similar character in the Country

As far as the visiting public and the young men are concerned the Annual Ball is one of the chief items of attraction of the session- and it is peculiarly proper that the handsomest Hall at our command should be used for the occasion. Therefore the undersigned recommends that this whole question should be left to the discretion of the Chairman and Faculty as has been the case heretofore.

The undersigned would advise the appropriation of at least $50 for the structure of new cases for the books and for the purchase of new books for the present cases. In the event that financial status of the University is such as not to justify this appropriation out of the general fund the undersigned would suggest that as much as $50 be appropriated for the purpose above indicated, out of the $83, collected for fines.

Your Committee respectfully report that they have inspected the grounds & public buildings and are gratified to state they are in improved condition generally. The grounds are no longer disfigured by paths but present the appearance of a well kept lawn. And the buildings are in a fair state of preservation. The committee with pleasure say that everything practicable seems to have been done to make the best show in and about the University.

The University Farm has improved in appearance, and the crops indicate that the tillage has been industrious, and in view of the unusual thinness of the land, encouragingly successful.

The Committee have had their attention directed to the decayed condition of the porch to the rear of Col. Peters Pavilion and the dampness of Prof. Minor's basement. And they recommend the appropriation of $40.00 for the repair of the former and $125 for the drainage and reflooring of the latter.

The Committee being satisfied that Prof. Minor absolutely needs increased accommodation for his family, recommend that the dormitory next to the room now used by him as his office be assigned to him until the necessary addition can be made to his residence.

The Committee find the floor of the basement of the Infirmary rotten and in need of repair and they deem it advisable to have it replaced, and provisions made to make the basement less damp and ore comfortable, they therefore recommand the appropriation of $150 towards said improvement.

The Committee in response to application of Prof. Minor to the Board of Visitors, recommend he be allowed one dormitory for students who may board with him, provided that the said dormitory shall not be on the lawn, and shall be selected so as not to interfore with the assignment to the Hotel Keepers if practicable.

Upon the several applications of Prof. Smith, Boeck and Dunnington the Committee recommend that no action shall be taken at present.

The Committee recommend that dormitory No. 6 reserved for the Board of Visitors on the lawn, in which the records of the Board are now kept, be no longer used for such purpose, and that the records be removed to the Library for safe keeping and the said dormitory be turned over to the Proctor for the use of students.

Your Committee respectfully reports, that they made a full and particular examination so far as they were competent, therefor, of the Laboratory of the University and of the Philosophic Apparatus in charge of Prof. Smith, and that the inventory required by law from Professors Mallet and Smith are herewith returned and adopted as a part of the report of the Committee.
