---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1876'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
To Mineralogy

5/28

To Geology

10/28

To Zoology

13/28

Salary of officers

$3,880.00

Advertising

600.00

Printing

140.00

Catalogue

500.00

Repairs & Improvements

3,000.00

Labour

1,200.00

Contingent

1,250.00

Interest

7,500.00

Library

300.00

Fuel

500.00

Gas

500.00

Insurance

600.00

Diplomas

350.00

Infirmary Deficit

445.10

School of Nat. Philos.

150.00

School of Chemistry

150.00

School of App. Math.

30.00

Sinking Fund

1,000.00

Three months' salary to Prof. Gildersleeve

250.00

Salaries of Assistants

Dunnington $800, Towles $500

Santos $500

1,800.00

Commutations of Rents

900.00

Total of appropriations for General Expense

$25,045.10

Funded

$86,000

Floating

10,253.09

Total

$96.253.09

Salaries (Three physicians)

$1,500.00

Matron

480.00

Servants

135.00

Fuel

145.00

Gas

25.00

Ice

15.00

Supplies &c

60.00

Total

$2,360.00

Interest on the loan for cases &c for Natural History

$ 800.00

To Experimental Farm

1000.00

To Prof. Page's salary

2000.00

To Prof. Mallet's salary

400.00

To Prof. Thornton's salary

225.00

To Prof. Page for publication of report on the cultivation of corn & wheat crops

75.00

Total

$4500.00

At a regular meeting of the Board of Visitors held this day at the Infirmary- Present, Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector, and Messrs Conrad, Gilmore, Hart, Marye, Randolph and Whitehead Messrs John L. Marye and Paul Whitehead having been commissioned by His Excellency Gov. James L. Kemper since the last meeting of the Board.

The Executive Committee submitted its report which upon being read and considered on motion was received and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the Minutes of the Board.

As chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report.

The Committee met Professor Ward at the University May 12th who stated that he was ready to enter into a contract to furnish the Cabinet; the donation for which was accepted by you at your last meeting. The Committee of the Faculty appointed by the Board was requested to confer with Mr. Ward and furnish us the outline of the contents of such a Cabinet as he was willing to furnish and such as in their opinion we were entitled to receive for the sum donated. Their report having been approved a contract which is transmitted herewith was drawn and signed-Deeming it desirable both to ensure the safety of bonds donated and to have them in a position to be readily converted into money the Chairman was requested to communicate with Riggs & Co. Bankers, Washington, D. C. and ascertain if it would not be best to make that house the depository and principal Agents of the fund.

At a subsequent meeting they were made the principal Agents and the bonds sent to them. The Committee thinking that it would be wise to avail themselves of Prof. Ward's experience and knowledge of such buildings requested him to have drawn under his supervision such a plan for the Museum Building as he would advise selecting a Rochester Architect if there was one in whom he had confidence and directing him not to exceed the sum specified in the donation.

To save time and avail ourselves of this building season-the Proctor was directed to proceed to make the brick and prepare to furnish lime and sand as rapidly as it should be needed He has now one hundred and fifty thousand brick in his yard ready for the fires. On the 25th of May the Committee met Prof. Ward to examine elevation and ground plans of the Museum Building as furnished by the Architect, Mr. J. P. Thomas.

The plans having been approved and Mr. Wards bargain with Mr. Thomas, namely, two per cent on cost of building and seventy five dollars for visit to this place having been sanctioned he was requested to direct Mr. Thomas to prepare specifications, working, drawings &c and as soon as practicable to forward them and be present in person when bids were opened. His presence was deemed necessary as it was feared that his design could not be completed for the money donated and he alone could properly revise it. To prevent loss of time eight or nine of the most reliable contractors in the state were written to and requested to be prepared to bid on the work.

June 9th Mr. Thomas being present the bids from some seven or eight firms were opened and were found to exceed the sum donated by varying amounts all exceeding it by several thousand dollars.

The plan was returned to Mr. Thomas, Architect, and he was requested to thoroughly inform himself as to the itemized prices of building in this part of the country and revise his plan so as to bring it within the sum donated for the purpose. To save time the Proctor was directed to proceed to have the foundation excavated. On consultation with the Architect the majority of the Committee selected a point between the Washington Hall and the Staunton Turnpike, near the latter, as the site for the building.

Dr. Mallet, Prof. of Chemistry submitted a proposition that was made him by the authorities of the Hopkins University that he should deliver twenty lectures under their auspicies in the City of Baltimore. The Committee having perfect confidence in Prof. Mallet's conscientious discharge of every duty to his class and the University left it to him to decide whether it would be detrimental to his class if not we would assent to his absence.

It having been ascertained that it was necessary for the Board to take further action to legalize the transfer of bonds donated, the Committee urge immediate action as the money will now be made at once.

Memorandum of a contract made and entered into, this 13th day of May 1876, between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia acting through its Executive Committee under authority of the Resolution of the Board of Visitors passed on the 19th day of April 1876, of the first part, and Professor Henry A. Ward of Rochester in the State of New York of the second part, witnesseth:

The said Henry A. Ward of his part for the consideration hereinafter named contracts and agrees to furnish to the University of Virginia, Cabinets of Mineralogy, Ceology and Zoology the general scope, character and extent of which, are indicated in the annexed Catalogue of their contents (marked schedule A) which accompanied this contract and forms a part thereof.

It is understood and agreed, that these Cabinets shall contain all the specimens enumerated in said Catalogue, as well as all others which may be required to fulfil its letter and spirit. It is further understood and agreed that the general distribution of the material of these Cabinets (having reference to values and not bulk) shall be substantially as follows.

And it is further understood and agreed that the prices charged by said Ward for any of these specimens may equal but shall not exceed the price named in his printed Catalogue copies of which have been furnished the Executive Committee.

The said Ward agrees to deliver the said Cabinet at his own expense and risk in every particular whatsoever, in the Museum Hall to be provided at the University, and to arrange them in complete order and in scientific classification; with all needed mountings, headings, labels and other needed fixtures of every kind and description whatsoever, and incases to be provided for him by the said University.

But the duty and expense of keeping the material from the time of its delivery at the University, and at the door of the building in which it is to be kept until its final arrangement by Mr. Ward in the Museum Hall, shall be borne by the said University and also all expense of insuring the same against loss or damage by fire, the said Ward himself agreeing to insure the same against all other loss, injury or risk.

And in consideration of the services and performances of said Ward, in collecting, arranging and preparing the said Cabinets at Rochester, the said party of the first part, agrees to pay him the sum of twenty five thousand dollars with any additional amount which may be derived by way of premium from the sale of twenty five of the Bonds of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Bail Road Company recently donated to the University by a liberal Citizen of Rochester and in the State of New York together with all interest which may have accrued on the same at the time of said sale or on the avails thereof at any time while under the control of the University.

The said sum of money to be paid as follows:

1\. A sum not exceeding five thousand dollars upon the delivery at the University of material to about that value with accurate lists thereof which said Henry A. Ward has now on hand and which he proposes to forward in a short time.

2\. Ten thousand dollars whenever he (said Ward) is ready to proceed on the trip abroad which he proposes to take in the course of the coming summer in reference to his duties under this contract.

3\. The remainder of the amount specified, shall be paid from time to time as the material for these Cabinets shall be delivered at the University except that the sum of five thousand dollars may be reserved, till the final mounting and arrangement of the Cabinets in the Museum shall be completed; and provided that for the said second payment and for all further payments after the sum remaining unpaid shall be reduced to ten thousand dollars and under the said Ward shall execute satisfactory Bonds of indemnity to the University, securing it against all loss or damage from misapplication further agrees to pay to the said Ward the further sum of twenty five hundred dollars which shall be his compensation for transporting, delivering, mounting and labelling &c, the Cabinets as above stated, the same to be paid in the way of freight on said materials, and the balance when said work shall be completed.

Finally it is agreed by the parties to this contract that, if on the completion of these Cabinets there shall arise any question as to character of materials in accordance with the contract and the Catalogue accompanying it, or as to the value of the Cabinets or any constituent part thereof, then and in such case the within named gentlemen shall be called in as Experts to decide such question and their decision or the decision of a majority of them shall be final between the parties. The gentlemen to be so selected shall be Professor Joseph Henry of the Smithsonian Instituteion at Washington, Professor J. S. Newberry of Columbia College School of Mines, New York, and Professor J. W. Mallet of the University of Virginia.

In testimony of the making and execution of this contract as binding between the University of Virginia and the said Henry A. Ward, Alexander H. H. Stuart, the Rector of the said University, and the same A. H. H. Stuart, Thomas S. Bocock & W. C. N. Randolph, Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors and also the said Henry A. Ward have signed and sealed the same.

Alex. H. H. Stuart (seal) Rector

signed Alex. H. H. Stuart

signed Th. S. Bocock

signed W. C. N. Randolph

signed Henry A. Ward.

Resolved, that for the purpose of facilitating the sale and transfer of the consolidated Mortgage Bonds of the Chicago Burlington & Quincy Rail Road Co. now standing in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; in such instalments as may be needed for erecting the Building and procuring the Cabinet of Mineralogy, Geology &c the Hon A. H. H. Stuart, Rector of the University be and he is hereby authorized to Execute and cause to be delivered unto J. N. Dennison, Assistant Treasurer of said Railroad Co. a Power of Attorney empower- ing him as the attorney of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Va. to transfer and assign all of said mortgage Bonds numbered from Nos. 4051 to 4095 inclusive, unto such person or persons as said Attorney may be thereunto directed by the joint order of said A. H. H. Stuart, Rector, and the Banking House of Riggs & Co. of Washington City.

And the Board doth hereby approve the action of the Executive Committee of this Board in appointing said Banking House of Riggs & Co. as the financial Agents of the Board for negotiating the sale of said Bonds.

The letter of Geo. W. Ward & others recommending Mr. W. Roy Stephenson of Frederick County for appointment as state student, was presented and read and on motion was referred to the Faculty.

A letter from Dr. Chs. G. Barney addressed to Dr. Randolph as a member of the Board, proposing to exchange some duplicate volumes in his possession for some duplicate volumes in the University Library was presented & upon being read on motion the same was referred to the Library Committee.

The Chairman of the Faculty appeared before the Board and presented for its consideration the Annual report of the Faculty with accompanying documents which were received and ordered to be sorted for consideration by the Board.

The Chairman of the Faculty also submitted to the Board the applications and testimonials of the applicants for the vacancy in the Chair of Greek & Hebrew - the applicants being

Prof. Thos R. Price of Va. & Prof. James D. Coleman of Miss.

On motion the Board proceeded to consider the claims of these gentlemen and to an election to fill said vacancy which resulted in the unanimous election of Prof. Thomas R. Price.

Resolved—that the Secretary inform Prof. Price of his election by letter and request that he reply by letter signifying his acceptance.

The Rector appointed the standing committees as follows: Finance - Messrs Bocock, Randolph and Conrad.

Apparatus - Messrs Hart, Gilmore & Whitehead.

Grounds & Buildings - Messrs Randolph, Marye & Gilmore.

Library - Messrs Marye, Goode & Hart.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday and in addition Hon. John Goode Jr. who was commissioned as a Visitor of the University by his Excellency Gov. James L. Kemper, Governor of Va.

On motion the Board proceeded with the reading and consideration of the Report of the Faculty resulting in the following resolutions:

Resolved, That that part of the report of the Faculty in regard to arrangements for messing be referred to a special Committee of three.

The Rector appointed on this Committee Messrs Hart, Gilmore and Goode.

Resolved, that the proposition of the Society to build a Hall on University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That the petition of G. B. Hazelhurst be granted with the condition endorsed therein and recommended by the Faculty and with such other & further conditons as the Faculty may deem proper to be imposed.

Resolved, That the letter of proposal of N. Francis Cabell Esq. in respect to the originals of the correspondence of Jefferson & Cabell be referred to the Library Committee.

Resolved, That so much of the report of the Faculty as has reference to the defective sewage of the University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the kind and extent of examinations of Va. students required under the recent Act of the General Assembly providing for free tuition be referred to a Committee of three who will consider and make Report to this Board as to the mode of carrying that Act into operation.

Committee under the foregoing resolution: Messrs. Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as refers to the Agricultural Department be referred to the Committee in regard to the Miller Fund.

Resolved, That a standing Committee of three be appointed to be called a Committee on the "Miller Fund" with instructions to take into consideration the relative rights of the two Boards, and report.

Committee appointed under the foregoing resolution—Messrs. Conrad, Goode & Gilmore.

Resolved, That so much of the reports of the Faculty as relates to the compensation of Professors be referred to the Finance Committee.

Resolved, that so much of the report of the Faculty as relates to the portrait of the late Genl. J. E. B. Stuart recently sent to the University by Mr. Elden the Artist as a gift by Mr. W. A. Stuart be referred to John L. Marye, Esq. with directions to prepare a letter to be addressed to that gentleman expressing the thanks of this Board.

Resolved, That the Board a prove the order of the Board of Visitors made June 27th 1872 (found in its minutes page 340, page 303 typed copy) requiring that all appropriations both regular and special should be made specific and in detail and that appropriations thus prescribed be not transcended as to the limits, nor diverted from the objects prescribed to other objects. And that the Proctor shew in his annual accounts the respective amounts which were appropriated for each object, and how much has been disbursed under each head. And this Board declares that the said order shall continue in force, until specifically modified.

But it is not intended, that this resolution shall restrict the discretionary authority of the Executive Committee when the latter shall see cause to allow in express terms a departure from the prescription of the order.

The Board having considered the proposition made by N. Francis Cabell, Esq. to sell to the University the original MSS of the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and Joseph C. Cabell in reference to the establishment of the University, regret to feel compelled to decline the offer because of the very limited pecuniary means of the Institution- and the Chairman of the Faculty is requested to communicate this conclusion of the Board to Mr. Cabell.

On motion the Board adjourned till tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Marye.

The Committee to whom was referred the subject of the organization of Messes among the students - submitted the following report which upon being read and considered on motion the same was adopted and ordered to be spread upon the Minutes:

The Committee to whom was referred that part of the Report of the Faculty on the organization of Messes among the students of the University of Va.

Report-

That in their judgment it is very important that suitable provision be made for the most efficient working of the Messing system in the University. They therefore recommend the adoption of the following order.

Ordered-

1\. That the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized and instructed to make such arrangements as shall best carry out this design and that he is requested to make to this Board at its next annual meeting a full report of result.

2\. That a sum to be fixed by the Executive Committee be approrpiated to be used so far as may be needful in the execution of this order which sum or any part thereof shall be paid on the order of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Mr. Marye appeared and took his seat in Board.

The Committee to whom was referred the report of the Faculty in relation to the kind and extent of examinations of Va. Students required under the recent Act of the General Assembly submitted the following as their report which on motion after being read and considered was adopted:

Ordered-

That until further ordered, the cause of examination for applicants for admission to the University and to the several Schools under the provision of the Act of Assembly Chap. 102 1875-76 be as follows, viz-

The Committee of the Faculty appointed to report on the Examinations to be held for the admission of Virginia Students, over 18 years of age to the Academic Schools of the University, under the recent Enactment of the Legislature, Recommend

That for admission to the University all such applicants be required to pass satisfactorily once for all an examinationin English Grammar & Composition, in Modern Geography, in Arithmatic including the Four Elementary Rules- Vulgar and Decimal Fractions- Proportion- and the Metric System of Denominate Numbers.

That for admission to the several schools they be required to pass a satisfactory examination

1\. In Latin - in the Grammar, in Caesar's Commentaries- in Virgil's Aeneid- Books I-VI inclusive- Cicero's Orations against Cataline.

2\. In Greek - in Elementary Greek Grammar, Xenophon's Anabasis Books I-IV - Homers Iliad- Books I-II- exclusive of the Catalogue of the Ships.

3\. In Modern Languages - the General Examination only.

4\. In Mathematics- Algebra embracing the fundamental operations - Simple and Quadratic Equations, Proportion, Progression and Logarithims, Geometry, Plane and Solid.

5\. In Moral Philosophy - the General Examination only.

6\. In History, Literature and Rhetoric, in any compendious History of the United States or of Greece or Rome or England.

7\. In Natural Philosophy (Class of Physics) in plane Geometry.

8\. In General & Industrial Chemistry- the General Examination only.

9\. In Natural History and Agriculture- the General Examination only.

The preparation required for the advanced classes in the several schools is indicated by the courses laid down in the Catalogue.

The Examinations will be held on the 26 September and the following days, and students applying for admission under the law are urged to present themselves promptly on the 26th.

2\. That the Chairman of the Faculty give notice of the foregoing course by publishing the same in such form as to the Faculty may seem best.

3\. That authority is hereby given to the Faculty to establish local examination for Common School and high school Education at several Centres to be selected by them in the State, provided that the examination be at no cost to the University- and that they be a voluntary work- on the part of the Professor who may be put in charge of them.

On the recommendation of the Finance Committee the following appropriations were approved and adopted.

The following report of the Finance Committee accompanied by the foregoing list was received and on being read and considered was on motion approved and adopted. Ordered

That the scheme proposed in the recommendation of the Faculty for the general appropriation and the payment of Professors' salaries of the Professors in the several schools shall be as provided for in said scheme as follows- viz-

The Faculty would respectfully recommend that all the receipts of the University and all the fees except those of the Law Department and those of the Adjunct Professorship of Analytical Chemistry and the Assistant Draughtsman be put in a general fund, That from this fund, first the necessary appropriations for officers salaries and general purposes shall be made as given in the schedule herewith appended.

Second that, that the balance left be used first to give a salary of $2000 to each of the Professors of the Medical and Academical Departments, the Adjunct Professor of Applied Mathematics who is as to emoluments on the same basis of a full Professor and the Professor of Agriculture & Natural History (thirteen in all) and then that the surplus left be divided equally among the thirteen Professors above named.

Third that the two Law Professors be paid as at present $100 salary each with the fees of their schools.

But this action of the Board is induced by the recommendation of the Faculty and shall not be taken and regarded as an expression of opinion on the part of the Board- as to the just basis upon which the amount of said salaries- and the manner of their appropriation should be permanently established.

A balance of four hundred and forty five 10/100 dollars against the Infirmary Fund ocurred in the past session and the Proctor thinks that the Infirmary will regularly fall short of meeting its expenses by some two hundred and twenty five dollars-In the opinion of your committee the Infirmary ought to be made self sustaining. And in view of the fact that in the management of sick, physicians can alone economize , they would recommend that it be referred to the Executive Committee to ascertain and report to your next meeting whether it would not be better to repeal all action of the Board that has taken the management of the Infirmary Fund out of the hands of the Physicians in whose hands it was originally placed and if in their judgment it is deemed best to restore its entire management to the Physicians at once they shall be and are hereby empowered to do so.

A deficit having occurred in the interest of the Miller Fund in the past year its Trustees deeming that they had the right and thinking it best, reduced the amount appropriated to the salary and commutation of Prof. Page four hundred & seventy-five dollars. The implied contract between our predecessors and each of the Professors that their minimum pay should not be under $2000 and their commutation for rent not less than $300 makes it obligatory on us to make up the deficit to Dr. Page. We therefore protesting against the necessity which was never contemplated and should not occur of our having to appropriate funds to this department from other resources of the University recommend the appropriation of four hundred and seventy-five dollars to Dr. Page.

The Proctor in his report (Appendix 8) states the debt of the University to be:

The Proctor reports verbally that under the order of the Board for re-funding the debt he has exchanged some $8,000 of the 8% bonds for the new bonds issued by them. Of the floating debt $5,793.74 was of the date of May 31st 1875, the balance $4839.44 is an increase on the debt of last year. Against the debt of $10,253.09 he reports a reduction of the bonded debt of $1000 and the sum of $9,255.35 locked up in the Charlottesville National Bank. Of the latter he hopes to get $1000 in the next year- not more than $4000 in all.

It will be seen then that if it had not been for the failure of the Bank we would have diminished our floating debt instead of increasing it.

Your Committee concur in the recommendation of the Faculty that any surplus in the revenue of the Institution be appropriated to pay for repairs and to reduce the debt.

The Finance papers of the "Miller Fund" being in the hands of a special Committee on that subject, Your Committee will consider them as soon as they can obtain them and report on them to the Board.

Respectfully submitted

W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Finance Committee as relates to the Infirmary is hereby adopted and it is ordered that the whole subject be placed in the hands of the Executive Committee with the authority to act fully and finally in the premises.

Resolved, that that part of the Report of the Finance Committee recommending the appropriation of $475 to make up the deficiency in Prof. Page's salary be adopted and that the said appropriation is hereby ordered.

The following supplement to the Report of the Finance Committee was submitted and on motion was approved and adopted.

Appropriations to Infirmary Fund:

Resolved, that the foregoing appropriations be approved & the report adopted.

Ordered, that so much of the report of the Finance Committee as concurs in the recommendation of the Faculty that any surplus in the Revenue of this Institution be appropriated to pay for repairs and to reduce the debts be and the same is hereby adopted.

Ordered- The Board respond to the Communication of Charles G. Barney by authorizing Dr. W. C. N. Randolph in conjunction with the Librarian to exchange duplicate volumes in the Library of Virginia History for any works of Virginia History offered for exchange by Dr. Barney to the extent that such exchange shall appear to them beneficial to the Library.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 O'clock.

Jas. D. Jones Secretary

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

Prof. James F. Harrison was elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, by unanimous vote.

Ordered- That in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of date October 5th 1875 student J. B. Preston is excused from attendance on the Lectures in the School of History &c and that in attaining to the degree of M. A. he is allowed substitute Political Economy for History.

Resolved

1\. That this Board, in accepting the resignation of Prof. B. L. Gildersleeve, desires to put on record the statement of its high appreciation of the solid and brilliant services which during his residence at the University, he has rendered to the cause of Greek Scholarship in general, and in particular to the reputation of the University in its Greek department,=And that the Board can only wish for Prof. Gildersleeve in his future care a success commensurate with his merits.

2\. That the Secretary furnish Prof. Gildersleeve a copy of this resolution.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following as its report which was received & adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

The Committee on the Miller Fund report that after some delay, occasioned by the want of a quorum of the Miller Board. They were invited by the Miller Board to a conference on the subject of the relative power of the two Boards over the distribution of the endowment fund. And upon an interchange of views, it was finally considered by the Miller Board, in view of the absence of several of its members that no definitive action could be taken by them at this time, Upon the subject- but that the usual appropriation would be made by them for the ensuing year, and that such action as might be found necessary in regard to determining the rights and powers of the two Boards be deferred for the present.

The appropriations made by the Miller Board for the ensuing year are herewith returned marked (A).

They recommend that Dr. John R. Page be authorized to return in the name of this Board, to the donors of such articles as may be contributed for the use of his school an appropriate expression of thanks.

The following appropriations were made for the year 1876-7 by the Miller Board. viz

Resolved that the unexpended balance of $380.09 of the appropriation for the session of 1875-6 now in the hands of the Proctor be applied to the salary of Prof. Page for the session of 1875-6; but this appropriation is made with the distinct declaration of this Board that it is not to be regarded as incumbent upon the Miller Board to provide for the whole of Prof. Page's salary. This Board adheres to the views heretofore expressed that Prof. Page is entitled to receive from the Board of Visitors like compensation with other Professors and that the Miller Board will contribute only such sum as it deems proper, to aid the Board of Visitors in paying such salary.

Resolved, That the Miller Board be requested to appoint a special committee to confer with the committee appointed by the Board of Visitors to consider and report upon the relative rights and powers of the two Boards over the income arising from the Miller endowment.

Ordered-

1\. That the present arrangement made Sept. 15th 1875 by which an adjunct Professor of Mathematics takes the place of the Professor of Applied Mathematics & Civil Engineering be continued until otherwise ordered.

2\. That the appointment of Professor Wm. M. Thornton as Adjunct Professor of Mathematics is hereby renewed.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read was ordered to be received and adopted.

The standing Committee on Apparatus report that they have not made a personal examination of the Apparatus of the School of General and Applied Chemistry, They however make the following extract from Prof. Mallet's report to the Miller Board.

"The Apparatus and collections of the School are in good and efficient condition with the exception of an air pump formerly reported as found in the Laboratory broken, and one Torsin Electromiter by giving way of cement on collar during warm weather. Prof. Smith reports the Apparatus in his school in a fair state of efficiency and that no material additions thereto have been made during the past summer. It is greatly to be regretted that the finances do not admit very desirable additions to the Apparatus in Light Heat & Electricity.

Resolved, That the Board declines to accede to the request submitted by Mr. Thomas Seddon in behalf of the Norwood School in regard to the scholarship in the University, and that the Secretary send a copy of this resolution to Mr. Seddon.

The Committee on Grounds and Buildings submitted their report as follows:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia. The Committee on Grounds & Buildings beg to submit the following report:

In reply to Mr. Minor's letter asking that his present pavilion be enlarged or that pavilion No 1 may be assigned him they have to say that they have ascertained that Prof. Minor prefers waiting a reasonable time for enlargement of his Pavilion if that can be done. They would therefore recommend that the Board assure him that they will enlarge his present pavilion so soon as the same can be safely done from the income of the Institutuion, and they also recommend that the partition between his present office and the adjoining dormitory be removed and the floor lowered so as to enlarge his office and thus give him the two dormitories asked for.

We recommend assigning to Mr. Minor the dormitory now adjoining his present dormitory which will be taken into his new office, until his house is enlarged.

With regard to the application of Miss Ross asking to be permitted to keep boarders and to have the use of comfortable rooms for them they recommend that this whole subject be turned over to the Chairman of the Faculty empowering him to grant her the privileges asked for upon such terms as to him may seem proper restricting the said privileges to the use and benefit of students of the Institution and of any private schools taught by any professor, alone- With regard to the request of Dr. Davis asking that a back porch be built to his house to convert a blank front door into a window and that the privy be removed into his house, he paying one half of the expense of said removal. Your Committee have to say that whilst they regard all the improvements asked for by Dr. Davis reasonable and proper yet on account of the limited means of the Institution they can only now recommend the appropriation of fifty dollars, the sum asked for for the removal of the privy.

Your Committee recommend that the request of Prof. Venable that he be put on the Commutation list and no pavilion be assigned him be granted.

They recommend that the Pavilion now occupied by Prof. Gildersleeve be assigned to Prof. Page and that the house on Monroe Hill now occupied by Prof. Venable and which he proposes to vacate, be assigned to Prof. Price.

We recommend that so much of the report of the faculty as refers to the connexion of sewers with the waterfall from the buildings be adopted and that its execution be referred to the Executive Committee, who are directed, that unless in their opinion the expense is too great the Proctor shall be ordered to complete the plan at once.

The Committee are of opinion that the grounds are in as good condition and as well cared for as they can be taking into consideration the limited means of the Institution- The buildings need repairs very much and your Committee would advise the appropriation of all funds that can be spared for the next two or three years for their purpose.

(signed) W. C. N. Randolph

Chairman.

Resolved, that the foregoing report of the Committee on Grounds and Buildings be approved and adopted and that the appropriations therein recommmended be ordered to be made.

On motion the Rector, Dr. Randolph and Mr. Bocock were elected as the Executive Committee of the Board.

The Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 1/2 Oclock.

Jas. D. Jones Secy.

Alex. H. H. Stuart Rector

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the Rector & Messrs Conrad, Hart, Marye & Randolph.

Resolved, that the Board regret to be unable to grant the request of Mr. Wertenbaker for an extra allowance of $100 for his services during the past year, in view of the very strqitened financial condition of the University, and the uncertain operation of the recent changes as to its yearly income.

Ordered, that the Secretary address a note to Rev. Charles H. Ryland of Richmond explaining that in view of all the circumstances of the case and particularly in view of the fact that this Board has prescribed conditions of admission of Virginia Students under the late Act of Legislature which it hopes will be satisfactory to all, the Board declines to send representatives of the University to the proposed Convention of Colleges in the City of Richmond in connection with the next meeting of the Educational Association of Va.

Ordered, the Trustees having appropriated three hundred and Eighty Dollars to the deficit in Dr. Page's salary the Proctor is directed to pay the balance of ninety-five dollars out of the Contingent fund.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on the 26th day of June next.

As chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report.

The Committee met Professor Ward at the University May 12th who stated that he was ready to enter into a contract to furnish the Cabinet; the donation for which was accepted by you at your last meeting. The Committee of the Faculty appointed by the Board was requested to confer with Mr. Ward and furnish us the outline of the contents of such a Cabinet as he was willing to furnish and such as in their opinion we were entitled to receive for the sum donated. Their report having been approved a contract which is transmitted herewith was drawn and signed-Deeming it desirable both to ensure the safety of bonds donated and to have them in a position to be readily converted into money the Chairman was requested to communicate with Riggs & Co. Bankers, Washington, D. C. and ascertain if it would not be best to make that house the depository and principal Agents of the fund.

At a subsequent meeting they were made the principal Agents and the bonds sent to them. The Committee thinking that it would be wise to avail themselves of Prof. Ward's experience and knowledge of such buildings requested him to have drawn under his supervision such a plan for the Museum Building as he would advise selecting a Rochester Architect if there was one in whom he had confidence and directing him not to exceed the sum specified in the donation.

To save time and avail ourselves of this building season-the Proctor was directed to proceed to make the brick and prepare to furnish lime and sand as rapidly as it should be needed He has now one hundred and fifty thousand brick in his yard ready for the fires. On the 25th of May the Committee met Prof. Ward to examine elevation and ground plans of the Museum Building as furnished by the Architect, Mr. J. P. Thomas.

The plans having been approved and Mr. Wards bargain with Mr. Thomas, namely, two per cent on cost of building and seventy five dollars for visit to this place having been sanctioned he was requested to direct Mr. Thomas to prepare specifications, working, drawings &c and as soon as practicable to forward them and be present in person when bids were opened. His presence was deemed necessary as it was feared that his design could not be completed for the money donated and he alone could properly revise it. To prevent loss of time eight or nine of the most reliable contractors in the state were written to and requested to be prepared to bid on the work.

June 9th Mr. Thomas being present the bids from some seven or eight firms were opened and were found to exceed the sum donated by varying amounts all exceeding it by several thousand dollars.

The plan was returned to Mr. Thomas, Architect, and he was requested to thoroughly inform himself as to the itemized prices of building in this part of the country and revise his plan so as to bring it within the sum donated for the purpose. To save time the Proctor was directed to proceed to have the foundation excavated. On consultation with the Architect the majority of the Committee selected a point between the Washington Hall and the Staunton Turnpike, near the latter, as the site for the building.

Dr. Mallet, Prof. of Chemistry submitted a proposition that was made him by the authorities of the Hopkins University that he should deliver twenty lectures under their auspicies in the City of Baltimore. The Committee having perfect confidence in Prof. Mallet's conscientious discharge of every duty to his class and the University left it to him to decide whether it would be detrimental to his class if not we would assent to his absence.

It having been ascertained that it was necessary for the Board to take further action to legalize the transfer of bonds donated, the Committee urge immediate action as the money will now be made at once.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday and in addition Hon. John Goode Jr. who was commissioned as a Visitor of the University by his Excellency Gov. James L. Kemper, Governor of Va.

On motion the Board proceeded with the reading and consideration of the Report of the Faculty resulting in the following resolutions:

Resolved, That that part of the report of the Faculty in regard to arrangements for messing be referred to a special Committee of three.

The Rector appointed on this Committee Messrs Hart, Gilmore and Goode.

Resolved, that the proposition of the Society to build a Hall on University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That the petition of G. B. Hazelhurst be granted with the condition endorsed therein and recommended by the Faculty and with such other & further conditons as the Faculty may deem proper to be imposed.

Resolved, That the letter of proposal of N. Francis Cabell Esq. in respect to the originals of the correspondence of Jefferson & Cabell be referred to the Library Committee.

Resolved, That so much of the report of the Faculty as has reference to the defective sewage of the University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the kind and extent of examinations of Va. students required under the recent Act of the General Assembly providing for free tuition be referred to a Committee of three who will consider and make Report to this Board as to the mode of carrying that Act into operation.

Committee under the foregoing resolution: Messrs. Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as refers to the Agricultural Department be referred to the Committee in regard to the Miller Fund.

Resolved, That a standing Committee of three be appointed to be called a Committee on the "Miller Fund" with instructions to take into consideration the relative rights of the two Boards, and report.

Committee appointed under the foregoing resolution—Messrs. Conrad, Goode & Gilmore.

Resolved, That so much of the reports of the Faculty as relates to the compensation of Professors be referred to the Finance Committee.

Resolved, that so much of the report of the Faculty as relates to the portrait of the late Genl. J. E. B. Stuart recently sent to the University by Mr. Elden the Artist as a gift by Mr. W. A. Stuart be referred to John L. Marye, Esq. with directions to prepare a letter to be addressed to that gentleman expressing the thanks of this Board.

Resolved, That the Board a prove the order of the Board of Visitors made June 27th 1872 (found in its minutes page 340, page 303 typed copy) requiring that all appropriations both regular and special should be made specific and in detail and that appropriations thus prescribed be not transcended as to the limits, nor diverted from the objects prescribed to other objects. And that the Proctor shew in his annual accounts the respective amounts which were appropriated for each object, and how much has been disbursed under each head. And this Board declares that the said order shall continue in force, until specifically modified.

But it is not intended, that this resolution shall restrict the discretionary authority of the Executive Committee when the latter shall see cause to allow in express terms a departure from the prescription of the order.

The Board having considered the proposition made by N. Francis Cabell, Esq. to sell to the University the original MSS of the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and Joseph C. Cabell in reference to the establishment of the University, regret to feel compelled to decline the offer because of the very limited pecuniary means of the Institution- and the Chairman of the Faculty is requested to communicate this conclusion of the Board to Mr. Cabell.

On motion the Board adjourned till tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Marye.

The Committee to whom was referred the subject of the organization of Messes among the students - submitted the following report which upon being read and considered on motion the same was adopted and ordered to be spread upon the Minutes:

The Committee to whom was referred that part of the Report of the Faculty on the organization of Messes among the students of the University of Va.

Report-

That in their judgment it is very important that suitable provision be made for the most efficient working of the Messing system in the University. They therefore recommend the adoption of the following order.

Ordered-

1\. That the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized and instructed to make such arrangements as shall best carry out this design and that he is requested to make to this Board at its next annual meeting a full report of result.

2\. That a sum to be fixed by the Executive Committee be approrpiated to be used so far as may be needful in the execution of this order which sum or any part thereof shall be paid on the order of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Interest on the loan for cases &c for Natural History

$ 800.00

To Experimental Farm

1000.00

To Prof. Page's salary

2000.00

To Prof. Mallet's salary

400.00

To Prof. Thornton's salary

225.00

To Prof. Page for publication of report on the cultivation of corn & wheat crops

75.00

Total

$4500.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

Prof. James F. Harrison was elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, by unanimous vote.

Ordered- That in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of date October 5th 1875 student J. B. Preston is excused from attendance on the Lectures in the School of History &c and that in attaining to the degree of M. A. he is allowed substitute Political Economy for History.

Resolved

1\. That this Board, in accepting the resignation of Prof. B. L. Gildersleeve, desires to put on record the statement of its high appreciation of the solid and brilliant services which during his residence at the University, he has rendered to the cause of Greek Scholarship in general, and in particular to the reputation of the University in its Greek department,=And that the Board can only wish for Prof. Gildersleeve in his future care a success commensurate with his merits.

2\. That the Secretary furnish Prof. Gildersleeve a copy of this resolution.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following as its report which was received & adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

The Committee on the Miller Fund report that after some delay, occasioned by the want of a quorum of the Miller Board. They were invited by the Miller Board to a conference on the subject of the relative power of the two Boards over the distribution of the endowment fund. And upon an interchange of views, it was finally considered by the Miller Board, in view of the absence of several of its members that no definitive action could be taken by them at this time, Upon the subject- but that the usual appropriation would be made by them for the ensuing year, and that such action as might be found necessary in regard to determining the rights and powers of the two Boards be deferred for the present.

The appropriations made by the Miller Board for the ensuing year are herewith returned marked (A).

They recommend that Dr. John R. Page be authorized to return in the name of this Board, to the donors of such articles as may be contributed for the use of his school an appropriate expression of thanks.

The following appropriations were made for the year 1876-7 by the Miller Board. viz

Resolved that the unexpended balance of $380.09 of the appropriation for the session of 1875-6 now in the hands of the Proctor be applied to the salary of Prof. Page for the session of 1875-6; but this appropriation is made with the distinct declaration of this Board that it is not to be regarded as incumbent upon the Miller Board to provide for the whole of Prof. Page's salary. This Board adheres to the views heretofore expressed that Prof. Page is entitled to receive from the Board of Visitors like compensation with other Professors and that the Miller Board will contribute only such sum as it deems proper, to aid the Board of Visitors in paying such salary.

Resolved, That the Miller Board be requested to appoint a special committee to confer with the committee appointed by the Board of Visitors to consider and report upon the relative rights and powers of the two Boards over the income arising from the Miller endowment.

Ordered-

1\. That the present arrangement made Sept. 15th 1875 by which an adjunct Professor of Mathematics takes the place of the Professor of Applied Mathematics & Civil Engineering be continued until otherwise ordered.

2\. That the appointment of Professor Wm. M. Thornton as Adjunct Professor of Mathematics is hereby renewed.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read was ordered to be received and adopted.

The standing Committee on Apparatus report that they have not made a personal examination of the Apparatus of the School of General and Applied Chemistry, They however make the following extract from Prof. Mallet's report to the Miller Board.

"The Apparatus and collections of the School are in good and efficient condition with the exception of an air pump formerly reported as found in the Laboratory broken, and one Torsin Electromiter by giving way of cement on collar during warm weather. Prof. Smith reports the Apparatus in his school in a fair state of efficiency and that no material additions thereto have been made during the past summer. It is greatly to be regretted that the finances do not admit very desirable additions to the Apparatus in Light Heat & Electricity.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the Rector & Messrs Conrad, Hart, Marye & Randolph.

Resolved, that the Board regret to be unable to grant the request of Mr. Wertenbaker for an extra allowance of $100 for his services during the past year, in view of the very strqitened financial condition of the University, and the uncertain operation of the recent changes as to its yearly income.

Ordered, that the Secretary address a note to Rev. Charles H. Ryland of Richmond explaining that in view of all the circumstances of the case and particularly in view of the fact that this Board has prescribed conditions of admission of Virginia Students under the late Act of Legislature which it hopes will be satisfactory to all, the Board declines to send representatives of the University to the proposed Convention of Colleges in the City of Richmond in connection with the next meeting of the Educational Association of Va.

Ordered, the Trustees having appropriated three hundred and Eighty Dollars to the deficit in Dr. Page's salary the Proctor is directed to pay the balance of ninety-five dollars out of the Contingent fund.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on the 26th day of June next.

As chairman of the Executive Committee I have the honor to make the following report.

The Committee met Professor Ward at the University May 12th who stated that he was ready to enter into a contract to furnish the Cabinet; the donation for which was accepted by you at your last meeting. The Committee of the Faculty appointed by the Board was requested to confer with Mr. Ward and furnish us the outline of the contents of such a Cabinet as he was willing to furnish and such as in their opinion we were entitled to receive for the sum donated. Their report having been approved a contract which is transmitted herewith was drawn and signed-Deeming it desirable both to ensure the safety of bonds donated and to have them in a position to be readily converted into money the Chairman was requested to communicate with Riggs & Co. Bankers, Washington, D. C. and ascertain if it would not be best to make that house the depository and principal Agents of the fund.

At a subsequent meeting they were made the principal Agents and the bonds sent to them. The Committee thinking that it would be wise to avail themselves of Prof. Ward's experience and knowledge of such buildings requested him to have drawn under his supervision such a plan for the Museum Building as he would advise selecting a Rochester Architect if there was one in whom he had confidence and directing him not to exceed the sum specified in the donation.

To save time and avail ourselves of this building season-the Proctor was directed to proceed to make the brick and prepare to furnish lime and sand as rapidly as it should be needed He has now one hundred and fifty thousand brick in his yard ready for the fires. On the 25th of May the Committee met Prof. Ward to examine elevation and ground plans of the Museum Building as furnished by the Architect, Mr. J. P. Thomas.

The plans having been approved and Mr. Wards bargain with Mr. Thomas, namely, two per cent on cost of building and seventy five dollars for visit to this place having been sanctioned he was requested to direct Mr. Thomas to prepare specifications, working, drawings &c and as soon as practicable to forward them and be present in person when bids were opened. His presence was deemed necessary as it was feared that his design could not be completed for the money donated and he alone could properly revise it. To prevent loss of time eight or nine of the most reliable contractors in the state were written to and requested to be prepared to bid on the work.

June 9th Mr. Thomas being present the bids from some seven or eight firms were opened and were found to exceed the sum donated by varying amounts all exceeding it by several thousand dollars.

The plan was returned to Mr. Thomas, Architect, and he was requested to thoroughly inform himself as to the itemized prices of building in this part of the country and revise his plan so as to bring it within the sum donated for the purpose. To save time the Proctor was directed to proceed to have the foundation excavated. On consultation with the Architect the majority of the Committee selected a point between the Washington Hall and the Staunton Turnpike, near the latter, as the site for the building.

Dr. Mallet, Prof. of Chemistry submitted a proposition that was made him by the authorities of the Hopkins University that he should deliver twenty lectures under their auspicies in the City of Baltimore. The Committee having perfect confidence in Prof. Mallet's conscientious discharge of every duty to his class and the University left it to him to decide whether it would be detrimental to his class if not we would assent to his absence.

It having been ascertained that it was necessary for the Board to take further action to legalize the transfer of bonds donated, the Committee urge immediate action as the money will now be made at once.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday and in addition Hon. John Goode Jr. who was commissioned as a Visitor of the University by his Excellency Gov. James L. Kemper, Governor of Va.

On motion the Board proceeded with the reading and consideration of the Report of the Faculty resulting in the following resolutions:

Resolved, That that part of the report of the Faculty in regard to arrangements for messing be referred to a special Committee of three.

The Rector appointed on this Committee Messrs Hart, Gilmore and Goode.

Resolved, that the proposition of the Society to build a Hall on University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That the petition of G. B. Hazelhurst be granted with the condition endorsed therein and recommended by the Faculty and with such other & further conditons as the Faculty may deem proper to be imposed.

Resolved, That the letter of proposal of N. Francis Cabell Esq. in respect to the originals of the correspondence of Jefferson & Cabell be referred to the Library Committee.

Resolved, That so much of the report of the Faculty as has reference to the defective sewage of the University grounds be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as relates to the kind and extent of examinations of Va. students required under the recent Act of the General Assembly providing for free tuition be referred to a Committee of three who will consider and make Report to this Board as to the mode of carrying that Act into operation.

Committee under the foregoing resolution: Messrs. Conrad, Whitehead & Goode.

Resolved, That so much of the Report of the Faculty as refers to the Agricultural Department be referred to the Committee in regard to the Miller Fund.

Resolved, That a standing Committee of three be appointed to be called a Committee on the "Miller Fund" with instructions to take into consideration the relative rights of the two Boards, and report.

Committee appointed under the foregoing resolution—Messrs. Conrad, Goode & Gilmore.

Resolved, That so much of the reports of the Faculty as relates to the compensation of Professors be referred to the Finance Committee.

Resolved, that so much of the report of the Faculty as relates to the portrait of the late Genl. J. E. B. Stuart recently sent to the University by Mr. Elden the Artist as a gift by Mr. W. A. Stuart be referred to John L. Marye, Esq. with directions to prepare a letter to be addressed to that gentleman expressing the thanks of this Board.

Resolved, That the Board a prove the order of the Board of Visitors made June 27th 1872 (found in its minutes page 340, page 303 typed copy) requiring that all appropriations both regular and special should be made specific and in detail and that appropriations thus prescribed be not transcended as to the limits, nor diverted from the objects prescribed to other objects. And that the Proctor shew in his annual accounts the respective amounts which were appropriated for each object, and how much has been disbursed under each head. And this Board declares that the said order shall continue in force, until specifically modified.

But it is not intended, that this resolution shall restrict the discretionary authority of the Executive Committee when the latter shall see cause to allow in express terms a departure from the prescription of the order.

The Board having considered the proposition made by N. Francis Cabell, Esq. to sell to the University the original MSS of the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and Joseph C. Cabell in reference to the establishment of the University, regret to feel compelled to decline the offer because of the very limited pecuniary means of the Institution- and the Chairman of the Faculty is requested to communicate this conclusion of the Board to Mr. Cabell.

On motion the Board adjourned till tomorrow morning at 9 Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr. Marye.

The Committee to whom was referred the subject of the organization of Messes among the students - submitted the following report which upon being read and considered on motion the same was adopted and ordered to be spread upon the Minutes:

The Committee to whom was referred that part of the Report of the Faculty on the organization of Messes among the students of the University of Va.

Report-

That in their judgment it is very important that suitable provision be made for the most efficient working of the Messing system in the University. They therefore recommend the adoption of the following order.

Ordered-

1\. That the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized and instructed to make such arrangements as shall best carry out this design and that he is requested to make to this Board at its next annual meeting a full report of result.

2\. That a sum to be fixed by the Executive Committee be approrpiated to be used so far as may be needful in the execution of this order which sum or any part thereof shall be paid on the order of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Interest on the loan for cases &c for Natural History

$ 800.00

To Experimental Farm

1000.00

To Prof. Page's salary

2000.00

To Prof. Mallet's salary

400.00

To Prof. Thornton's salary

225.00

To Prof. Page for publication of report on the cultivation of corn & wheat crops

75.00

Total

$4500.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

Prof. James F. Harrison was elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, by unanimous vote.

Ordered- That in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of date October 5th 1875 student J. B. Preston is excused from attendance on the Lectures in the School of History &c and that in attaining to the degree of M. A. he is allowed substitute Political Economy for History.

Resolved

1\. That this Board, in accepting the resignation of Prof. B. L. Gildersleeve, desires to put on record the statement of its high appreciation of the solid and brilliant services which during his residence at the University, he has rendered to the cause of Greek Scholarship in general, and in particular to the reputation of the University in its Greek department,=And that the Board can only wish for Prof. Gildersleeve in his future care a success commensurate with his merits.

2\. That the Secretary furnish Prof. Gildersleeve a copy of this resolution.

The Committee on the Miller Fund submitted the following as its report which was received & adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

The Committee on the Miller Fund report that after some delay, occasioned by the want of a quorum of the Miller Board. They were invited by the Miller Board to a conference on the subject of the relative power of the two Boards over the distribution of the endowment fund. And upon an interchange of views, it was finally considered by the Miller Board, in view of the absence of several of its members that no definitive action could be taken by them at this time, Upon the subject- but that the usual appropriation would be made by them for the ensuing year, and that such action as might be found necessary in regard to determining the rights and powers of the two Boards be deferred for the present.

The appropriations made by the Miller Board for the ensuing year are herewith returned marked (A).

They recommend that Dr. John R. Page be authorized to return in the name of this Board, to the donors of such articles as may be contributed for the use of his school an appropriate expression of thanks.

The following appropriations were made for the year 1876-7 by the Miller Board. viz

Resolved that the unexpended balance of $380.09 of the appropriation for the session of 1875-6 now in the hands of the Proctor be applied to the salary of Prof. Page for the session of 1875-6; but this appropriation is made with the distinct declaration of this Board that it is not to be regarded as incumbent upon the Miller Board to provide for the whole of Prof. Page's salary. This Board adheres to the views heretofore expressed that Prof. Page is entitled to receive from the Board of Visitors like compensation with other Professors and that the Miller Board will contribute only such sum as it deems proper, to aid the Board of Visitors in paying such salary.

Resolved, That the Miller Board be requested to appoint a special committee to confer with the committee appointed by the Board of Visitors to consider and report upon the relative rights and powers of the two Boards over the income arising from the Miller endowment.

Ordered-

1\. That the present arrangement made Sept. 15th 1875 by which an adjunct Professor of Mathematics takes the place of the Professor of Applied Mathematics & Civil Engineering be continued until otherwise ordered.

2\. That the appointment of Professor Wm. M. Thornton as Adjunct Professor of Mathematics is hereby renewed.

The Committee on Apparatus submitted the following report which upon being read was ordered to be received and adopted.

The standing Committee on Apparatus report that they have not made a personal examination of the Apparatus of the School of General and Applied Chemistry, They however make the following extract from Prof. Mallet's report to the Miller Board.

"The Apparatus and collections of the School are in good and efficient condition with the exception of an air pump formerly reported as found in the Laboratory broken, and one Torsin Electromiter by giving way of cement on collar during warm weather. Prof. Smith reports the Apparatus in his school in a fair state of efficiency and that no material additions thereto have been made during the past summer. It is greatly to be regretted that the finances do not admit very desirable additions to the Apparatus in Light Heat & Electricity.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the Rector & Messrs Conrad, Hart, Marye & Randolph.

Resolved, that the Board regret to be unable to grant the request of Mr. Wertenbaker for an extra allowance of $100 for his services during the past year, in view of the very strqitened financial condition of the University, and the uncertain operation of the recent changes as to its yearly income.

Ordered, that the Secretary address a note to Rev. Charles H. Ryland of Richmond explaining that in view of all the circumstances of the case and particularly in view of the fact that this Board has prescribed conditions of admission of Virginia Students under the late Act of Legislature which it hopes will be satisfactory to all, the Board declines to send representatives of the University to the proposed Convention of Colleges in the City of Richmond in connection with the next meeting of the Educational Association of Va.

Ordered, the Trustees having appropriated three hundred and Eighty Dollars to the deficit in Dr. Page's salary the Proctor is directed to pay the balance of ninety-five dollars out of the Contingent fund.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on the 26th day of June next.
