---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1882'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1882) May 4, 1882
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 4, 1882

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

"Received at Univ. of Va."

"1882"

"Dated Richmond Va."

"To Capt. F. L. Blair c/o Dr. Harrison"

His Excellency, William E. Cameron, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, having by a joint Commission, dated April 18th 1882, commissioned Genl Wyatt M. Elliott, Hon. John Paul, Dr. W. R. Vaughan, Hon. T. T. Fauntleroy, Hon. F. L. Blair, Col. G. W. Hansborough, Major E. S. Ruggles, W. Roane Ruffin Esqr and Col William Lamb, as Visitors of the University, in pursuance of a call of three of their number, to wit, Messrs. Elliott, Vaughan & Blair, a meeting was held at the University this 4th day of May 1882.

Present- Messrs Paul, Vaughan, Fauntleroy, Blair, Hansborough, Ruffin and Lamb. (absent Messrs Elliott & Ruggles. )

Before the meeting was called to order, Capt. John S. Wise who had just arrived, appeared in the meeting and presented a telegram which was read to the meeting and is as follows:

"Dr. Vaughan has resigned as Visitor and the Governor directs me thus to notify the Board of the appointment of John S. Wise to the vacancy- (signed) W. C. Elam, Secty of the "Commonwealth". Thereupon Capt. John S. Wise took his seat as one of the Visitors in place of Dr. Vaughan, resigned.

On motion Col William Lamb was chosen Rector pro tem. and James D. Jones as Secretary pro tem.

The secretary was requested to notify Dr. Harrison, Chairman of the Faculty that the Board were ready to receive any communications from him and to invite him to appear and present the same.

The Chairman was so notified and returned with Secretary and laid before the Board, the following communications, viz:

1\. Report of the Faculty of this date.

2\. Letter from Prof. Fontaine of same date, in reference to his department.

3\. Letter from Prof. Price notifying the Board of his purpose to hand in his formal resignation at the annual meeting in June next as Prof. of Greek & Hebrew.

All of which were received and read. Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty be instructed to advertise, extensively, that the Board of Visitors will proceed, on the 26th day of June, at the University of Va. to elect a Professor to fill the chair of Greek and Hebrew to be made vacant by the resignation of Prof. Thos. R. Price and that for this and other advertising the sum of $1500 is hereby authorized to be expended in the discretion of the Faculty.

On motion Genl Wyatt M. Elliott was elected Rector, by a unanimous vote.

The Committee of the Faculty, on the Observatory, heretofore appointed consisting of Profs. Smith, Venable, Mallet and Thornton having conferred with the Board and reported that after due enquiry and conference with Mr. McCormick they were satisfied of the qualifications & competency of Prof.     Stone of Cincinnati & that his election to the Professorship of Practical Astronomy will be agreeable to Mr. McCormick.

Resolved,

That the Committee be and they are hereby authorized to open negotiations with Professor Stone with the view of securing his services forthwith; that they be authorized to pledge the Board to his election at its next meeting; and that the Executive Committee be empowered to employ him to take charge of the erection of the Observatory and discharge his other duties, in the meanwhile.

Whereas the Board of Visitors are impressed with the importance of the creation of a Chair of English in the University-therefore, Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed by the Board to consider the expediency of establishing such a Chair and the best mode of raising the means to support said Chair, and to report to the next meeting of the Board.

The Rector appointed as the Committee under the foregoing resolution Messrs Hansborough, Paul & Blair.

Resolved, that at the meeting of the Board to be held on the 26th of June 1882 the Board will elect a Proctor and other subordinate officers and employees whose appointment is to be made by the Board, and that the Secretary classify and file such applications as may be forwarded to the Board or sent to the Secretary by any member of the Board.

The Rector, and Messrs Lamb and Wise were elected as the Executive Committee of the Board.

Whereas a communication has been received from Prof. Wm. M.Fontaine in regard to his operations in the field therefore the Board approve of the suggestions therein in contained.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet on the 26th day of June next at 12 M.
