---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1885'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
At a meeting of the Board of Visitors, Thursday, January 15, 1885

Present at 1 O.C. P.M:

W. Roane Ruffin, Rector; and Messrs Bell, Hansbrough, Barbee, Taylor and Burks

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. Present at 6 O.C. P.M.

The above named members, Capt Blair, and Genl V.D. Groner, the latter of whom takes the place of Colo Lamb (resigned) by appointment of the Governor.

On motion of Genl Groner, Resolved that the certificate of his qualification as a Visitor of the University and also his commission as such Visitor be received and filed with the records of this Board.

The Rector announced that the election of a Professor of General and Industrial Chemistry was now in order: whereupon, Capt Blair nominated Dr John W. Mallet; and the vote being called, all the Visitors voted aye, except Colo Hansbrough, who voted no. Dr Mallet is, therefore, declared to be Professor of General and Industrial Chemistry from the first day of October, 1885

After the claims and credentials of all the candidates for the vacant Law-Chair in the University were considered and canvassed, the vote was taken by ballot and resulted in the election of James H. Gilmore, Esquird; whereupon, on motion, the election was made unanimous; and James H. Gilmore is hereby declared to be the Professor of Constitutional and International Law, Equity, and the Law Merchant, with a salary of $3000 to begin the day he enters upon the discharge of his duties.

Colo Barbee presented the application of Hon A.C. Gordon for the vacant professorship in Law accompanied with a large number of testimonials of the highest character, and had the same placed on file, subject to Mr Gordon's order.

The subject of Wm L. Maupin's letter, addressed to Capt Blair, is referred to the Finance Committee.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

W. Roane Ruffin

Friday, January 16, 1885

Present: The Rector, and Messrs Hansbrough, Bell, Burks, Barbee and Taylor.

The minutes of the transactions of the Executive Committee since the last meeting of the Board were read, approved and adopted.

Resolved that the Articles of Agreement between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Town of Charlottesville made under authority of the Act of the General Assembly of Virginia, approved March 19, 1884, to construct, jointly, water works, with the Reservoir upon the lands of Henry N. Carey and others, and pipes leading therefrom to the University and to and along certain streets of said Town according to the plan of Ernest W. Bowditch, as submitted by the Executive Committee be approved and adopted, subject to the amendments and additions thereto as indicated in the memorandum made by Prof Minor and filed herewith; and that said contract be re-drafted so as to incorporate said modifications therein, and that said contract be executed as so re-drafted.

2\. Resolved that when the said contract shall have been so executed, the Executive Committee jointly with the Town of Charlottesville shall have authority to let to contract to competent and reliable parties the construction of said Water Works according to the specifications of the plan of the said Ernest W. Bowditch; and to require the contractor or contractors to execute bond or bonds in suitable penalties and with approved security, conditioned for the faithful performance of said contract or contracts in a skillful and effective manner, according to the spirit thereof and to indemnify the University against all personal liability as well as against all liens on its property which may arise, or be acquired under the law by sub-contractors, suppliers of materials, or workmen, and further to provide for forfeitures in case of default by the contractor or contractors.

Resolved that the order entered by this Board on the 6th day of September, 1882, respecting the payment of professors' salaries be and the same is hereby repealed; and that the payment of the professors' salaries, and their communtation for rent, shall hereafter be made in monthly instalments by the proctor on the last day of each month during the session.

Jesse L. Maury's proposition to buy 33 acres of the University's land at $10 an acre is referred to the Committee on Grounds and Buildings.

The Faculty is authorized to order such ceremonies on the formal opening of the Leander McCormick Observatory as to the Faculty may seem appropriate, and the day suggested for these ceremonies by the Committee in charge of the matter, to wit; Jefferson's birth day is hereby approved.

Prof Fontaine is authorized to expend the sum of $150 earned by him from the U.S. Geological Survey last session in fixing up cases to hold the minerals and fossils which belong to his Department; and he will make report to this Board how he has spent said sum. He may also let Mr. Seamon, teacher of Natural Science in the Miller School, have such specimens of the minerals and rocks as he, Mr Fontaine, may pick out.

The Proctor will pay "Standard Office" the sum of $5 for printing 500 circulars for the University on the order of Genl Ruggles.

The Office of special agent to solicit contributions to the University is hereby abolished.

Prof Garnett is granted 2 weeks leave of absence.

The subject of enlarging and repairing the University grave-yard is referred to the Committee on Grounds and Buildings.

Adjourned

W. Roane Ruffin

Following is the Contact between the University and the town of Charlottesville in regard to the Water Works.

"Whereas, the University of Virginia and the town of Charlottesville propose, under the authority of the Act of the General Assembly of Virginia, approved March 19, 1884, to construct, jointly, Water-Works, with a Reservoir upon the lands of Henry N. Cary and others, and pipes leading therefrom to the University and to and along certain streets of said town according to the plan already submitted by Ernest W. Bowditch, their Engineer: Now, therefore, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the town of Charlottesville, agree as follows:

1\. Assuming the work to cost, for everything, Ninety Thousand Dollars, then the University (which as used in this contract means the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia) is to pay fifteen thousand, eight hundred dollars ($15,800) and the Town the residue, seventy-four thousand, two hundred dollars ($74,200); and if the cost should prove to be more or less than $90,000, then the same to be borne by the University in the ratio of fifteen thousand, eight hundred dollars ($15,800) to seventy-four thousand, two hundred dollars ($74,200)

2\. The University to give, for said works, the right of way through its lands, and the right of entry to said Town for purposes of repair of the Works.

3\. The University to pay one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) a year to the Town so long as the Town elects to keep, and does keep, in order the Reservoir and Main Pipe from the gate-house to a point on the Staunton road opposite the Brooks Museum; but if the Town should not make the necessary repairs to the same, the University shall have authority to make the same after ten days' notice to the Town through its Mayor, and to retain from said one hundred and fifty dollars so much as said repairs shall have cost the University.

4\. Any unforseen and unestimated damages to third persons after completion of the work (according to the plan adopted) shall be borne by the University and the Town, the University to pay one-seventh (1/7) and the Town six-sevenths (6/7)

5\. The University to have the free and exclusive use of so much of the water as is drawn from the main pipe from the Reservoir into its own pipes so as to supply all the grounds which are now, or may hereafter become, its property as far as to the present track of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; and the town of Charlottesville is to have the free and exclusive use of the water from a point opposite the Brooks Museum eastward with the free and unrestricted right to dispose of the same as it pleases, except as to the grounds of the University as aforesaid. But neither part shall so use the water as to prevent its free and proper enjoyment by the other.

6\. The Engineer to take charge of the construction and completion of said works shall be elected by the University and the Town; and they shall also concurrently agree upon the contractor or contractors and the terms of his or their contracts.

7\. This contract must be regarded as conditional upon the Town's ability to raise upon its bonds an amount sufficient to enable it to comply with it, of which the Town must be the sole judge. But the Town's ability must be determined by it within four months from the date of this contract unless the University elects to give further time; and as soon as the Town determines it shall make known its determination to the University.

8\. The interest of the Town and the University in the Water-Works aforesaid shall be in proportion to the amounts contributed by them, respectively, to their construction.

9\. The University shall finish paying the whole of the amount to be contributed by it to the construction of the Water-Works as nearly as it can be ascertained, within two months after the time the works are sufficiently constructed to supply the University with water.

10\. By the aforesaid plan of E. W. Bowditch the main pipe from the Reservoir strikes the Staunton road to Charlottesville at a point opposite Carr's Hill, from which point the Town shall also have the free and exclusive use and disposition of the water, always excepting the grounds which are now, or may hereafter become, the property of the University, so that the same shall not extend eastward beyond the present track of the Chesapeake and Ohio RailRoad - the intent being that all grounds of the University shall be entitled to a water-supply as set down in Article five (5) hereof. The works aforesaid are to include the proper connexions, not exceeding two, with the University mains, and the establishing at least two fire plugs: the whole cost of the connexions and the plugs not to exceed one hundred dollars. In case new buildings shall be erected by the University at any time in the future on its grounds, the right is hereby reserved to connect at any time with the main pipe from the Reservoir in addition to the two connexions above authorized, the expense of the same being borne exclusively by the University.

11\. This contract is made by the University under authority given by its Rector and Board of Visitors on the 16" day of January, 1885, as is shewn by the record kept by them of their proceedings; and said contract is made by the Town under authority given by its Council on the 20th day of January, 1885, as appears by the record kept by it of its proceedings. A tracing of the route through a part of the University Grounds of the main pipe as made by E.W. Bowditch, Esquire, is affixed hereto as a part of this contract.

In testimony of all which, William Roane Seal of the University Ruffin, Rector of the University of Virginia, and Randolph F. Harris, Mayor of the Town of Charlottesville, have signed their names to this agreement, and by the Seal of Charlottesville authority aforesaid have affixed thereto the seals of their respective corporations this 20th day of January, 1885.

Seal of the University

Seal of Charlottesville

Executed in duplicate.
