---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1885'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Estimated ReceiptsProvisional Appropriations
--------------------------------------------

Farm including Superintendents' salary

$1000

Professor of Agriculture, Zoology and Botany

3000

Professor of Agriculture, Chemistry etc.

1300

Signal Service Instruments

100

Fan $45, Printing $55

100

Two Scholarships $250, each

500

$6000

Salaries of 19 professors at $3000 each

$57,000

Salary of one assistant in Latin and Greek

,800

Salary of one assistant in Math and Nat Phil

,800

Salary of one assistant in Modern Languages

,600

Carried forward

$59,200

Brot foward

$59,200

Salary of an assistant in Applied Mathematics, in case there be 25 students, or more

300

Salary of the Demonstrator of Anatomy

800

Salaries of Officers. Chairman of the Faculty

500

Proctor and Superintendent

1600

Librarian and Secretary

1000

Commissioner of Accounts

150

Janitor

600

Observatory ( current expenses)

1780

Infirmary (current expenses)

2100

Commutation of rent to 5 professors

1500

Repairs and Improvements

4500

Agricultural Department, Signal Service Instruments

100

Expenses of farm, including the managers salary

1000

Additional expenses, not to exceed sales, say

130

Fan $45 - Printing $55

100

Two scholarships, $250, each

500

Apparatus for Natural Philosophy

200

Chemical Department

200

Natural History etc

100

Applied Mathematics

50

Library - Madison bequest, interest

78

Douglas Gordon bequest, interest

300

Advertising

550

Printing

150

Catalogues

300

Diplomas

400

Carried forward

$78,188

Brot forward

$78,188

Messenger to the Chairman

180

Janitor to the Museum

180

Labor

1,500

Fuel and Gas

946

Insurance

554

Interest on debt

6,050

Sinking fund

1,000

Contingent Expenses

1,200

$89,798

State Annuity

40,000

Matriculation and Library fees of 300 students

6,000

Infirmary fees

2,100

Tuition fees

17,500

Diploma fees

1,400

Rent of 2 hotels

500

Rent of dormitories

4,590

Interest on $102,600 of State bonds at 6 p.ct.

6,156

Interest on Observatory bonds

4,780

Interest on Douglas Gordon fund

300

Interest on Deposits

1,400

Miller Fund

6,000

Profits on Coal

500

Sales of produce from Miller farm

130

Total

$90,506

Expenditures

89,798

Balance

$ 808

For Committee on the external interests of the University

$500

Road to Observatory Mountain

100

Apparatus in School of Chemistry

100

Apparatus in School of Natural Philosophy

100

Library

500

$1300

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors, Monday, June 29, 1885.

Present: Colo Wm Roane Ruffin, Rector; and Messrs Bell, Blair, Barbee, Taylor, and Colo William Byrd, who takes the place of Genl Ruggles, by Commission of the Governor.

The minutes of the last meeting of the Board, as well as the minutes of the Executive Committee, were read and approved.

Following is the list of the Standing Committees:

Executive Committee; Ruffin, Bell, Barbee

Finance Committee: Ruffin, Barbee, Burks

Grounds and Buildings: Barbee, Bell, Blair

Health, Sewerage and Drainage: Groner, Taylor, Hansbrough

Boarding-Houses: Bell, Taylor and Byrd

Miller Fund: Byrd, Bell, Groner

Library: Bell, Taylor, Byrd

Apparatus: Groner, Byrd, Hansbrough

Conduct of Schools: Hansbrough, Burks, Taylor

Examination of Students: Burks, Taylor, Blair

The Chairman's Report was received, and is as follows: "University of Va, June 29", 1885. To the Rector and Board of Visitors, University of Va, Gentlemen: I transmit herewith                 the reports, as follows, viz:

1\. Faculty Reports, with

2\. Schedule of Repairs

3\. Report of Committee on Repairs, etc.

4\. Report of the Proctor

5\. Report of Prof Page, with Inventory of Property of the Experimental Farm and School of Agriculture

6\. Report of the Librarian

7\. Report of Prof Stone

8\. Report of Prof Smith

9\. Report of Prof Thornton

10\. Report of Prof Dunnington

11\. Application of Prof Gilmore

12\. Two letters of Prof Garnett

13\. Notes of Work by Students

14\. Resolutions of the Faculty respecting the B.A. degree

15\. Resolutions of the Faculty respecting Blacksmith's shop; and in relation to signing Degree diplomas.

16\. Drawings of Students in the School of Applied Mathematics

I have great pleasure in stating that the health of the students has been good during the session, there having been three or four cases of severe sickness, all of which recovered: that good order and hard studying have characterized the session; and that discipline, under the laws, has been applied in a comparatively small number of instances, and with good effect generally -

I am, with great respect, James F. Harrison, M.D.

Chairman of the Faculty."

On motion of Colo G. T. Barbee, the following resolution was unannmously adopted:

Resolved that, whereas it has been communicated to this Board that Dr John Staige Davis, who, for nearly forty years, has been so pleasantly and efficiently associated with the labors of the Faculty of the University of Virginia, is now confined to his room and bed by serious and painful bodily afflication, Attorney-General, Francis S. Blair, a gifted and honored member of this Board, be requested to draft Resolution, expressive of the profound sorrow of this Board at the sad visitation which has befallen Dr Davis and his stricken household; and that a copy of said resolutions shall be spread upon the minutes of this Board; and that our Secretary be requested to furnish a Copy of the same to the sorrowing family of our esteemed Professor.

Whereupon, the Hon Francis S. Blair submitted the following preamble and resolution, which were unanimously adopted:

"The Board of Visitors, having this day received through Dr James L. Cabell, his medical attendant, written information of the severe illness of Dr John Staige Davis, Professor of Anatomy, and requesting for him a leave of absence for the ensuing session, 1885-6, for the purpose of a recuperation of his health, with the proposition that Dr David provide a suitable and competent substitute, during the specified time: And the Board having considered the said application, and the present condition of Dr Davis, deem it but due to him to say that, inasmuch as during a period of nearly forty years, he has served the University with fidelity and ability, and by his discipline and learning has thus, not only given a most valuable contribution to its success, fame and efficiency, but has adorned with splendid genius the Chair he has so honorably filled, they take pleasure in acceding to the request for said leave of absence; and, in doing so, they beg leave to express their earnest wish that rest and medical treatment may restore him to his usual physical and mental strength, and that he may be thus returned to his former sphere of usefulness for the accomplishment of further educational good.

Without intended obtrusion on the sacred grief of the household of DrDavis, we deem it not unfit, hereby, to express our sincere sorrow at his present sad affliction, and to testify our profound sympathy for them in this, their hour of domestic suffering

To estimate the benefactions bestowed on mankind by Dr Davis, during his long and professional services, it is only necessary to consider the multitude of young men who have gone forth from his lecture room into the field of the world to sow those choice seeds of learning that under the inspiration of his wise instructions have ripened into a full fruition of most valuable citizenship and deserving manhood; and whether it shall please Almighty God, in his infinite mercy, to restore him to health, or in his providence to terminate his career on earth, it will be to his family and friends a source of affectionate satisfaction that his career has been rounded off by the virtues of a well spent life, and that he has deserved well of his fellow men.

Therefore be it resolved that Dr John Staige Davis, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Virginia, be granted a leave of absence during the ensuing session, 1885-86, with the proviso, as proposed by himself, that he procure Dr William B. Towles, or some other suitable and competent substitute substitute during his said absence.

The Faculty and other Reports, named in the Chairman's Report, were referred to the appropriate Committees for report on the same.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

W. Roane Ruffin

Tuesday, June 30, 1885.

Resolved that, any existing order to the contrary of the Visitors being rescinded, the diploma of Bachelor of Arts be signed only by the Professors concerned in conferring the degree. The diploma of Master of Arts to be signed, as heretofore, by all the Professors of the University.

Resolved that the Chair of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry be separated from that of General and Industrial Chemistry and Pharmacy

James W. Kern having been nominated by the Professors of Greek and Latin respectively, he is hereby appointed Intructor in those two schools at a Salary of $800.

Resolved that William L. Maupin ceased to be Bursar on the 1st of July, 1884, as appears by the record: that his salary ceased to run from that day; and that his application for more pay is therefore rejected.

Resolved that the Proctor pay Jefferson R. Taylor $80, the amount of his bill against the University for investigating the accounts of the former proctor, Majr Green Peyton.

Resolved that the Professor of Mathematics applied to Engineering shall receive the same salary with the other professors, to wit: the sum of $3000.

Resolved that the request of Prof Gilmore to be allowed to argue causes in the Supreme Court of Appeals during the vacation of the University be granted.

T. W. Elsom is elected boarding-house keeper of House A. on giving bond with security in the penalty of $3000.

The resignation of Jefferson R. Taylor, as commissioner of accounts, is hereby accepted; and his petition for additional compensation refused.

Francis P. Dunnington, B.S., having been nominated by the Miller Board of Trustees, is declared by this Board to be professor of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Wednesday, July 1, 1885

Resolved that, hereafter, every student lodging elsewhere, without regard to the place of his residence, shall deposit in advance $15 as an indemnity for rent; and at the close of the session the amount due for unoccupied dormitories shall be estimated and divided equally among the students lodging elsewhere as a charge to each - the remainder, if any, being credited in the final settlement; provided, said charge for indemnity shall in no case exceed $15. But this requirement does not apply to the session of 1884-85, just ended.

Resolved that the eleven University Scholarships now granted on competitive examinations to students matriculating in the University for the first time, be redistributed among the departments as follows, viz: in the Academic department five, and in the Engineering department two; omitting altogether the four embraced in the Medical and Law departments.

Resolved that the matter of renting hotel B., now rented to Mrs Treiber be referred to the Executive Committee, which committee is endowed with the power to rent the said hotel to Mrs. Treiber, or some one else, as soon as they think expedient

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

W. Roane Ruffin

Thursday, July 2, 1885

Resolved that hereafter it shall be lawful to receive as candidates for the degrees of Doctor of Letters, Doctor of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy, students from other Colleges who have attained the preliminary degrees now required, or other degrees which the Faculty may deem equivalent as well at other chartered Institutions of Learning as at this University: Provided, however, that graduation here shall be required in all cases in the Schools in which it is proposed to pursue graduate courses.

Resolved that the Faculty be empowered to modify, in its discretion, all fines and charges for not returning books to the Library in due time, so that the aggregate of said fines and charges for failure to return any book, shall in no case be less than one and a half times the sum required to replace the said book or books, in respect to which the default may occur. But this resolution shall not be so construed as to alter or affect the obligation to replace works that have been damaged or lost, or which are not returned.

Resolved that the Library be kept open, during the session, six hours a day, every day, except Sundays and holidays. The time to be fixed by the Faculty.

Resolved that the sons of professors at the University stand on the same footing with all other Virginia students; that is to say they are entitled to free tuition in the Academic Schools only.

Resolved that a course of lectures and field-work in Engineering Geodesy by Prof Thornton be opened to all students of the University who may choose to pay a fee of $15 therefor.

Resolved that a Decennial Catalogue of the University may be prepared by a committee of the Faculty, and published out of any funds in the treasury not otherwise appropriated. But the cost of the same as well as for additional copies of "The Sketch of the University" and all attendant charges shall not exceed $500.

Resolved that no expenditure of money relating to the Observatory shall be chargeable to the general funds of the University, save and except in making improvements upon the road leading to the said Observatory, whereby the same may be made more easily accessible to the general visitor; and with a view to making such improvements upon the said road a sum of money not exceeding $100 is hereby appropriated for that purpose: Provided, however, that the same is to be paid out of any surplus in the treasury, next session, not otherwise appropriated.

On motion of Colo Barbee, Resolved that, in order to meet the contingencies contemplated by the authority given to the Faculty by this Board on the 16th of January, 1885, in relation to the ceremonies attending the formal opening of the McCormick Observatory, the sum of $39.40 is nereby appropriated to pay the expenses of said ceremonies: Provided that the same be paid only out of any surplus in the treasury, next session, not otherwise appropriated.

1\. Resolved that the four existing scholarships, known as the Miller Scholarships, be and the same are hereby abolished.

2\. Resolved that, tin honor of the late Samuel Miller, the founder of our Agricultural Department, there be established in this University four Agricultural Scholarships to be called, "The Miller Agricultural Scholarships".

3\. Resolved that the Scholarships, hereby created, shall be bestowed upon a competitive examination ofthe same character as those heretofore held for the scholarships hereby abolished.

4\. Resolved that $500 of the money turned over to this University by the trustees of the Miller Fund shall be held by the Proctor to be disbursed equally between the two students standing highest in the said competitive examination for the said Miller Agricultural Scholarships; but the said $500 shall be expended exclusively by the beneficaries thereof, respectively, in pursuing studies at this University in the Agricultural Department, embracing the following schools, to wit: Junior Physics, General Chemistry, Zoology, Agricultural Botany and Agriculture, and Mineralogy and Geology: Scientific and Practical Agriculture, Agricultural and Industrial Chemistry, First Class of Analytical Chemistry, and Agricultural Engineering, But the Proctor shall only disburse the said funds to the beneficiaries thereof, respectively, upon their written order, from time to time, in such sums as shall meet their proper Collegiate expenses as the same shall accrue; paying, however, to them at the end of the year the balance of their shares, respectively, of the said $500 then due. The said beneficiaries of the $500 shall not be admitted to any other Schools in the University than the Schools in the Agricultural Department.

5\. Resolved that the two remaining scholarships created by these resolutions shall carry free matriculation and free tuition in the said Agricultural Department embracing the schools above enumerated.

Resolved that one of the Miller Agricultural Scholarships for the session, 1885-86, shall be bestowed on a student from the Miller Manual School, provided he shall pass a satisfactory examination therefor without regard to the principle of competition; and so much of the resolutions, heretofore passed, reestablishing said Scholarships, as conflicts with this resolution, is hereby repealed. Resolved that such Works on Chemistry as the Professors of Chemistry may select, subject to the approval of the Library Committee, shall be transferred from the Library to the Laboratory upon giving their receipt to the Librarian for the same.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

W. Roane Ruffin

Friday, July 3, 1885

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to expend the $6000, derived from the Miller Fund, in the Agricultural Department, as follows:

Resolved that, hereafter, the Faculty of the University, its Teachers and Instructors, shall attend in a Body the Ceremonies and proceedings of the usual annual Celebration at the University of Virginia; and that the Board of Visitors will attend said Celebration with the Faculty under the management and control of the Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved that a Club, styled "The Gymnastic Club of the University of Virginia", to consist of such students of the University as may pay the inititation fee be and is hereby established.

Resolved that said Club shall be subject to such constitution and bye-laws as may be adopted.

Resolved that the initiation fee be fixed by the Faculty at not more than $5 to be paid to the Proctor, and by him disbursed in such manner as the Faculty may direct.

Resolved that the building, now known as the Gymnasium, standing at the Southern end of the Eastern range, be set apart for the use of said Club.

Resolved that the Faculty be empowered to set apart two days during the month of November in each year for public and Competitive exercises of said Club, during which days all scholastic labors of the University may be suspended.

Resolved that a Committee of two be appointed to unite with a Committee of the Faculty in a memorial to the Legislature praying for a law which shall prohibit Bar Rooms and Billiard Rooms within ...... distance of the incorporated Institutions of Learning in this state, which are outside of any corporate town or city.

Committee: Judge Bell and Dr Taylor.

Resolved that the repairs of the buildings and the improve- of the grounds shall be done and carried on by the Proctor, subject to the Control and direction of the Executive Committee, in accordance, as far as practicable, with the recommendations of the report by the Faculty's Committee on Repairs and Improvements.

The Proctor's annual Report is received and filed; and, also, the annual Report of the Commissioner of Accounts.

A special report of the actings and doings of the former proctor, Maj: Green Peyton, by commissioner Jeff R. Taylor, is laid on the table for further consideration.

Samuel B. Woods is elected Commissioner of Accounts at a yearly salary of $150.

The Proctor will have a new floor put in dormitory, 54, now in Prof Dunnington's occupancy.

Dr Mallet may have the use of the Laboratory during vacation.

Prof John R. Page is hereby required to render annually an itemized account of the receipts and disbursements of the Experimental Farm.

Resolved that the Faculty shall have authority- after the first of March in any year - to anticipate the next annual appropriation for newspaper advertising to and extent not exceeding $400, stipulating that the bills for the same shall not be presented till after the first of July in the same year.

A Statement of Appropriations made to cover the expenditures of the University for the current fiscal year.

Adjourned.

W. Roane Ruffin
