---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1886'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Dr Archer Atkinson -

Baltimore, Md

Dr E. C. Carter -

Columbus, Ohio

Dr C. B. Nuncrede -

Phila, Pa

Dr W. B. Towles -

University of Va

Dr Edward Warren -

Paris, France

Dr Thomas K. Cruse -

Wappinger's Falls, N. Y.

Dr C. A. Bryce -

Richmond, Va

Junior Class:

1.

Zoology, lectures & Laboratory work

3 weekly Oct.-Jan'y 3 months Feb.-June

2.

Botany, lectures & Laboratory work

Senior Class.

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

3 weekly through the year

2.

School of Engineering

Class of Agricultural Engineering

a.

Agricultural Engineering

b.

Agricultural Structures

c.

Agricultural Hydraulics

d.

Agricultural Machines

I.

Introductory Course

1.

Zoology & Botany

Prof. Page

2.

Mineralogy & Geology

Prof. Fontaine

3.

General Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

4.

Junior Physics

Prof. Smith

II.

Advanced Course

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

Prof. Page

2.

Industrial Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

3.

Analytical & Agricultural Chemistry

Prof. Dunnington

4.

Agricultural Engineering

Prof. Thornton

Salaries of Instructors

19 Professors at $3000. each

$57,000.

1 Assistant in Latin & Greek

800.

1 Assistant in Math. & Natl Phil.

800.

1 Assistant in Modern Languages

600.

1 Demonstrator of Anatomy

500.

Salaries of Officers

Chairman of the Faculty

500.

Proctor, Superintendent etc

1,600.

Librarian & Secretary of the Faculty

750.

Secretary of Board of Visitors

150.

Commissioner of Accounts

100.

Janitor

600.

Current Expenses

Observatory

1,780.

Infirmary

2,000.

Farm

1,000.

Repairs & Improvements

Debt to Bowditch

1893.40

To be expended

2606.60

4,500.

Commutation of Rents

5 Professors $300. each

1,500.

Current Expenses

Interest on Debt & Sinking Fund

7,220.

Balance unpaid last year on interest on Debt & Sinking Fund

170.

Contingent Fund

(1700.)

1,700.

General advertising

550.

Annual Catalogue

250.

Printing Blanks

150.

Printing Diplomas

300.

General Labour

1,500.

Chairmans Messenger

180.

Museum Janitor

180.

Coal

550.

Gas

500.

Madison Fund Interest

156.

Gordon Fund Interest

300.

Additional Appropriation

44.

Natural Philosophy

300.

General Chemistry

300.

Natural History

150.

Applied Mathematics

50.

Fire Apparatus etc.

700.

Anatomical Fund

125.

Debt on Cemetery

230.

New Scholarships

500.

$90,285.

1st

For printing the Decennial Catalogue

400.

2nd

For purchase of Polariscope for Industrial Chemistry

250.

3d

For the equipment of School of Anatomy & Materia M.

150.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University held at the time and place above written, the following members were present:

Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector and Messrs Conrad, Martin, Payne, Randolph, Stuart (W. C.) & Venable.

The Rector called the Board to order. The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and ordered to be filed.

The resignation of Dr Jas F. Harrison as Professor, was read, together with his written request to be allowed to appear before the Board and make a statement in connection with his resignation, whereupon, it was

Resolved, that in accordance with the request of Dr J.F. Harrison, he be allowed to appear before this Board at 4 P.M. to-day to make a statement in connection with the resignation of his professorship.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as recommends, that the Finance and Executive Committee of the Board shall each consist of four members, two of whom shall constitute a quorum.

That the regular Standing Committees of the Board be rearranged and consolidated as follows, viz:

1\. Comm: Finance, Miller Board & Observatory Fund.

2\. Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses

3\. Library & Apparatus

4\. Conduct of Schools & Examination of students

5\. Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage, be adopted.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as indicates the several Committees of the Board, to which the various reports, papers and subjects therein mentioned should be referred - is adopted and the reference there suggested is ordered - and the communication of Mr. Catlett to the Chairman of the Faculty since received, is referred to the Committee on conduct of Schools.

Resolved, that the subject of old indebtedness of Students mentioned in the Report of the Executive Committee - be referred to the Committee on finance.

Dr Harrison leaving requested that instead of his appearing before the Board this evening at 4 o'clock he be allowed to appear to-morrow at the same hour. On motion Dr Harrison's request was granted.

Resolved, that the Board go into the election of Professor of Anatomy to-morrow at 10 A. M. and immediately thereafter into the election of the Proctor, Librarian, Commissioner of Accounts and any other officers to be elected.

The Annual Report of the Faculty to the Board having been submitted by the Chairman of the Faculty with papers and documents accompanying same, on motion the same was read to the Board by the Secretary, whereupon the report was referred to the several Standing Committees of the Board, the different subjects presented by the report to be considered and reported on by the appropriate Committees.

On motion the following resolution in reference to Dr Jas L. Cabell was adopted.

In view of his long and eminent services to the University of Va it is ordered by its Board of Visitors that Dr Jas L. Cabell shall henceforth be relieved of all outdoor practice upon students of the Institution whether requiring medical treatment in the Infirmary or in their rooms. Dr Cabell however is designated and shall be regarded by the other members of the Medical Faculty whose duty it will be to render general medical services to the students of the Institution as their Consulting Physician.

As the Board considers that the duties of Dr Cabell in his relation of consulting Physician and President of the Board of health will be as onerous and responsible and his services in this capacity as valuable as under the existing arrangement, it is for these reasons ordered that his proportional interest to which he is entitled as at present determined, in the Infirmary fees shall not be impaired.

Messrs A. R. Blakey and H. L. Lyman a Committee in behalf of the Albemarle Fruit & Grape Growers Association called and requested to have an interview with the Board which was accorded, and the gentlemen appeared and stated the objects of their desired interview. Whereupon it was

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors will be glad to confer with the Committee of the Albemarle Grape & Fruit growers Association and designate 4 P. M. on Wednesday as the hour. That we request that the Committee will also put their proposition in writing and that the Professor of Agriculture be requested to meet the Committee with the Board of Visitors.

The Proctor's Report (annual) to the Board was taken up, read by the Secretary to the Board & thereupon on motion it was ordered that the same be received and filed, and the various subjects treated of by the report be referred for consideration & report to the proper Committees.

The Rector designated the following as the Standing Committees under the resolution on page 27 \[23\] of this Book reconstituting the Committees, viz

Finance, Miller & Observatory Fund Comm.

Messrs Conrad, W. A. Stuart, Venable & Randolph

Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses.

Messrs W. A. Stuart, Payne & Walker

Library & Apparatus

Messrs Marye, Walker & Martin

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students

Messrs Randolph, Venable & Marye

Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage

Messrs Martin, Payne & Conrad.

The Report of the Proctor supplementary & explanatory of his principal report was read and on motion the same was ordered to be received & filed and referred along with the principal report to the appropriate Committees having charge of the subjects submitted by the said supplemental report, for their consideration & report.

On motion the Board adjourned to to-morrow at 10 A. M.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present - The Rector and the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Hon. J. L. Marye.

The first order of business being the election of a Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica, the Board proceeded with having read before it the names of the several applicants, their written applications and the testimonials accompanying the same.

The following are the names of the applicants:

Upon a vote being had Dr Wm B. Towles was unanimously elected as Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica in the University of Va.

A vote was next had for Librarian which resulted in the election of Mr James B. Baker of Abingdon, Va.

Then followed a vote for Proctor of the University which resulted in the election of Major Green Peyton, of Albemarle County, Va.

Resolved, that the resignation of Dr James F. Harrison as Professor of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics, and Medical Jurisprudence be accepted, to take effect July 1st 1886.

Resolved that permission be given Dr James F. Harrison to continue to occupy the house in which he now resides until the 1st of September 1886.

On motion Mr. Samuel B. Woods was elected Commissioner of Accounts.

Resolved that the compensation of the Commissioner of Accounts be reduced from one hundred & fifty dollars per annum to $100 per annum.

Whereas: Mr. L. D. Wishard, College Secretary of the International Committee of the Y. M. C. Association (N. Y. city), has said. "I am confident that at least $25,000. can be secured for a Y. M. C. A. building at the University of Virginia provided certain conditions be complied with in the way of guarantees that the building will always be used for the purpose contemplated in the Constitution of the College Young Men's Christian Association," and that: "The confidence with which I speak concerning a building is fully shared by the Committee whose counsel I sought", therefore

Resolved: That we, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, will heartily furnish all the guarantees in our power, so far as they shall seem to us right and reasonable, that a suitable building donated to the University for purpose indicated above, shall always be used according to the intent of the donor.

Resolved: That Professor Davis together with two students, Messrs H. G. Smith and E. M. Stires, members of the Y. M. C. Association of the University are hereby authorized to present this statement to the International Committee.

Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $100. be and is hereby appropriated to defray the expenses of Messrs Smith and Stires to visit New York to attend the meeting of the International Committee for the purpose set forth above, and that the Proctor pay said sum to Messrs Smith & Stires or to Prof. Davis for them, upon their or his application therefor.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 A. M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present - the Rector and same Visitors as on yesterday.

The Committee of the Albemarle Fruit and Grape Growers Association, accompanied by the Prof. of Agriculture, Dr. Page, came before the Board and had an interview as was arranged by a resolution entered on the 28th inst, to which meeting the Miller Board were invited by this Board to be present, which was accepted and the members of that Board attended accordingly.

Mr H. L. Lyman one of the Committee on behalf of the Fruit & Grape Growers Association presented and read a paper setting forth the objects of their interview with this Board, which paper after consideration was received by the Board and ordered to be filed and the following resolution adopted.

Resolved, that this Board receive the propositions of the Grape & Fruit Growers Association that they will consider the same at their present meeting and will refer their action to the Committee through their Executive Committee for confirmation. The Executive Committee will refer back to this Board at its next meeting the action taken, for their consideration.

Resolved, that the election to fill the chair of Medicine, Obstetrics & Medical Jurisprudence be fixed for the 4th day of August next and that notice thereof be published in the Richmond Dispatch, Richmond Whig and Richmond State and the Virginia Medical Monthly twice a week until the time of election.

The Committee on the Conduct of School submitted the following report, which was read and adopted:

Your Committee on conduct of Schools advise that the modifications in Courses of Instruction in Agriculture and Engineering and to the conditions of appointment to the Miller Scholarships as recommended by the Faculty should be adopted, to wit, as follows.

1\. The course of instruction in the school of Agriculture should be expanded into a two years course.

2\. In the school of Engineering a special course of lectures Agricultural Engineering should be established.

3\. The remaining courses of the Agricultural Department will we understand be modified courses then will stand as follows.

The following are the modifications in conditions of appointment to Miller Scholarships.

The subjects of instruction shall be divided under two heads as follows.

1\. Only students who in the year of candidacy shall have attained distinction in all the studies of the Introductory Course shall be eligible for appointment as Miller Scholars.

2\. That the Scholarship be awarded to that one of the number who shall have received the highest aggregate of marks on these subjects.

3\. That this Scholarship be tenable by him for two years with all its emoluments subject to the following conditions.

1\. Of good conduct and suitable progress in study as determined by the Faculty.

2\. Of pursuing during the first year of his scholarship studies selected from the advanced course of which Agriculture shall be one.

3\. Of pursuing during the second year of his scholarship the remaining studies of the advanced course to which may be added under direction of the Faculty other University work proportioned to his powers.

Resolved, that the report of Committee of conduct of schools on modification of courses of instruction in Agriculture and Agricultural Engineering and modification in condition of appointments of Miller Scholarships and the establishment of a Scholarship to be awarded from the pupils of the Miller School by the superintendent of that school be accepted and put of record, that the sum of $250. be appropriated as a scholarship to be awarded to that student who shall be designated among the pupils of the Miller Manual Labor School by the Principal of the same and who shall comply with all the regulations of the University with regard to the matriculation of Virginia students and who shall pursue the following Introductory course of study.

Zoology & Botany

Mineralogy & Geology

General Chemistry

Junior Physics.

Resolved, that the Faculty be requested to prepare a form of report to be used by the Professor of each school in making an annual report to this Board of the work done in his school during the year. Such a report as will without going too much into detail give to the Board the fullest information as to the efficiency of such school. The most careful attention of the Faculty is called to the preparation of this form. And the Board further orders that the form prescribed by the Faculty shall be used in making the Report of such Professor at its next annual meeting.

Resolved, that the Proctor do refund to Mr Francis J. Thomas the sum of twenty dollars deposited with the Proctor by Mr J. H. P. Leigh about January 1, 1885, it appearing that this sum of $20. was so deposited for the rent of Dormitory No 27 on West Lawn, the rent of which had been already paid by Mr Thomas.

Resolved, that the present occupants of Boarding Houses be allowed to retain the same on the present terms for the ensuing year, and that they be allowed to take boarders in vacation, only when such boarders are attending one or more of the schools at the University.

Resolved, that the indebtedness from students to the University amounting now to something over $8200. be put in process of collection by the Proctor immediately.

Ordered, that such of the Astronomical books and publications now in the Library, or hereafter obtained, as may be selected by the Professor & Director of the Observatory be removed to the Observatory, and that said Professor deliver to the Librarian a Receipt for such works so removed.

Resolved, that the Board disapprove of the use of the Library Room for dancing and requests the Chairman of the Faculty to prohibit the same, but this resolution is not intended to deny the use of the room for the Final Ball under such regulations as to that privilege as the Chairman shall prescribe.

Resolved, that hereafter, in no case, shall a student be allowed to matriculate in the University, without the actual payment of the "General Charges" prescribed by the regulations and credit shall not be extended for "Tuition Fees" except where the amount of such fees be secured by bond with good security to be taken by the Proctor, in such cases as the Faculty may think proper for the allowance of credit.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to settle with Mr Charles Catlett allowing him a credit of two hundred & fifty dollars the amount of the Miller Scholarship due him. It being plain that under the advertisement of the late Board he is justly entitled to that amount.

Resolved, that the Board heartily approves of the original work and publications of several members of the Faculty and earnestly hope that such work may be continued and that it may be participated in by other members of the Faculty.

A communication was recd from Mrs M. Burthe tenant of Boarding House (B) asking allowance to her for certain repairs to the property. On motion the same was referred to the Proctor for his opinion.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was read and approved and its recommendations adopted, and reads as follows.

The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors respectfully submit the following report.

We recommend

1st That the fee for matriculation and use of Library shall be $25.

2nd That the third section of regulations respecting rents of dormitories found on page 61 of Catalogue be amended so as that such rents shall be graduated according to actual value of the dormitories and determined by location, size & condition of each dormitory and that the chairman of the faculty together with the Proctor be empowered to ascertain and determine the amount of rent to be received for each dormitory, provided that the aggregate amount of rent shall not be less than $5000. per annum.

3rd That the sum of $250. be appropriated as a scholarship to be awarded to that student who shall be designated among the pupils of the Miller Manual Labor School by the Principal of same & who shall comply with all the regulations of the University with regard to the matriculation of Virginia Students and who shall follow the following course of study.

1\. Zoology & Botany

2\. Mineralogy & Geology

3\. General Chemistry

4\. Junior Physics

4th That the sum of $250. be appropriated as a Miller scholarship to that student who in the year of his candidacy shall have attained distinction in Zoology, Mineralogy & Geology, General Chemistry and Junior Physics and who shall have attained in the course of his studies and examinations in said schools the highest marks among those competing for the scholarship.

5th We recommend that the charge now made against students for postage on reports sent to their parents or guardians be abolished.

6th That the balance, $1893.40 balance ascertained to be due to     Bowditch be appropriated and paid to him.

7th That an amount not to exceed $700. be appropriated for the purchase of water hose and other apparatus such as may be necessary to secure the buildings against loss by fire.

8th That a sum not exceeding $125. be appropriated to be expended under the direction of Professor Towles & the Proctor in the erection of a water tight compartment for the preservation of material for use in the School of Anatomy.

9th That the Proctor be directed to refund to Prof.'s Minor, Cabell and Harrison the amounts respectively advanced by them for the improvement of the University Cemetery, the amount not to exceed in the aggregate $230.

10th That the profits from the sale of ice now represented to be about $500. be put into the general funds of the University.

11th That the following appropriations be made, viz a sum not to exceed $400. for printing decennial catalogue; a sum not to exceed $250. for the purchase of a polariscope for use in the school of general and industrial chemistry.

12th That a sum not to exceed $100. be appropriated to be expended in advertising for a professor in the school of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics and Medical Jurisprudence.

The Committee further report that the estimated receipts for the year extending from July 1, 1886 to July 1, 1887 will be $88,836.

Signed Respcy submitted

Holmes Conrad

Edward C. Venable

Resolved, that the following appropriations be made for the ensuing year.

Resolved, 2d, That out of any funds not otherwise appropriated the following sums be paid pro-rata

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses submited their Report which reads as follows:

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings and Boarding houses beg leave to report as follows.

The Committee have had very limited time in which to investigate the subjects submitted to them. Fortunately the report of the Proctor and the recommendations of the Faculty touching Grounds & Buildings have saved your Committee much laborious investigation.

Your Committee deem it best to bring to your attention only such repairs and improvements as are necessary for the preservation of the property, believing that the cost of such repairs and improvements, will exhaust all the available funds applicable to such purposes for the ensuing year.

1\. As a means of protecting the property from damage and loss we recommend as first in importance a better distribution of the water supply so as to embrace Dawson's Row and Carr's Hill. There should also be inserted a sufficient number of fire plugs to bring every important building within 300 feet of a fire plug.

There should also be provided 500 feet of 3 inch hose to be used in connection with these plugs, with necessary reel and ladders.

It is believed that the cost of these improvements will not exceed $700.

2\. The supply of water to the Infirmary should be speedily increased. This can be done by taking up and cleaning and relaying, the present water pipe, or if necessary by laying down pipe of larger calibre and connecting it then with the nearest pipe of large calibre. A fire plug should be located at or near the Infirmary. This improvement need not cost over $100.

3\. Carr's Hill. The buildings here are represented by the Faculty and by the Proctor to be in very bad condition and to require a thorough over-hauling. The roofs all leak, the floors are in bad order, the windows fit badly and many of the Dormitories are uninhabitable.For further details this Committee refers to the report of the Committee of the Faculty on the subject filed March 6th 1886.

In view of the dilapidation above described your Committee recommend that immediate steps be taken by the Proctor, to arrest it and to repair damages. Further improvements at this point recommended by the Faculty such as brick pavements, the extension of the gas pipes to that quarter, repainting etc. etc. might follow if funds can be had from the resources of the college applicable to such purposes. No detailed estimate is furnished by the Faculty as to the probable cost of these improvements, but it is believed they will not cost over $1500.

4\. Your Committee recommend that the Proctor proceed to manufacture on or near the University grounds 100,000 bricks for paving and other purposes. The expense of making these bricks should not exceed $500.

5\. That the painting of the wood work of Dr Mallet's house with other smaller items of painting, and certain glazing all recommended by the Committee of the Faculty and not to exceed in cost $200, be allowed and provided for.

6\. It is recommended by the Faculty and endorsed by this Committee that the blacksmith's shop in the fork of the Staunton & Lynchburg roads being an unsightly object on the principal approach to the University be removed to some less conspicuous place.

7\. It is further recommended that the Trustees of Temperance Hall be authorized to cause the removal of a rear appendage to the Hall, the same being unsightly and dangerous. And that in future no structure shall be placed against or near said Hall, without the consent of its Trustees, or the express order of this Board.

8\. The building of a new ice house is strongly recommended. It will take the place of one destroyed last season, and the expense of it can be met without any special appropriation, in-as much as there is a special fund on hand of about $500. net profits on sales of ice.

9\. In regard to the Gymnasium occupying the South east building we recommend that it shall hereafter be under the special direction of the Faculty who shall fix the fee at not more than five dollars. All fees shall be paid to the Proctor and disbursed by him as the Faculty may direct.

10\. As to boarding houses your Committee have heard no complaints and make no recommendations. Respectfully submitted

Signed W. A. Stuart

William H. Payne.

Resolved, that the recommendations of the Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding houses, be adopted, except as to the one numbered 8 in regard to which action is postponed.

The Committee on the Library submitted their report which was read received and approved, ordered to be filed, which report reads as follows.

The Committee on the Library respectfully report, that the Library Room and the Books have been kept in good order during the past year. It appears from the Report made by the Library Committee of the Faculty to that Body that the valuable books donated by A. A. Austin to the University Library have not been placed in the Library because of lack of room & shelving to receive them, and the lack of funds to provide proper accomodations. This Committee suggests that provision may be made for the donation as well as for future additions to the Library, by transferring the Law Books to the Law Lecture Room, the Chemical Works to the Laboratory, and the Books on Engineering to the Room of Applied Mathematics and by the sale of Books having now no general usefulness or special value, and that, if necessary and expedient, accomodations may be provided for books in the Upper Gallery of the Rotunda. In the Report of the Faculty to the Visitors the estimate cost of shelving necessary to place the Austin Books in the Library is estimated at $150.00

No appropriation was made for the Library out of University funds for the session just closed by the late Board of Visitors. The yearly income from Investments of money donated to the Library amounts to $456. of which $300. comes from the Fund and $156. from the Madison Fund.

The Committee make no recommendation as to making any appropriation for the Library, because of the great demands upon the funds of the University to meet more exigent needs than those of the Library.

Signed. Jno L. Marye

R. W. Martin.

On motion the Board adjourned to tomorrow at 10 A. M.

Alex' H. H. Stuart Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Yesterday.

Present, the Rector and same members of the Board as on Yesterday with the exception of Mr Venable who was excused by the Board and left for home.

Resolved, That the Board looking with favor upon the proposition of the Pomological Association refer the matter to Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman of the Executive Committee with instructions to report such action as he may deem proper to report to the Board at its meeting on August 4th

Resolved, That the Proctor be directed to provide a suitable desk for the safe keeping of the records of this Board.

To enable the Chairman of the Faculty to perform efficiently the additional duties laid upon him in connection with the External relations of the University, it shall be the duty of the Assistant Instructor in Pure Mathematics and Physics to perform the duties of Secretary to the Chairman of the Faculty.

In view of the extended duties imposed upon R. D. Bohannon Instructor in the Schools of Pure Mathematics and Physics it is ordered that his salary be fixed at $1500. per annum and that amount is hereby appropriated for that purpose.

Resolved, that the sum of $500. is hereby appropriated for the purpose of improving the external relations of the University and that amount will be held by the Proctor, subject to the order of the Chairman of the Faculty and Committee on External Relations.

The Report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health Sewers & Drainage, was submitted, and read to the Board and on motion the same was received and approved and the following resolution in relation to the same was adopted.

Resolved, that the improvements recommended in the report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health, Sewer & Drainage, be made as the funds applicable to repairs and improvements will justify, beginning with the surface drainage of the lawn. (A copy of this report will appear below)

On motion the Board adjourned to meet August 4th 1886.

Report of Com. on Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage refd to above.

Your Committee take pleasure in reporting the Sewerage Works recently perfected in successful operation & that the Board of Health is of the opinion that the sanitary condition of the University is thereby greatly improved.

A defect however exists in the water pipes, some of them, notable those supplying the Infirmary being too small, some obstruction being already observable in the water flow. This defect your Committee recommends be speedily remedied. They also recommend that Carr's Hill be put in connection with the water supply.

But while the sewerage system is perfected the surface & subsoil Drainage is very imperfect. The lawn being a flat smoothe plateau with no water conduits there is of necessity constant soil saturation & the basements of nearly all of the Professor's pavilions are damp. We therefore recommend that piping be layed immediately in front of the Colonnade on both the East & West sides of the lawn, with occasional French Drains to carry off the rainfall from the roofs of the houses.

The water now supplied to the University is considered unusually pure & free from contamination of any kind. All wells are liable to contamination & particularly such as are in use around the University because of their location: We therefore recommend that the pumps & wells be closed & the denizens of the University be required to use the water now supplied from the hydrants connected with the new water supply.

For a particular account of the Sewers see report of the Board of Health of the University.

We urgently recommend that a chimney stack be erected near the centre of the Infirmary building, that four rooms may be warmed by open fire places (which cannot now be done by the furnace), & for ventilation, because open fire places afford the readiest & most efficient mode of keeping the atmosphere of a room pure & fresh.

Your Committee further recommend that Board of Health be requested to see that water closets or other suitable means of disposing of excreta be erected for the use of all residents of the University.

Respectfully submitted,

Signed R. W. Martin

Wm H. Payne

Holmes Conrad

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University held at the time and place above written, the following members were present:

Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector and Messrs Conrad, Martin, Payne, Randolph, Stuart (W. C.) & Venable.

The Rector called the Board to order. The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and ordered to be filed.

The resignation of Dr Jas F. Harrison as Professor, was read, together with his written request to be allowed to appear before the Board and make a statement in connection with his resignation, whereupon, it was

Resolved, that in accordance with the request of Dr J.F. Harrison, he be allowed to appear before this Board at 4 P.M. to-day to make a statement in connection with the resignation of his professorship.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as recommends, that the Finance and Executive Committee of the Board shall each consist of four members, two of whom shall constitute a quorum.

That the regular Standing Committees of the Board be rearranged and consolidated as follows, viz:

1\. Comm: Finance, Miller Board & Observatory Fund.

2\. Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses

3\. Library & Apparatus

4\. Conduct of Schools & Examination of students

5\. Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage, be adopted.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as indicates the several Committees of the Board, to which the various reports, papers and subjects therein mentioned should be referred - is adopted and the reference there suggested is ordered - and the communication of Mr. Catlett to the Chairman of the Faculty since received, is referred to the Committee on conduct of Schools.

Resolved, that the subject of old indebtedness of Students mentioned in the Report of the Executive Committee - be referred to the Committee on finance.

Dr Harrison leaving requested that instead of his appearing before the Board this evening at 4 o'clock he be allowed to appear to-morrow at the same hour. On motion Dr Harrison's request was granted.

Resolved, that the Board go into the election of Professor of Anatomy to-morrow at 10 A. M. and immediately thereafter into the election of the Proctor, Librarian, Commissioner of Accounts and any other officers to be elected.

The Annual Report of the Faculty to the Board having been submitted by the Chairman of the Faculty with papers and documents accompanying same, on motion the same was read to the Board by the Secretary, whereupon the report was referred to the several Standing Committees of the Board, the different subjects presented by the report to be considered and reported on by the appropriate Committees.

On motion the following resolution in reference to Dr Jas L. Cabell was adopted.

In view of his long and eminent services to the University of Va it is ordered by its Board of Visitors that Dr Jas L. Cabell shall henceforth be relieved of all outdoor practice upon students of the Institution whether requiring medical treatment in the Infirmary or in their rooms. Dr Cabell however is designated and shall be regarded by the other members of the Medical Faculty whose duty it will be to render general medical services to the students of the Institution as their Consulting Physician.

As the Board considers that the duties of Dr Cabell in his relation of consulting Physician and President of the Board of health will be as onerous and responsible and his services in this capacity as valuable as under the existing arrangement, it is for these reasons ordered that his proportional interest to which he is entitled as at present determined, in the Infirmary fees shall not be impaired.

Messrs A. R. Blakey and H. L. Lyman a Committee in behalf of the Albemarle Fruit & Grape Growers Association called and requested to have an interview with the Board which was accorded, and the gentlemen appeared and stated the objects of their desired interview. Whereupon it was

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors will be glad to confer with the Committee of the Albemarle Grape & Fruit growers Association and designate 4 P. M. on Wednesday as the hour. That we request that the Committee will also put their proposition in writing and that the Professor of Agriculture be requested to meet the Committee with the Board of Visitors.

The Proctor's Report (annual) to the Board was taken up, read by the Secretary to the Board & thereupon on motion it was ordered that the same be received and filed, and the various subjects treated of by the report be referred for consideration & report to the proper Committees.

The Rector designated the following as the Standing Committees under the resolution on page 27 \[23\] of this Book reconstituting the Committees, viz

Finance, Miller & Observatory Fund Comm.

Messrs Conrad, W. A. Stuart, Venable & Randolph

Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses.

Messrs W. A. Stuart, Payne & Walker

Library & Apparatus

Messrs Marye, Walker & Martin

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students

Messrs Randolph, Venable & Marye

Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage

Messrs Martin, Payne & Conrad.

The Report of the Proctor supplementary & explanatory of his principal report was read and on motion the same was ordered to be received & filed and referred along with the principal report to the appropriate Committees having charge of the subjects submitted by the said supplemental report, for their consideration & report.

On motion the Board adjourned to to-morrow at 10 A. M.

Dr Archer Atkinson -

Baltimore, Md

Dr E. C. Carter -

Columbus, Ohio

Dr C. B. Nuncrede -

Phila, Pa

Dr W. B. Towles -

University of Va

Dr Edward Warren -

Paris, France

Dr Thomas K. Cruse -

Wappinger's Falls, N. Y.

Dr C. A. Bryce -

Richmond, Va

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present - The Rector and the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Hon. J. L. Marye.

The first order of business being the election of a Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica, the Board proceeded with having read before it the names of the several applicants, their written applications and the testimonials accompanying the same.

The following are the names of the applicants:

Upon a vote being had Dr Wm B. Towles was unanimously elected as Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica in the University of Va.

A vote was next had for Librarian which resulted in the election of Mr James B. Baker of Abingdon, Va.

Then followed a vote for Proctor of the University which resulted in the election of Major Green Peyton, of Albemarle County, Va.

Resolved, that the resignation of Dr James F. Harrison as Professor of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics, and Medical Jurisprudence be accepted, to take effect July 1st 1886.

Resolved that permission be given Dr James F. Harrison to continue to occupy the house in which he now resides until the 1st of September 1886.

On motion Mr. Samuel B. Woods was elected Commissioner of Accounts.

Resolved that the compensation of the Commissioner of Accounts be reduced from one hundred & fifty dollars per annum to $100 per annum.

Whereas: Mr. L. D. Wishard, College Secretary of the International Committee of the Y. M. C. Association (N. Y. city), has said. "I am confident that at least $25,000. can be secured for a Y. M. C. A. building at the University of Virginia provided certain conditions be complied with in the way of guarantees that the building will always be used for the purpose contemplated in the Constitution of the College Young Men's Christian Association," and that: "The confidence with which I speak concerning a building is fully shared by the Committee whose counsel I sought", therefore

Resolved: That we, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, will heartily furnish all the guarantees in our power, so far as they shall seem to us right and reasonable, that a suitable building donated to the University for purpose indicated above, shall always be used according to the intent of the donor.

Resolved: That Professor Davis together with two students, Messrs H. G. Smith and E. M. Stires, members of the Y. M. C. Association of the University are hereby authorized to present this statement to the International Committee.

Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $100. be and is hereby appropriated to defray the expenses of Messrs Smith and Stires to visit New York to attend the meeting of the International Committee for the purpose set forth above, and that the Proctor pay said sum to Messrs Smith & Stires or to Prof. Davis for them, upon their or his application therefor.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 A. M.

Junior Class:

1.

Zoology, lectures & Laboratory work

3 weekly Oct.-Jan'y 3 months Feb.-June

2.

Botany, lectures & Laboratory work

Senior Class.

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

3 weekly through the year

2.

School of Engineering

Class of Agricultural Engineering

a.

Agricultural Engineering

b.

Agricultural Structures

c.

Agricultural Hydraulics

d.

Agricultural Machines

I.

Introductory Course

1.

Zoology & Botany

Prof. Page

2.

Mineralogy & Geology

Prof. Fontaine

3.

General Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

4.

Junior Physics

Prof. Smith

II.

Advanced Course

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

Prof. Page

2.

Industrial Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

3.

Analytical & Agricultural Chemistry

Prof. Dunnington

4.

Agricultural Engineering

Prof. Thornton

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present - the Rector and same Visitors as on yesterday.

The Committee of the Albemarle Fruit and Grape Growers Association, accompanied by the Prof. of Agriculture, Dr. Page, came before the Board and had an interview as was arranged by a resolution entered on the 28th inst, to which meeting the Miller Board were invited by this Board to be present, which was accepted and the members of that Board attended accordingly.

Mr H. L. Lyman one of the Committee on behalf of the Fruit & Grape Growers Association presented and read a paper setting forth the objects of their interview with this Board, which paper after consideration was received by the Board and ordered to be filed and the following resolution adopted.

Resolved, that this Board receive the propositions of the Grape & Fruit Growers Association that they will consider the same at their present meeting and will refer their action to the Committee through their Executive Committee for confirmation. The Executive Committee will refer back to this Board at its next meeting the action taken, for their consideration.

Resolved, that the election to fill the chair of Medicine, Obstetrics & Medical Jurisprudence be fixed for the 4th day of August next and that notice thereof be published in the Richmond Dispatch, Richmond Whig and Richmond State and the Virginia Medical Monthly twice a week until the time of election.

The Committee on the Conduct of School submitted the following report, which was read and adopted:

Your Committee on conduct of Schools advise that the modifications in Courses of Instruction in Agriculture and Engineering and to the conditions of appointment to the Miller Scholarships as recommended by the Faculty should be adopted, to wit, as follows.

1\. The course of instruction in the school of Agriculture should be expanded into a two years course.

2\. In the school of Engineering a special course of lectures Agricultural Engineering should be established.

3\. The remaining courses of the Agricultural Department will we understand be modified courses then will stand as follows.

The following are the modifications in conditions of appointment to Miller Scholarships.

The subjects of instruction shall be divided under two heads as follows.

1\. Only students who in the year of candidacy shall have attained distinction in all the studies of the Introductory Course shall be eligible for appointment as Miller Scholars.

2\. That the Scholarship be awarded to that one of the number who shall have received the highest aggregate of marks on these subjects.

3\. That this Scholarship be tenable by him for two years with all its emoluments subject to the following conditions.

1\. Of good conduct and suitable progress in study as determined by the Faculty.

2\. Of pursuing during the first year of his scholarship studies selected from the advanced course of which Agriculture shall be one.

3\. Of pursuing during the second year of his scholarship the remaining studies of the advanced course to which may be added under direction of the Faculty other University work proportioned to his powers.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Yesterday.

Present, the Rector and same members of the Board as on Yesterday with the exception of Mr Venable who was excused by the Board and left for home.

Resolved, That the Board looking with favor upon the proposition of the Pomological Association refer the matter to Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman of the Executive Committee with instructions to report such action as he may deem proper to report to the Board at its meeting on August 4th

Resolved, That the Proctor be directed to provide a suitable desk for the safe keeping of the records of this Board.

To enable the Chairman of the Faculty to perform efficiently the additional duties laid upon him in connection with the External relations of the University, it shall be the duty of the Assistant Instructor in Pure Mathematics and Physics to perform the duties of Secretary to the Chairman of the Faculty.

In view of the extended duties imposed upon R. D. Bohannon Instructor in the Schools of Pure Mathematics and Physics it is ordered that his salary be fixed at $1500. per annum and that amount is hereby appropriated for that purpose.

Resolved, that the sum of $500. is hereby appropriated for the purpose of improving the external relations of the University and that amount will be held by the Proctor, subject to the order of the Chairman of the Faculty and Committee on External Relations.

The Report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health Sewers & Drainage, was submitted, and read to the Board and on motion the same was received and approved and the following resolution in relation to the same was adopted.

Resolved, that the improvements recommended in the report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health, Sewer & Drainage, be made as the funds applicable to repairs and improvements will justify, beginning with the surface drainage of the lawn. (A copy of this report will appear below)

On motion the Board adjourned to meet August 4th 1886.

At the annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University held at the time and place above written, the following members were present:

Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector and Messrs Conrad, Martin, Payne, Randolph, Stuart (W. C.) & Venable.

The Rector called the Board to order. The Executive Committee submitted its report which was read and ordered to be filed.

The resignation of Dr Jas F. Harrison as Professor, was read, together with his written request to be allowed to appear before the Board and make a statement in connection with his resignation, whereupon, it was

Resolved, that in accordance with the request of Dr J.F. Harrison, he be allowed to appear before this Board at 4 P.M. to-day to make a statement in connection with the resignation of his professorship.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as recommends, that the Finance and Executive Committee of the Board shall each consist of four members, two of whom shall constitute a quorum.

That the regular Standing Committees of the Board be rearranged and consolidated as follows, viz:

1\. Comm: Finance, Miller Board & Observatory Fund.

2\. Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses

3\. Library & Apparatus

4\. Conduct of Schools & Examination of students

5\. Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage, be adopted.

Resolved, that so much of the Report of the Executive Committee as indicates the several Committees of the Board, to which the various reports, papers and subjects therein mentioned should be referred - is adopted and the reference there suggested is ordered - and the communication of Mr. Catlett to the Chairman of the Faculty since received, is referred to the Committee on conduct of Schools.

Resolved, that the subject of old indebtedness of Students mentioned in the Report of the Executive Committee - be referred to the Committee on finance.

Dr Harrison leaving requested that instead of his appearing before the Board this evening at 4 o'clock he be allowed to appear to-morrow at the same hour. On motion Dr Harrison's request was granted.

Resolved, that the Board go into the election of Professor of Anatomy to-morrow at 10 A. M. and immediately thereafter into the election of the Proctor, Librarian, Commissioner of Accounts and any other officers to be elected.

The Annual Report of the Faculty to the Board having been submitted by the Chairman of the Faculty with papers and documents accompanying same, on motion the same was read to the Board by the Secretary, whereupon the report was referred to the several Standing Committees of the Board, the different subjects presented by the report to be considered and reported on by the appropriate Committees.

On motion the following resolution in reference to Dr Jas L. Cabell was adopted.

In view of his long and eminent services to the University of Va it is ordered by its Board of Visitors that Dr Jas L. Cabell shall henceforth be relieved of all outdoor practice upon students of the Institution whether requiring medical treatment in the Infirmary or in their rooms. Dr Cabell however is designated and shall be regarded by the other members of the Medical Faculty whose duty it will be to render general medical services to the students of the Institution as their Consulting Physician.

As the Board considers that the duties of Dr Cabell in his relation of consulting Physician and President of the Board of health will be as onerous and responsible and his services in this capacity as valuable as under the existing arrangement, it is for these reasons ordered that his proportional interest to which he is entitled as at present determined, in the Infirmary fees shall not be impaired.

Messrs A. R. Blakey and H. L. Lyman a Committee in behalf of the Albemarle Fruit & Grape Growers Association called and requested to have an interview with the Board which was accorded, and the gentlemen appeared and stated the objects of their desired interview. Whereupon it was

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors will be glad to confer with the Committee of the Albemarle Grape & Fruit growers Association and designate 4 P. M. on Wednesday as the hour. That we request that the Committee will also put their proposition in writing and that the Professor of Agriculture be requested to meet the Committee with the Board of Visitors.

The Proctor's Report (annual) to the Board was taken up, read by the Secretary to the Board & thereupon on motion it was ordered that the same be received and filed, and the various subjects treated of by the report be referred for consideration & report to the proper Committees.

The Rector designated the following as the Standing Committees under the resolution on page 27 \[23\] of this Book reconstituting the Committees, viz

Finance, Miller & Observatory Fund Comm.

Messrs Conrad, W. A. Stuart, Venable & Randolph

Grounds & Buildings & Boarding Houses.

Messrs W. A. Stuart, Payne & Walker

Library & Apparatus

Messrs Marye, Walker & Martin

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students

Messrs Randolph, Venable & Marye

Infirmary, Health, Sewers & Drainage

Messrs Martin, Payne & Conrad.

The Report of the Proctor supplementary & explanatory of his principal report was read and on motion the same was ordered to be received & filed and referred along with the principal report to the appropriate Committees having charge of the subjects submitted by the said supplemental report, for their consideration & report.

On motion the Board adjourned to to-morrow at 10 A. M.

Dr Archer Atkinson -

Baltimore, Md

Dr E. C. Carter -

Columbus, Ohio

Dr C. B. Nuncrede -

Phila, Pa

Dr W. B. Towles -

University of Va

Dr Edward Warren -

Paris, France

Dr Thomas K. Cruse -

Wappinger's Falls, N. Y.

Dr C. A. Bryce -

Richmond, Va

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present - The Rector and the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Hon. J. L. Marye.

The first order of business being the election of a Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica, the Board proceeded with having read before it the names of the several applicants, their written applications and the testimonials accompanying the same.

The following are the names of the applicants:

Upon a vote being had Dr Wm B. Towles was unanimously elected as Professor of Anatomy and Materia Medica in the University of Va.

A vote was next had for Librarian which resulted in the election of Mr James B. Baker of Abingdon, Va.

Then followed a vote for Proctor of the University which resulted in the election of Major Green Peyton, of Albemarle County, Va.

Resolved, that the resignation of Dr James F. Harrison as Professor of Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics, and Medical Jurisprudence be accepted, to take effect July 1st 1886.

Resolved that permission be given Dr James F. Harrison to continue to occupy the house in which he now resides until the 1st of September 1886.

On motion Mr. Samuel B. Woods was elected Commissioner of Accounts.

Resolved that the compensation of the Commissioner of Accounts be reduced from one hundred & fifty dollars per annum to $100 per annum.

Whereas: Mr. L. D. Wishard, College Secretary of the International Committee of the Y. M. C. Association (N. Y. city), has said. "I am confident that at least $25,000. can be secured for a Y. M. C. A. building at the University of Virginia provided certain conditions be complied with in the way of guarantees that the building will always be used for the purpose contemplated in the Constitution of the College Young Men's Christian Association," and that: "The confidence with which I speak concerning a building is fully shared by the Committee whose counsel I sought", therefore

Resolved: That we, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, will heartily furnish all the guarantees in our power, so far as they shall seem to us right and reasonable, that a suitable building donated to the University for purpose indicated above, shall always be used according to the intent of the donor.

Resolved: That Professor Davis together with two students, Messrs H. G. Smith and E. M. Stires, members of the Y. M. C. Association of the University are hereby authorized to present this statement to the International Committee.

Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $100. be and is hereby appropriated to defray the expenses of Messrs Smith and Stires to visit New York to attend the meeting of the International Committee for the purpose set forth above, and that the Proctor pay said sum to Messrs Smith & Stires or to Prof. Davis for them, upon their or his application therefor.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet to-morrow at 10 A. M.

Junior Class:

1.

Zoology, lectures & Laboratory work

3 weekly Oct.-Jan'y 3 months Feb.-June

2.

Botany, lectures & Laboratory work

Senior Class.

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

3 weekly through the year

2.

School of Engineering

Class of Agricultural Engineering

a.

Agricultural Engineering

b.

Agricultural Structures

c.

Agricultural Hydraulics

d.

Agricultural Machines

I.

Introductory Course

1.

Zoology & Botany

Prof. Page

2.

Mineralogy & Geology

Prof. Fontaine

3.

General Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

4.

Junior Physics

Prof. Smith

II.

Advanced Course

1.

Scientific & Practical Agriculture

Prof. Page

2.

Industrial Chemistry

Prof. Mallet

3.

Analytical & Agricultural Chemistry

Prof. Dunnington

4.

Agricultural Engineering

Prof. Thornton

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present - the Rector and same Visitors as on yesterday.

The Committee of the Albemarle Fruit and Grape Growers Association, accompanied by the Prof. of Agriculture, Dr. Page, came before the Board and had an interview as was arranged by a resolution entered on the 28th inst, to which meeting the Miller Board were invited by this Board to be present, which was accepted and the members of that Board attended accordingly.

Mr H. L. Lyman one of the Committee on behalf of the Fruit & Grape Growers Association presented and read a paper setting forth the objects of their interview with this Board, which paper after consideration was received by the Board and ordered to be filed and the following resolution adopted.

Resolved, that this Board receive the propositions of the Grape & Fruit Growers Association that they will consider the same at their present meeting and will refer their action to the Committee through their Executive Committee for confirmation. The Executive Committee will refer back to this Board at its next meeting the action taken, for their consideration.

Resolved, that the election to fill the chair of Medicine, Obstetrics & Medical Jurisprudence be fixed for the 4th day of August next and that notice thereof be published in the Richmond Dispatch, Richmond Whig and Richmond State and the Virginia Medical Monthly twice a week until the time of election.

The Committee on the Conduct of School submitted the following report, which was read and adopted:

Your Committee on conduct of Schools advise that the modifications in Courses of Instruction in Agriculture and Engineering and to the conditions of appointment to the Miller Scholarships as recommended by the Faculty should be adopted, to wit, as follows.

1\. The course of instruction in the school of Agriculture should be expanded into a two years course.

2\. In the school of Engineering a special course of lectures Agricultural Engineering should be established.

3\. The remaining courses of the Agricultural Department will we understand be modified courses then will stand as follows.

The following are the modifications in conditions of appointment to Miller Scholarships.

The subjects of instruction shall be divided under two heads as follows.

1\. Only students who in the year of candidacy shall have attained distinction in all the studies of the Introductory Course shall be eligible for appointment as Miller Scholars.

2\. That the Scholarship be awarded to that one of the number who shall have received the highest aggregate of marks on these subjects.

3\. That this Scholarship be tenable by him for two years with all its emoluments subject to the following conditions.

1\. Of good conduct and suitable progress in study as determined by the Faculty.

2\. Of pursuing during the first year of his scholarship studies selected from the advanced course of which Agriculture shall be one.

3\. Of pursuing during the second year of his scholarship the remaining studies of the advanced course to which may be added under direction of the Faculty other University work proportioned to his powers.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on Yesterday.

Present, the Rector and same members of the Board as on Yesterday with the exception of Mr Venable who was excused by the Board and left for home.

Resolved, That the Board looking with favor upon the proposition of the Pomological Association refer the matter to Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman of the Executive Committee with instructions to report such action as he may deem proper to report to the Board at its meeting on August 4th

Resolved, That the Proctor be directed to provide a suitable desk for the safe keeping of the records of this Board.

To enable the Chairman of the Faculty to perform efficiently the additional duties laid upon him in connection with the External relations of the University, it shall be the duty of the Assistant Instructor in Pure Mathematics and Physics to perform the duties of Secretary to the Chairman of the Faculty.

In view of the extended duties imposed upon R. D. Bohannon Instructor in the Schools of Pure Mathematics and Physics it is ordered that his salary be fixed at $1500. per annum and that amount is hereby appropriated for that purpose.

Resolved, that the sum of $500. is hereby appropriated for the purpose of improving the external relations of the University and that amount will be held by the Proctor, subject to the order of the Chairman of the Faculty and Committee on External Relations.

The Report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health Sewers & Drainage, was submitted, and read to the Board and on motion the same was received and approved and the following resolution in relation to the same was adopted.

Resolved, that the improvements recommended in the report of the Committee on Infirmary, Health, Sewer & Drainage, be made as the funds applicable to repairs and improvements will justify, beginning with the surface drainage of the lawn. (A copy of this report will appear below)

On motion the Board adjourned to meet August 4th 1886.
