---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1887'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Salaries of Instructors

Professors, 18 at $3000.

$54,000.00

Assistant in Mathematics & Natural Philosophy

1,300.

Assistants in Ancient & Modern Languages 2 $600

1,200.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

500.

Salaries of Officers

Chairman

500.

Proctor

1,600.

Librarian & Secretary of the Faculty

750.

Secretary of the Board

150.

Commissioner of Accounts

100.

Janitor

600.

Repairs & Improvements

Maintenance of Grounds & Buildings

3,000.

New Anatomical Lecture Room

2,000.

Interest & Sinking Fund

7,220.

Current Expenses

Library \[Gordon Fund 300, Madison Fund 156, Genl Appr 44\]

500.

Observatory \[Balance of income after paying the Director\]

1,610.

Infirmary \[equivalent to receipts\]

1,800.

Catalogues & other Advertising

1,000.

Printing blanks

150.

Diplomas

400.

Fuel

400.

Gas

600.

Labor

1,000.

Night Watchman

300.

Chairman's Messenger, to act also as day watch

300.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Commutation of rents to 4 professors

1,200

Contingent Fund

1,200

Apparatus

Nat1 Philosophy $300, Chemistry $300.

700.

Nat1 Hist. $50, Engineering $50

Anatomical Fund

100.

Special Appropriations

External Relations

50.

Decennial Catalogue

50.

Codification of Enactments

50.

Tablet in Library see p 80 \[70\]

25.

Bracket for Bust of Prof. Rogers

10.

Miller Scholarship

250.

Reserve of Miller Funds for reorganizing Ag1 Dept

4,500.

Surplus

71.

89,366.

Ayes, - Messrs Conrad, Martin, Marye, Perkins, Parrish, Noland, Stuart and Randolph

Ayes

8

Nays - Mr Venable.

Nays

1

The Visitors of the University met thereat in annual session on the 27th day of June 1887.

In the absence of a Rector and Rector pro. tem , Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Rector and Genl Wm H. Payne, Rector pro tem. both having resigned as Visitors since the last meeting of the Board of Visitors, Dr W. C. N. Randolph, as chairman of the Executive Committee, called the meeting to order, and on motion of Mr Wm A. Stuart, he was chosen to preside. Present. Holmes Conrad, J. L. Marye, R. W. Martin, R. L. Parrish, W. C. N. Randolph, Wm A. Stuart and E. C. Venable, also the new members, viz:

B. P. Noland of Loudoun County, vice Genl Wm H. Payne, resigned, and

George Perkins of the town of Charlottesville, vice Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, resigned.

The chairman stated the first order of business to be the election of a Rector, whereupon Hon. John L. Marye was placed in nomination and unanimously elected Rector. On motion Dr Randolph was by a unanimous vote elected Rector pro. tem. The Rector then took the chair and the business of the Board was proceeded with.

Messrs Noland & Perkins filed certificates of their qualification as Visitors which on motion were ordered to be spread upon the minutes, which is done as follows:

Virginia:

At a county court held for Fauquier County at the Court house thereof on Monday the 23d day of May 1887.

B. P. Noland who has been duly appointed and commissioned by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for the term ending           , this day appeared in Court and took and subscribed the oath of office and the antiduelling oath required by law.

A copy, teste, R. H. Downman Clerk

At a court held for Albemarle County June 6th 1887.

George Perkins, having been appointed by the Governor of this Commonwealth, a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, is permitted to qualify as such Visitor, and he thereupon took and subscribed the oaths required by law.

A Copy, Teste, F. W. Page, D. C.

On motion, the Secretary was requested to notify the Chairman of the Faculty, Prof. Venable, that the Board was prepared to receive such official communications as he desired to submit for its consideration, which was done, and the Chairman presented to the Board

The Annual Report of the Faculty & accompanying documents and The Annual Report of the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings.

The Rector appointed the following Standing Committees: Finance, Miller & Observatory Fund.

Messrs Conrad, Stuart, Venable & Randolph.

Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses.

Messrs Stuart, Noland & Parrish.

Library & Apparatus:

Messrs Parrish, Martin & Perkins.

Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students.

Messrs Randolph, Venable & Perkins.

Infirmary, Health, Sewerage & Drainage.

Messrs Martin, Noland & Conrad.

The Board ordered the report of the Faculty to be read which was done, whereupon on motion, it was ordered that the various subjects presented by the report be referred to the appropriate Committees of the Board for consideration and report.

The Executive Committee, through its chairman, Dr Randolph, submitted its annual report which reads as follows.

"University June 27th 1887

Report of Executive Committee to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Gentlemen.

On the 15 of October 1886 the Executive Committee met at University.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Visitors, the faculty reported to the Executive Committee a plan for the establishment of a School of Pharmacy in the University which the Committee approved and adopted. The School has been established. Owing to the fact that it was begun after the session opened the attendance on it has been small. As it is one of the professional courses, the Committee fixed the fees to be paid by all students who pursue the course. The total fees in the school, if the whole course is taken in one year are $135.

The Faculty also submitted a plan for the establishment of a dispensary in Charlottesville, The plan met the approbation of the Committee and the dispensary has been established and proved a decided success both in the good results to the community and the students of medicine. The plan of work of both the School of Pharmacy and the dispensary are fully recorded in the proceedings of the Committee, to which the Board of Visitors are referred for any further information desired. At the suggestion of the Committee the Proctor has funded into 6% bonds payable at the option of the University the 8% bonds of the Corporation whose payment was at the pleasure of the University authorities.

The Proctor was also directed, if possible, to retire and cancel the bonds of the University held by the Miller Board for the sum of $10,000. advanced by that Board in construction of cases for the specimens in the Brooks Museum. This action was taken because the University does not justly owe this debt as it has been paid to the Miller Board, who in view of the advance to the University, paid this Corporation a lessened revenue yearly until the sum advanced was equalled.

The Committee desiring to prevent the presentation of Mills to the Board of Visitors for unauthorized expenditures by members of the Faculty and officers of the University, ordered that no expenditures of money be made on account of the University except such as shall be made by the Proctor upon the order of the Board of Visitors and that no individual shall be allowed to make any changes in property belonging to the Corporation except under the authority of the Proctor & with the approval of the Board of Visitors.

At the meeting of the Committee on the 13th of May, the bond of the Proctor, Major G. Peyton, in the sum of $20,000 was received examined and accepted. His surities are S. V. Southall & R. F. Mason. The bond of the Bank of Albemarle for the sum of $60,000 to protect the deposits of the University was received, examined and accepted, the surities in the bond are Messrs R. F. Mason, C. D. Fishburn, W. E. Norris, Jas B. Wood, R. H. Wood, L. T. Hanckel, S. V. Southall, G. Peyton, N. M. Page & Jas D. Jones, whose combined wealth is represented to be about $150,000. This bond is in due form & was authorized by the Stockholders of the Bank of Albemarle in regular meeting." (These two bonds are copied in the minute book of the Executive Committee)

"Dr Randolph Chairman of this Committee has with the consent of the Committee and upon the advice of the Rector Hon. A. H. H. Stuart and Professors Minor and Venable, given permission to Hon James W. Austin, who was the first Executor under the will of the late Arthur W. Austin to resume the executorship without security.

The Committee present with this report the letters of Hon. A. H. H. Stuart, Prof. Venable and copy of letter of Mr Austin.

In view of the fact that the law of the Board of Visitors stipulates that the professors shall be elected for one year when first elected, the committee suggest that Professors Towles and Dabney be now elected permanent professors of their respective schools, their terms of service to be at the pleasure of the Board.

The Committee suggest that the bond of the Bank of Albemarle for the security of the deposits of the funds of the University be kept by the Chairman of the Faculty.

The Executive Committee met pursuant to law at the University on 24th of June 1887.

They have received and examined the reports of the Faculty and Proctor which are to be commended for their clear and concise statement of the condition of the University.

The Committee call the especial attention of the Board to the information given in the Report of the Faculty concerning the number of students attending lectures in the University during the present and past sessions.

It is very apparent that the equipment here is greatly in excess of number of students, and that the usefulness of the University would be much promoted if the Board of Visitors, in its wisdom, is able to adopt any means of making known the merits of the institution to the large number of young men in the section of country tributary to the University. The Committee commend to the Board the suggestions of the Faculty with regard to renewed efforts for patronage from the States of Kentucky and West Virginia.

The Committee refer the Board to the reports of the Faculty and Proctor with regard to loss by fire of part of our Medical Hall.

The Committee has heard of no unusual occurrences of any kind during the past session worthy of report to the Board.

With a view to diminishing the work of the Board in its full meeting the committee have carefully read the Faculty report and submit herewith resolutions drawn to cover suggestions made by the Faculty about which there was no difference of opinion among the members of the Committee.

The recommendations of the Proctor are for the most part general in their character and are left to the consideration of the full Board.

Since the last meeting of the Board of Visitors Prof. Page has resigned the Professorship of the School of Agriculture etc and Professor Wheeler has resigned the Professorship of the School of Greek. The Committee regret to state that Professor Wheeler was forced to take this step owing to a failure of his health."

W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman Ex. Comee

Edwd C. Venable.

This report of the Executive Committee was read to the Board and after consideration of the same on motion.

Resolved, that the report of the Executive Committee dated June 27th 1887, is received, approved and adopted together with its recommendations.

Resolved, that the Secretary of this Board be requested to procure an official copy of the last will and testament of Arthur W. Austin decd, the expense thereof to be paid by the Proctor.

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be instructed to inquire into and ascertain through counsel, or otherwise, the best terms upon which the legacy bequeathed to the University by the late Arthur W. Austin may be commuted into money and reduced into possession, and that they report the same to the Board as early as possible.

Resolved, that the action of the Executive Committee in assenting to the resumption of the Trustee-ship of the Austin Estate by J. W. Austin, Esq without security is hereby confirmed, Mr Austin having been the trustee appointed by the will of the testator, his brother, and he having only surrendered it on account of bad health.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

Jno. L Marye Rector

University of Virginia, June 28th 1887.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and same members as on yesterday.

The Chairman of the Faculty sent into the Board the following documents:

1 School reports

2 Report of Profs Fontaine & Stone on Special Practical Work

3 Librarian's Report

4 Batch of printed documents

7 List of Publications by members of the Faculty

8 Copy of Inventory of Estate of Arthur W. Austin, decd, rendered Probate Court by James W. Austin admr d. b. n. June 3d 1887.

9 Petition Rev. M. D. Conway for leave to make copies of the Edmund Randolph letters in the Lee correspondence, in the University Library.

10 Communication from a Committee of ladies of the University new Chapel Association, petitioning that old University ell be granted them.

All of which papers, were on motion, referred to the appropriate Committees for their consideration and report thereon.

Dr Martin Chairman of the Committee on Infirmary, Health, Sewerage & Drainage, on behalf of the Committee, submitted the following report, which upon being read and considered was on motion received, approved and adopted, together with is \[its?\] recommendations:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University,

Gentlemen,

Your Committee notes with pleasure the report of the Faculty in regard to the improved sanitary condition of the Grounds & Buildings at the University, less sickness having occurred than formerly, due as the Faculty thinks, to improved sewerage, abundant water-supply, regular & efficient police of the grounds, & better drainage.

Your Commee respectfully recommend, that the improvements proposed last year and not yet completed, be finished as early as practicable.

Respectfully submitted

R. W. Martin

B. P. Noland

Holmes Conrad.

On the application of ladies of the University, representing the New Chapel.

Resolved, that the Proctor be directed to deliver to the Committee representing the ladies, the old Bell, now in his possession, in order that it may be sold by them & the proceeds applied to the purchase of a new bell, and if there be any charge against the ladies in regard to the old bell, that the Proctor cancel the same.

Resolved, that permission be granted to Mr Moncure D. Conway to make a copy of any manuscripts on papers at the University by, or relating to the late Hon. Edmund Randolph and provided that all such copies be made in the Library and under the supervision of the Librarian.

Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to erect new Book Cases in the Library as needed.

Resolved, that the sum of $1500. be appropriated from the general fund for repairs & improvements to aid in the erection of a Lecture room for the Professor of Anatomy, to be located and erected according to plans submitted to the Board by Prof. Towles, and that the use of $500. in addition be allowed temporarily from the Insurance money in the hands of the Proctor, to further aid in the erection of said building.

The Library Committee submitted their report which was read, approved and adopted, and reads as follows:

The Library Committee respectfully report that they have examined the report of James B. Baker, Librarian; The list of Publications by members of the Faculty from July 1886 to June 1887; and the communication of Moncure D. Conway, Esq, asking permission to copy and use "any manuscripts or papers at the University of Va by or relating to the late Hon. Edmund Randolph" and they recommend that the two resolutions accompanying this report be adopted. (The 2 resolutions here referred to are the last two on the next preceding page of this book)

The following resolutions numbered from 1 to 12, inclusive were submitted by the Executive Committee and were drawn to cover suggestions made by the Faculty report, and were read and adopted, seriatim.

1\. Resolved, that in future no student who received a degree, be allowed to receive at the same session, a lower degree of same order on a course included in the course of the degree received by him.

2\. Resolved, that the managers of Messes be required to pay for Dormitories the same rents that are now required of Keepers of regular Boarding Houses.

3\. Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to supervise the employment of all servants engaged about hotels and dormitories and to prescribe a badge to be worn by said servants.

4\. Resolved, that the Proctor pay to the Faculty Committee on External relations the sum of Fifty Dollars to be expended in promoting the work of said Committee.

5\. Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to put up on the floor of the Library a Brass Tablet, suitably inscribed, and costing not more than Fifty Dollars, on which Tablet shall be recorded all important donations to the Library.

6\. Resolved, that a sum not exceeding Fifty Dollars be appropriated by the Proctor to the payment of the clerical and postal expenses necessary to complete the manuscript of the Decennial Catalogue.

7\. Resolved, that Professor John B. Minor be relieved of the duty of compiling the laws of the University, at his own request, and that the sum of Fifty Dollars be appropriated to defray the necessary clerical expenses of the codification of the laws of the University, which codification it is understood will be done by the Faculty and submitted, in manuscript form to the Board of Visitors at its next annual meeting.

8\. Resolved, that the sum of Ten Dollars be appropriated to the erection of a bracket in the Library suitable for the bust of the late Prof. Wm B. Rogers, and that the Proctor cause such bracket to be constructed and put up.

9\. Resolved, that the Professor of the School of Engineering be authorized to employ an assistant instructor at a cost not exceeding Three hundred dollars; provided, the number of students of the said school shall reach twenty five.

10\. Resolved, that the Summer School of Hebrew be given free use of public rooms and dormitories under the direction of the Chairman of the Faculty.

11\. Resolved, that in the event that the income of the University shall exceed the sum of $89,400. the following appropriations be made, to be paid pro rata out of the surplus; to wit $500. for advertising, $193.59 to the Library Fund for the purpose of returning to that fund the amount expended in providing cases for the Austin collection of books, $400. for defraying the costs of the publication of the Decennial Catalogue, and $250. for purchasing a Polariscope for the Chemical Department. And in the event that said surplus shall be insufficient to accomplish the purposes indicated in this resolution the Faculty be authorized to expend said surplus about such of the said purposes as they may deem most appropriate.

12\. Resolved, that the post graduate student shall pay the same tuition that is required of the under graduates in the corresponding schools, tuition to Virginian students being free in the Academical schools named in the statute, except that the students in the post graduate course of the Chemical Department shall have graduated in both General and Analytical Chemistry, and shall pay a uniform fee of Fifty Dollars for tuition.

Geo B. Marshall owning an Estate adjoining the University grounds, west of the Observatory, and desiring the privilege of passing through the University land in hauling fire wood to the University or to Charlottesville.

Resolved, that the privilege be allowed him by the Executive Committee, under such restrictions as they may deem proper, but this privilege is to be revocable by the order of the Board of Visitors, or its Executive Committee at any time without notice.

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings and Boarding Houses submitted the following report which was read, approved and adopted, with its recommendations.

Your Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses respectfully report.

1\. The recommendation of the Faculty in their report (Sec. 8) respecting the erection of a permanent lecture room for the Professor of Anatomy, is approved. And your Committee recommend an appropriation of $1500. from the general fund for repairs and improvements, to aid in the erection of such a lecture room, and that the Proctor allow the temporary use of $500. of the Insurance money on the contents of the Medical Hall, to aid in the erection of the said lecture room, the estimated cost of which is $2000.

Your committee further recommend that the plan and location proposed by Prof. Towles be adopted.

2\. Your committee recommend that in respect to the application of Dinwiddie, Oberdoffer & Connell, set out in the Proctor's report, no action be taken by the Board of Visitors. Your committee have doubts as to the power of the Board to comply with the request of the applicants.

3\. In regard to the proposition of the Proctor, that the Board of Visitors & the Miller Board, should occupy rooms 50 & 52 on East Range your Committee recommend approval.

4\. The letter of Prof. Venable touching the necessity of a small enclosure around the recently erected monument to the great Jefferson, was referred to your Committee, and we recommend that the Chairman of the Faculty furnish the Proctor with a plan for such enclosure and that the Proctor be directed to carry out the same, & that the expense be defrayed out of funds of the University, not otherwise appropriated.

5\. Respecting the change of the East Entrance to the University grounds, recommended by the Proctor, Your Committee regard the subject as worthy of consideration by a Committee of the whole Board after a careful inspection of the changes proposed on paper, as well as on the ground.

6\. Your Committee herewith return a lengthy communication from Prof. Smith addressed to Dr Randolph by Earnest Bowditch, Esq of Boston.

These communications are in reference to the water supply at the University. The authors of these papers differ as to the remedy for the soils complained of, and your Committee not being experts in such matters, recommend that the subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with discretionary powers to adopt or reject any plan now or hereafter proposed in respect to this matter.

7\. George B. Marshall owning an Estate adjoining the University lands west of the Observatory, and desiring the privilege of passing through the bounds of the University, in hauling firewood to the University and to Charlottesville. We recommend the passage of the following resolution. (For this resolution as adopted see page 82 \[71\] of this book.)

8\. Respecting the application of the Charlottesville Street Railway Company Your Committee approve the resolution proposed by the Executive Committee, refusing permission to said company to enter the University grounds.

The Chairman of the Faculty having communicated to the Board the fact that Joseph L. Jarman had successfully complied with all the conditions required to obtain the Miller Scholarship, in connection with the Agricultural Department.

Resolved, that the Scholarship referred to be conferred on Mr Jarman.

Mr. Conrad, Chairman of the Finance Committee submitted their report which was read, and on motion was received, approved and adopted, and reads as follows:

The Finance Committee respectfully submit the following report:

1\. The receipts for the year ending June 1st 1888 are estimated at $89,476.17 which it is recommended shall be appropriated and expended as follows:

The Committee recommend that the salary of the Commissioner of accounts be increased to the sum of $150.

Resptly submitted Holmes Conrad

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.

Jno. L. Marye Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

University of Va June 29th 1887.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday.

Prof. Page's annl report in his department was handed in also the report from the school of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry. Referred.

The application of Prof. Dunnington for the use of Dormitories No. 50 & 52 on East Range during the summer presented & referred to Commee on Grounds & Buildings.

Mrs Prof. Page's application to be allowed to occupy their Pavillion the ensuing year, presented & referred to same Committee.

Prof. Thornton's application to have assigned to him a Ravilion presented and referred to same, Commee.

Dr Randolph of the joint sub-committee of this Board and of the Miller Board submitted the following report which upon being read on motion was received, approved and adopted, together with its recommendations.

"To joint Committee on Agricultural School etc.

Gentlemen:

Your Committee recommend that the Agricultural School remain as it now is for the next twelve months. That at the end of the year, June 1888, a professor of Agriculture, who shall be a Scientific Biologist be elected, with a salary of $3,000 and a house, & that the Agricultural School be then reorganized in such a manner & to such extent as may be deemed advisable, after conference with said professor.

That $2000. be paid out of the income of the Miller fund, for the coming year, to the Board of Visitors, to be applied to the payment of the professors connected with the Agricultural School, to preserve the farm in good condition, to protect the property belonging to the Miller Board, to conduct & publish the Meterological Observatories & to pay the Scholarships awarded out of the said fund, and that all of the stock & provender belonging to the Miller Board, be sold as well as the growing crops, as soon as practicable and the proceeds paid over to the Treasurer of the said Board.

Respectfully

W. C. N. Randolph,

John M. White.

The same report was adopted by the Miller Board.

Resolved, that the salary of the Assistant in the School of Modern Languages be increased from $600. to $800. In view of this increase, that the assistant be required to devote his whole time to the duties to be assigned to him by the Prof. of Modern Languages, and that the Prof. of Modern Languages be furnished with a copy of this resolution.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

Jho. L. Marye Rector

The Board met this morning pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses reported the following resolutions for the consideration of the Board, numbered from 1 to 4 inclusive, which upon being read and considered on motion nos. 1, 2 & 4 were adopted and no 3. ordered to lie over for further consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

1\. Resolved, that Prof. F. P. Dunnington be allowed the privilege of using Dormitories No 52 & 50 adjoining his dwelling should he need them, for the accomodation of his guests at the University, during a portion of the ensuing vacation, say July & August. Adopted.

2\. Resolved, that if in the opinion of the Proctor, the finances of the institution will admit of it, and the consent of the Insurances Companies be obtained, that two wooden kitchens, outside of the dormitory buildings on Carr's Hill be erected, and the sum necessary to pay therefor not exceeding $150. each, is hereby appropriated, payable out of funds not otherwise appropriated. Adopted.

3\. Resolved, that when the house now occupied by Prof. Wheeler shall be vacated that the same be assigned to Prof. Venable unless he shall prefer his present location, and that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be assigned to whichever of the two houses may not be occupied by Prof. Venable. Ordered to lie over for consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

4\. Resolved that the house now occupied by the family of Dr Page, may continue to be so occupied, until in the opinion of this Board, it shall become necessary to otherwise occupy it. Adopted.

Resolved, that the Secretary of the Miller Board be and he is hereby requested to take charge of the property referred to by Dr Page in his last Report and especially indicated in a list thereto appended, a copy of which Report was furnished said Miller Board.

Resolved, that the present occupants of the Boarding houses at the University be allowed to continue to occupy them for the ensuing year, on the terms of the year just expired.

Resolved, that the Executive Committee be empowered, if in their judgment after consultation with the Faculty, it be deemed expedient, to publish in each catalogue one graduates examination of each school in the University.

The following resolution was offered and on motion was ordered to be recorded and lie over for consideration at the next meeting of the Board:

Resolved, that in the list of students published in the Catalogue the name of the last previously attended college or school be inserted, the names of colleges in capitals, & the schools in small letters.

The Committee on Conduct of Schools and Examination of Students submitted the following report, which upon being read was on motion received, approved & adopted:

To the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Va

Gentlemen

Your Commee on Schools and the Conduct of Examinations of Students respectfully reports as follows.

We have carefully examined the written Statements of Eighteen (18) Professors as to the management of their respective chairs, the course of instruction afforded the students under their charge, the examinations had, the attendance of the Professors etc. and find, from this evidence, that the duties of the several Professors have been faithfully discharged, the work of the students satisfactorily done in the main, and the general success of the year encouraging.

The Report of Prof. Stone, Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory is an elaborate account of observations made by him, and contains a statement of publications emanating from his chair which are, doubtless, of great value to the scientific world.

In accordance with the request of Prof. Page, Your Committee suggests that some one be appointed to whom the property on the Experimental Farm may be delivered.

In order that the Board may form an intelligent idea of the proficiency of the students, and the scope and character of the instruction afforded by the several chairs, it is suggested that the members of the Faculty be requested to furnish to the Board hereafter at the annual meeting copies of the Final Examinations held by them said copies to be delivered in sealed envelopes, and, after inspection to be returned sealed-up, to the Several Professors.

We herewith return the several reports submitted to us.

Respectfully

W. C. N. Randolph Chairman

A written communication to the Board was received from Prof. James M. Garnett of this date relating to the conduct of the School of the English Language and Literature, whereupon,

On motion of Dr W. C. N. Randolph it was ordered that said communication be referred to a special committee to be appointed by the Rector.

The Rector appointed Messers Parrish, Randolph and Stuart as members of said committee.

The Special Committee raised to consider and report upon the communication of Professor Garnett made the following report.

University of Virginia

June 30th 1887

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

The Committee to which was referred the letter of Prof. James M. Garnett of this date in the following words and figures, to wit:

Having understood that your Hon. body is still unsatisfied as to the reconsideration of the resolution adopted with respect to the School of English, which reconsideration I requested in my statement already submitted, I have the honor to request that the matter be laid over until the next annual meeting of the Board, Within that time your Hon. body can examine more carefully into the objections made as to the conduct of the School, & I can have the opportunity of removing any that in your judgment, may really exist. In the mean time, I should be obliged for any suggestions as to change in the course of instruction, which I shall endeavor to carry out. I have in my statement indicated certain changes in the position of this school with respect to the degrees which would greatly benefit the school, if adopted by your Hon. body. I feel confident, that under such circumstances all objections would be satisfactorily removed.

I desire to say further that if, at the close of that time, these objections on the part of your Hon body still continue, & I am so officially informed, I shall place my resignation at your disposal, for I do not desire to hold a chair in any institution where, the authorities are dissatisfied with my conduct of it.

beg leave to report that they have considered the said letter, and they recommend that Prof. Garnett be retained for the present in the chair of English Language and Literature, upon the express stipulation that if he shall occupy said chair at the next annual meeting of the Board, he shall then tender to the Board his resignation of said chair if the Board shall intimate to him that the interest of the University will be promoted by such resignation. The Committee would further rec- ommend that the Board shall not interfere with Prof. Garnett's course of instruction, but that in future, as in the past, he have full liberty of prescribing and teaching such a course, in his department, as in his judgment shall best promote the interest of the University.

The Committee further recommend that the Secretary be instructed to deliver a copy of this report to Prof. James M. Garnett, and to forward to the Governor of Virginia, for his information a copy of the report, together with a copy of the resolution referred to in the communication of Prof. Garnett.

R. L. Parrish

W. C. N. Randolph

W. A. Stuart

A majority of the Committee, viz Messrs Randolph and Conrad, appointed at the previous meeting of the Board to consider and report a Plan for the reorganization of certain schools of the University made a verbal report to the effect that in so far as said Committee were charged with the duty of recommending a Plan for reorganizing the School of English Language & Literature said majority of said Committee approved of the Report submitted by said special Committee on the said communication of Prof. Garnett and asked to be allowed to report their said concurrence in said report in lieu of making any other or formal report on the subject.

Mr E. C. Venable stated that as a member of the said committee for recommending a Plan for the re-organization of certain schools in the University, he did not concur in the views submitted (as hereinabove stated) by the majority of said committee.

Whereupon it was moved that the said Report made by the said special committee on the communication of Prof. Garnett, together with the said report made by the majority of said committee appointed to recommend a plan for the reorganization of certain schools, be received approved and adopted.

A call being made for the taking of the vote of the Board upon said motion by yeas & nays it was so ordered and the said motion was adopted by the following vote:

The following is a copy of the report referred to above as the "report of the majority of the Committee appointed to recommend a plan for the reorganization of certain schools", and adopted as above:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia

Gentlemen,

The Commee charged with the duty of reporting a plan of reorganization of the schools of English & Literature, Modern Languages and Historical Science respectfully submit the following as their report and recommend its adoption.

1\. That the Board after carefully examining the testimonials furnished them by the Professor of Modern Languages and having carefully weighed the testimony in the possession of the Board are glad to inform the Professor that the cause of the complaints made of his school as to its efficiency has been largely removed by the improvement in the school during the past year, due doubtless to the Professor's improved health.

The Board of Visitors however deem it proper to urge upon the Professor the necessity of his making more efficient use of his assistant and to make more useful this necessary aid to his increasing age and infirmities have decided to increase the salary of his assistant, and the Board invite the Professor to nominate an Assistant to the Board for election.

2\. That the Board of Visitors inform the Professor of Historical Science that the complaints as to the efficiency of that school are largely based upon the utter lack of discipline in its class room, and the disorder consequent thereon.

The Board are informed that this disorder is of a character not to be permitted at this institution, and therefore kindly and respectfully admonishes the Professor that discipline in the class room sufficient to insure complete order just be maintained and that instruction given in his school must be thorough and complete.

Signed. W. C. N. Randolph etc.

I approve the above report with regard to schools of Modern Languages and Historical Science. I dissent from the report with regard to School of English Language & Literature not believing remedy adequate.

Signed Edwd C. Venable.

Whereas Prof. M. Schele DeVere has nominated to this Board Mr W. H. Perkinson as assistant in the School of Modern Languages, therefore,

Resolved, that Mr Perkinson be and he is hereby appointed such assistant for one year at the salary of $800.

Resolved, that the resignations of Professors Page and Wheeler be accepted.

The following members of the Board were elected as the Executive Committee:

Messrs Randolph, Chairman, Marye, Venable, Parrish and Perkins.

Prof. C. S. Venable was unanimously reelected Chairman of the Faculty and Prof. Wm M. Thornton unanimously reelected Vice-Chairman of the Faculty.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty give notice in the usual way that the Board will on the 11th of August next proceed to elect a Greek Professor in place of Prof. Wheeler, resigned.

On motion of Mr Marye the following was adopted.

The members of this Board received with sensibility the intelligence of the resignation by the Honorable A. H. H. Stuart of his place as a Visitor and Rector of the University. His long and distinguished services in the performance of high Public Trusts confided to him in the State and Federal Government made his appointment to this Board a most valuable acquisition. His acknowledged talents, ripe experience and wide reputation, added to his constant devotion to the welfare of the University, enabled him to make his earnest labors in her behalf productive of large and lasting benefit. He was instrumental in procuring from enlightened men of wealth most valuable benefactions for the endowment of schools, and in upholding the just claims of the Institution to the high regard of intelligent public opinion throughout the country.

These valuable and fruitful labors were a fitting sequel to his arduous work in the varied and eminent spheres of Public duty which he had filled with honor and ability, and will be remembered with gratitude by every friend of the University.

Those members of this Board who had the honor and pleasure to be personally associated with him in its duties lament his retirement not only as a serious loss to the Institution, but as a sad privation of his agreeable and instructive social intercourse.

The Secretary of this Board is directed to the send a copy of the foregoing to Mr Stuart.

On motion the Rector appointed a committee consisting of Messrs, Venable, Randolph and Perkins to prepare resolutions in respect to the resignations of Profs. Page and Wheeler to be submitted to the Board.

The committee after retiring reported the following resolutions which upon being read were severally unanimously adopted:

Resolved, that this Board in accepting the resignation of Prof. J. R. Page desire to put on record their high appreciation of his character as a man and gentleman and to state that in their opinion as will be evidenced by their contemplated reorganization of the School of Experimental & Practical Agriculture his position as Professor was attended with very serious obstacles to its success.

The Secretary is requested to communicate this resolution to Dr Page.

Resolved, that in accepting the resignation of Prof. John H. Wheeler, the Board of Visitors expresses deep regret in severing his connection with the University of Virginia. For some 5 years past he has filled the Chair of Greek with most commendable ability, not only to the complete satisfaction of this Board, but in such manner as has tended to advance the reputation of the University as made by some of the best Greek scholars of America.

The acceptance of this resignation is the occasion of greater regret because it is the result of physical misfortune to Prof. Wheeler, and the Board expresses the sincerest sympathy for him personally, in his great affliction, and especially recognizes the debt of gratitude due him by reason of the fact that he has been forced to desist while engaged in the work of this University. The Board cherishes the earnest hope that Prof. Wheeler may yet be permitted further to pursue and illumine the paths of his profession.

Resolved that a copy of this resolution be furnished Prof. Wheeler.

On motion the Board adjourned to the 11th of August next.

Jno. L. Marye Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Library Committee respectfully report that they have examined the report of James B. Baker, Librarian; The list of Publications by members of the Faculty from July 1886 to June 1887; and the communication of Moncure D. Conway, Esq, asking permission to copy and use "any manuscripts or papers at the University of Va by or relating to the late Hon. Edmund Randolph" and they recommend that the two resolutions accompanying this report be adopted. (The 2 resolutions here referred to are the last two on the next preceding page of this book)

Your Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses respectfully report.

1\. The recommendation of the Faculty in their report (Sec. 8) respecting the erection of a permanent lecture room for the Professor of Anatomy, is approved. And your Committee recommend an appropriation of $1500. from the general fund for repairs and improvements, to aid in the erection of such a lecture room, and that the Proctor allow the temporary use of $500. of the Insurance money on the contents of the Medical Hall, to aid in the erection of the said lecture room, the estimated cost of which is $2000.

Your committee further recommend that the plan and location proposed by Prof. Towles be adopted.

2\. Your committee recommend that in respect to the application of Dinwiddie, Oberdoffer & Connell, set out in the Proctor's report, no action be taken by the Board of Visitors. Your committee have doubts as to the power of the Board to comply with the request of the applicants.

3\. In regard to the proposition of the Proctor, that the Board of Visitors & the Miller Board, should occupy rooms 50 & 52 on East Range your Committee recommend approval.

4\. The letter of Prof. Venable touching the necessity of a small enclosure around the recently erected monument to the great Jefferson, was referred to your Committee, and we recommend that the Chairman of the Faculty furnish the Proctor with a plan for such enclosure and that the Proctor be directed to carry out the same, & that the expense be defrayed out of funds of the University, not otherwise appropriated.

5\. Respecting the change of the East Entrance to the University grounds, recommended by the Proctor, Your Committee regard the subject as worthy of consideration by a Committee of the whole Board after a careful inspection of the changes proposed on paper, as well as on the ground.

6\. Your Committee herewith return a lengthy communication from Prof. Smith addressed to Dr Randolph by Earnest Bowditch, Esq of Boston.

These communications are in reference to the water supply at the University. The authors of these papers differ as to the remedy for the soils complained of, and your Committee not being experts in such matters, recommend that the subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with discretionary powers to adopt or reject any plan now or hereafter proposed in respect to this matter.

7\. George B. Marshall owning an Estate adjoining the University lands west of the Observatory, and desiring the privilege of passing through the bounds of the University, in hauling firewood to the University and to Charlottesville. We recommend the passage of the following resolution. (For this resolution as adopted see page 82 \[71\] of this book.)

8\. Respecting the application of the Charlottesville Street Railway Company Your Committee approve the resolution proposed by the Executive Committee, refusing permission to said company to enter the University grounds.

The Board met this morning pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses reported the following resolutions for the consideration of the Board, numbered from 1 to 4 inclusive, which upon being read and considered on motion nos. 1, 2 & 4 were adopted and no 3. ordered to lie over for further consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

1\. Resolved, that Prof. F. P. Dunnington be allowed the privilege of using Dormitories No 52 & 50 adjoining his dwelling should he need them, for the accomodation of his guests at the University, during a portion of the ensuing vacation, say July & August. Adopted.

2\. Resolved, that if in the opinion of the Proctor, the finances of the institution will admit of it, and the consent of the Insurances Companies be obtained, that two wooden kitchens, outside of the dormitory buildings on Carr's Hill be erected, and the sum necessary to pay therefor not exceeding $150. each, is hereby appropriated, payable out of funds not otherwise appropriated. Adopted.

3\. Resolved, that when the house now occupied by Prof. Wheeler shall be vacated that the same be assigned to Prof. Venable unless he shall prefer his present location, and that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be assigned to whichever of the two houses may not be occupied by Prof. Venable. Ordered to lie over for consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

4\. Resolved that the house now occupied by the family of Dr Page, may continue to be so occupied, until in the opinion of this Board, it shall become necessary to otherwise occupy it. Adopted.

Having understood that your Hon. body is still unsatisfied as to the reconsideration of the resolution adopted with respect to the School of English, which reconsideration I requested in my statement already submitted, I have the honor to request that the matter be laid over until the next annual meeting of the Board, Within that time your Hon. body can examine more carefully into the objections made as to the conduct of the School, & I can have the opportunity of removing any that in your judgment, may really exist. In the mean time, I should be obliged for any suggestions as to change in the course of instruction, which I shall endeavor to carry out. I have in my statement indicated certain changes in the position of this school with respect to the degrees which would greatly benefit the school, if adopted by your Hon. body. I feel confident, that under such circumstances all objections would be satisfactorily removed.

I desire to say further that if, at the close of that time, these objections on the part of your Hon body still continue, & I am so officially informed, I shall place my resignation at your disposal, for I do not desire to hold a chair in any institution where, the authorities are dissatisfied with my conduct of it.

The Library Committee respectfully report that they have examined the report of James B. Baker, Librarian; The list of Publications by members of the Faculty from July 1886 to June 1887; and the communication of Moncure D. Conway, Esq, asking permission to copy and use "any manuscripts or papers at the University of Va by or relating to the late Hon. Edmund Randolph" and they recommend that the two resolutions accompanying this report be adopted. (The 2 resolutions here referred to are the last two on the next preceding page of this book)

Your Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses respectfully report.

1\. The recommendation of the Faculty in their report (Sec. 8) respecting the erection of a permanent lecture room for the Professor of Anatomy, is approved. And your Committee recommend an appropriation of $1500. from the general fund for repairs and improvements, to aid in the erection of such a lecture room, and that the Proctor allow the temporary use of $500. of the Insurance money on the contents of the Medical Hall, to aid in the erection of the said lecture room, the estimated cost of which is $2000.

Your committee further recommend that the plan and location proposed by Prof. Towles be adopted.

2\. Your committee recommend that in respect to the application of Dinwiddie, Oberdoffer & Connell, set out in the Proctor's report, no action be taken by the Board of Visitors. Your committee have doubts as to the power of the Board to comply with the request of the applicants.

3\. In regard to the proposition of the Proctor, that the Board of Visitors & the Miller Board, should occupy rooms 50 & 52 on East Range your Committee recommend approval.

4\. The letter of Prof. Venable touching the necessity of a small enclosure around the recently erected monument to the great Jefferson, was referred to your Committee, and we recommend that the Chairman of the Faculty furnish the Proctor with a plan for such enclosure and that the Proctor be directed to carry out the same, & that the expense be defrayed out of funds of the University, not otherwise appropriated.

5\. Respecting the change of the East Entrance to the University grounds, recommended by the Proctor, Your Committee regard the subject as worthy of consideration by a Committee of the whole Board after a careful inspection of the changes proposed on paper, as well as on the ground.

6\. Your Committee herewith return a lengthy communication from Prof. Smith addressed to Dr Randolph by Earnest Bowditch, Esq of Boston.

These communications are in reference to the water supply at the University. The authors of these papers differ as to the remedy for the soils complained of, and your Committee not being experts in such matters, recommend that the subject be referred to the Executive Committee, with discretionary powers to adopt or reject any plan now or hereafter proposed in respect to this matter.

7\. George B. Marshall owning an Estate adjoining the University lands west of the Observatory, and desiring the privilege of passing through the bounds of the University, in hauling firewood to the University and to Charlottesville. We recommend the passage of the following resolution. (For this resolution as adopted see page 82 \[71\] of this book.)

8\. Respecting the application of the Charlottesville Street Railway Company Your Committee approve the resolution proposed by the Executive Committee, refusing permission to said company to enter the University grounds.

The Board met this morning pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee on Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses reported the following resolutions for the consideration of the Board, numbered from 1 to 4 inclusive, which upon being read and considered on motion nos. 1, 2 & 4 were adopted and no 3. ordered to lie over for further consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

1\. Resolved, that Prof. F. P. Dunnington be allowed the privilege of using Dormitories No 52 & 50 adjoining his dwelling should he need them, for the accomodation of his guests at the University, during a portion of the ensuing vacation, say July & August. Adopted.

2\. Resolved, that if in the opinion of the Proctor, the finances of the institution will admit of it, and the consent of the Insurances Companies be obtained, that two wooden kitchens, outside of the dormitory buildings on Carr's Hill be erected, and the sum necessary to pay therefor not exceeding $150. each, is hereby appropriated, payable out of funds not otherwise appropriated. Adopted.

3\. Resolved, that when the house now occupied by Prof. Wheeler shall be vacated that the same be assigned to Prof. Venable unless he shall prefer his present location, and that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be assigned to whichever of the two houses may not be occupied by Prof. Venable. Ordered to lie over for consideration at the next meeting of the Board.

4\. Resolved that the house now occupied by the family of Dr Page, may continue to be so occupied, until in the opinion of this Board, it shall become necessary to otherwise occupy it. Adopted.

Having understood that your Hon. body is still unsatisfied as to the reconsideration of the resolution adopted with respect to the School of English, which reconsideration I requested in my statement already submitted, I have the honor to request that the matter be laid over until the next annual meeting of the Board, Within that time your Hon. body can examine more carefully into the objections made as to the conduct of the School, & I can have the opportunity of removing any that in your judgment, may really exist. In the mean time, I should be obliged for any suggestions as to change in the course of instruction, which I shall endeavor to carry out. I have in my statement indicated certain changes in the position of this school with respect to the degrees which would greatly benefit the school, if adopted by your Hon. body. I feel confident, that under such circumstances all objections would be satisfactorily removed.

I desire to say further that if, at the close of that time, these objections on the part of your Hon body still continue, & I am so officially informed, I shall place my resignation at your disposal, for I do not desire to hold a chair in any institution where, the authorities are dissatisfied with my conduct of it.
