---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1891'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Lecture course in Surgery alone

$20.00

Lecture course in Hygiene alone

10.00

Dissection alone without lectures for proficients in Anatomy

10.00

Salaries of 17 Professors of $3000. each=

$51,000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors of $2000. each=

4,000.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Professors of $1500. each=

3,000.00

Salaries of Assistant on Comn & Statute Law

1,000.00

Salaries of in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Math

600.00

Salaries of in Ancient Nat. Phil.

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Chemistry

700.00

Salary of Assistant in Biology

500.00

Salary of Assistant in C. Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Mining Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Pathology

150.00

Salary of Assistant in History

150.00

Salary of Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

Salary of Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

500.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Proctor & Superintendent

2 000.00

Salary of Secretary of Faculty & Clerk of Chairman of Faculty

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Bd of Visitors

225.00

Salary of Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Salary of Day & Night Watch

600.00

Salary of Janitor of Museum

180.00

70505.00

Salary of Janitor of the Medical Hall

135.00

Salary of Janitor of the Rotunda

275.00

Salary of Servant for the Annex

135.00

Salary of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Salary of Laborers

1,000.00

Deficit year 1890-91

1,157.00

Astronomical Observatory

1,610.00

Biological Laboratory

1,000.00

Chemical Laboratory

350.00

Engineering Laboratory

200.00

Natl Philosophy

300.00

Natl History

50.00

Anatomical Material

125.00

Dispensary Material

150.00

4 Scholarships:

2 Agricultural

500.00

1 Birely

300.00

1 Brown

120.00

Insurance

1,915.00

Interest on Sinking Fund

7,220.00

Repairs & Improvements

5,000.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Commutation of rents

1,600.00

Contingent Fund

1,340.00

Catalogue & advertising

1,500.00

Diplomas

500.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Library

820.00

99227 00

Reading Room

100.00

Fuel & Lights

1,000.00

Fuel gas for Laboratories

165.00

Repairs inside of Gymnasium

50.00

Physical Apparatus School of N. P.

250.00

Salary of Adjunct Profr of Engineering

1,500.00

$101,292.00

Pavement from Elsom Hotel to Chapel (not exceeding)

$100.00

Physical Apparatus, School of Nat. Philos.

250.00

Chemical Chart School of G. & I. Chemistry

30.00

Surgical Instruments School of P. & S.

150.00

Microscope School of A. Chem.

40.00

Anatomical Material A. & Med.

50.00

Instruments & Material Med. & Obstet.

100.00

Total Contingent

$720.00

Instructor in Gymnastics such a sum as will pay him $700.00 Brought down

101,292.

$102,012.00

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia June 29th 1891.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector and Messrs Gordon, McCabe, Parrisn, Watts, McCormick, Patteson and Kean.

A letter was read from Judge Bolling to the Rector stating that he would be prevented from attending the meeting by his professional engagements in the Virginia Court of Appeals.

Reports received & other papers:

Report of the Executive Committee

The Faculty report

The Proctor's report

Report of the Commr of Accounts

Report of the Librarian

Report of the Profr Stone

Report of the Special Committee of the Faculty

in relation to Dr Leverson's application.

application of Profr Garnett for improvements to his pavilion.

application of Mr Bright in regard to his matriculation fees.

application of Mr Lightfoot for relief from payment of University fees.

Petition of the Washington Society for further time on its indebtedness to the University for a loan.

application of Mrs Wallace to be allowed to run sewer pipes from her lot through the University land.

Application of Dr W. C. Dabney for renewal of his leave to practice medicine.

Communication from Eugene C. Massie complaining of damage to his property from University sewerage.

Communication from Profr Minor for additional office room.

Application from the Jefferson & Washington Societies for pecuniary aid.

Petition of Geo B. Marshall for right of way through the University grounds.

Application of Mr Mansfield to have refunded to Mr Funke fees paid by him as student.

The following persons are applicants for the University boarding house now occupied by Mr T. W. Elsom and whose written applications are before the Board, viz.

T. W. Elsom, Mrs Bryant, Mrs Gunther, Mrs Crockford, Mrs Edmunds & Mr Beattie.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee presented and read to the Board the annual report of the Committee which report was approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

Report of the Executive Committee to the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee submits the following report of their proceedings since the last annual meeting of the Board.

At a meeting held on the 22d of October 1890, on the recommendation of the Faculty the following fees in the optional two years course in medicine were established and ordered to be inserted in the forthcoming catalogue:

At the same meeting the application of Mr C. S. Purdy to attend the course of medicine in the University without payment of fees was refused.

The application of Mr J. E. Hubble to reenter the University on the 1st of April 1891 and complete the examinations for his degree in medicine without payment of fees, was granted.

The guarantee of the salary of $700. heretofore given to Mr Z. W. Coombs late instructor in Physical Culture was continued to his successor, J. S. Hutchcock.

The recommendation of the Faculty as to the change in the law requiring the Boarding house keepers to furnish bedding & furniture to the students living in the University was postponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Mr R. S. B. Smith was appointed at the last regular meeting of the Board of Visitors to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1890-91 on the recommendation of the Executrix of Mrs Birely under the belief that he was eligible under the provisions of the will of the testatrix. A copy of the will not being before the Board at the time of the appointment. Upon an inspection of the will however which required the young man appointed to be a resident of Frederick city or of Frederick County Maryland, Mr Smith not being a citizen of either place, on the recommendation of Mr Benjamin F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, W. R. Delashmutt of Frederick City, Maryland was appointed to sd scholarship. And the Proctor out of the general funds of the University was directed to credit an amount equal to the income of the Birely fund to the expense account of said W. R. Delashmutt for the Session of 1890-91. The income from said fund for the year having already been appropriated under the order of the Board to R. S. B. Smith who had matriculated before the error was discovered.

At at meeting of the Committee held on the 24th day of October 1890 the Proctor was directed to furnish the new chapel with fuel & lights from the time the building was turned over to the authorities of the University, viz since June last.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 18th of November 1890 a proposition from the firm of \[T. &\]? J. W. Johnson for the exchange with the University of Virginia for some of the broken sets of law books for certain books which were needed by the University to fill up some sets of reports already in the library. Upon the recommendation of the law professors the proposition was accepted and the exchange proposed directed to be made.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 3d of December 1890 upon information received that W. R. Delashmutt who had been appointed to the Birely Scholarship at a former meeting had withdrawn from the University, on the recommendation of Mr Benj. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, Mr John S. Newman of Frederick County, Maryland was appointed to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91 and the Proctor was directed to apply so much of the yearly income of the Birely fund which had not been expended for the charges & Expenses of said Delashmutt to the charges & expenses at the University of said John S. Newman for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91.

The Committee being informed that the Boarding house keepers in the University preferred to collect the board of the students directly and not through the Proctor as heretofore, a resolution authorizing them so to do was adopted.

The report of the Faculty and the Proctor's report were next taken up and read to the Board and the matters presented by each for the consideration and action of the Board referred to the appropriate Committees for report, with the exception of that portion of the Faculty Report, touching modifications in the Medical Department, which was considered by the Board without being referred.

On motion the following resolution was adopted= Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty be adopted, that a certificate of proficiency be given to those students of medicine who have graduated in General Chemistry upon the payment of a deposit fee of $250 to be credited upon the general diploma fee in Pharmacy or Medicine.

On motion paragraph 6 of the Faculty report touching the Water Supply was referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings for report and Mr Parrish added to the Committee temporarily to fill the place of Judge Bolling the absent member of the Committee.

On motion the following resolution was adopted touching the entitled degrees in Biology & Agriculture.

Resolved, that the entitled degrees connected with the School of Biology & Agriculture shall be conferred on the following conditions, to wit:

1st The degree of proficient in Biology shall be conferred on any student who has passed the required examinations in Botany and either Zoology or Comparative Anatomy at the choice of the student.

2nd That the degree of graduate in Biology be conferred upon any student who passes a satisfactory Examination in Botany, Zoology and Comparative Anatomy.

3d That the degree of graduate in Agriculture be conferred on any student who passes a satisfactory examination in Botany, Zoology, and Practical Biology and Agriculture.

On motion of Mr McCabe the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that the recommendation of the Faculty in regard to the change from the present system of rents for the 2 University Hotels to a fixed rent of $300. for each Hotel is approved and adopted.

Resolved 2d that the Hotel Keeper shall not be permitted to advance the price of board for any session after the publication of the Catalogue of the previous session without the consent of the Executive Committee.

The following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, that until further ordered, that for this & future celebrations, that the Proctor be authorized and directed to employ a suitable band to furnish music for the final celebrations of the university which shall embrace the celebrations of the Literary Societies, the exercises of the final day and the dances at the morning Germans and the final ball, upon a compensation to be agreed upon by the Proctor.

The Chairman of the Committee on the Conduct of Schools and Examination of Students submitted the report of the Committee which was read and considered and the report, & its recommendations approved and adopted by a unanimous vote and ordered to be spread upon the records.

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee on "The Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students" respectfully submits the following Report

First. After maturely considering the subject of the Academic degrees, we recommend as follows

That the B. A. degree shall be required of all students desirous of proceeding to M. A.

This B. A. degree, as at present constituted, embraces the subjects deemed essential as the basis of a sound & liberal education.

Any student having attained this B. A. degree & desirous of proceeding further to the higher (M. A.) degree shall pursue an advanced course of University instruction in four schools, this course to embrace, so far as possible, cognate subjects.

To illustrate.

(a) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Letters, he shall pursue a course far more advanced and special than that required for the B. A. degree in

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Moral Philosophy or History.

4 One Teutonic, &

One Romance Language.

(b) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Science, he shall pursue advanced & special courses of instruction in

1\. Mathematics.

2\. Natural Philosophy.

3\. Applied Chemistry.

4\. Natural History & Biology, or Mineralogy & Geology.

(c) If a student desires to proceed M. A. in Philosophy (partly literary & partly scientific), he shall pursue advanced and special courses in

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Moral Philosophy

or

One Teutonic &

One Romance Language.

4\. Mathemtics, or Natural Philosophy

or Mathematics & Astronomy.

The combinations are multitudinous and these groups are merely given by way of illustration. The purpose is to give the widest scope to the elective system, and a student make elect out of the whole cycle of Academic University studies any combination of four separate schools for this advanced course, provided that such combinations shall be approved by the Faculty.

Any student having given satisfactory evidence to his professors that he has thoroughly mastered the subjects embraced in the group of advanced studies elected by him & approved by the Faculty, shall receive diplomas in each school, and graduated "Master of Arts of the University of Virginia". He shall also receive a diploma as Master of Arts on payment of the fee required for the present M. A. degree.

The details of this modification of the present M. A. degree can easily be worked out in conference with a Committee from the Faculty & it is not designed that the modification shall go into effect until the session of '92-'93.

In order to carry out the recommendations of this Report, Your Committee suggests the adoption by the Board of Visitors of the following Resolutions

Resolved.

1st That in order to attain the M. A. degree, it shall be necessary for every applicant to have first taken the B. A. degree. After taking that degree, he shall take an advanced course of University instruction in some four schools.

These four schools shall embrace

1st

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek

3\. One Teutonic &

One Romance Language.

4\. Moral Philosophy or History.

or

2nd

1\. Mathematics.

2\. Natural Philosophy.

3\. Applied Chemistry.

4\. Natural History & Biology,

or Mineralogy & Geology.

or 3d

1\. Latin.

2\. Greek.

3\. Moral Philosophy

or

One Teutonic &

One Romance Language.

4\. Mathematics

or

Natural Philosophy

or Mathematics & Astronomy

or

The Faculty may in lieu of any of these four schools make a combination of any four schools in the Academic Department, which in their judgment shall be the full equivalent of any of the groups named above.

Any student having given satisfactory evidence to his professors that he has thoroughly mastered the subjects embraced in one of these groups (or its equivalent) shall be graduated "Master of Arts of the University" and receive the diploma for his degree on payment of the fee required.

Second. The recommendation of the Faculty for the appointment of an additional instructor in Engineering at a salary of $500. per annum and of an Adjunct Professor of Applied Mathematics at a salary of $1500. per annum, in the School of Engineering is approved, provided the finances of the University allow such appointments.

Third. Your Committee respectfully suggests that the question of establishing "fellowships" in the various departments of the University, in lieu of the present system of "Assistants", be referred back to the Committee on Conduct of Schools in order that the Committee may have the requisite time to examine into the system of fellowships as existing in the great Universities at home and abroad & report a matured scheme at the next meeting of the Board. All of which is respectfully submitted.

W. Gordon McCabe, Chairman.

On motion the Board proceeded to consider the recommendations of the report of the Faculty touching Modifications in the Medical Department set forth in the report to the present annual meeting of the Board

In deference to the wish of the Medical Committee expressed in the report that they be allowed, in view of the importance of the subject under consideration, to present it in person before the Board, and the Board being desirous to hear such presentation, the Committee, consisting of Profs Mallet, Dabney, Towles and Barringer were present by invitation from the Board and were heard upon the subject, severally. After which the Committee having retired the Board proceeded with the consideration and discussion of the subject, which was continued at considerable length.

The following resolutions were then offered by Mr Parrish: IResolved

I. That the Medical Course for the degree of Doctor of Medicine in the University be arranged for a two years course as follows:

1st Session: Anatomy Chemistry, Physiology, Materia Medica and Bacteriology.

2nd Session: Surgery, Practice of Medicine, Obstetrics, Hygiene and Medical Jurisprudence.

This paragraph marked out. II That any student who shall, at the beginning of a session, present satisfactory evidence that he has already attended one course of lectures of nine months or

This paragraph marked out.

II. That the Medical Faculty be authorized to make such changes in the arrangement of the subjects required in the course as they may deem proper to secure the best instruction in the Medical Department.

III. That any student who shall, at the beginning of a session, present satisfactory evidence that he has already attended one course of lectures of nine months or two courses of less than nine months each at a recognized and reputable school of Medicine, be allowed to take the course of the second year and present himself for examination on the subjects of the first year either in the regular course with the rest of the class or at the beginning of the session.

Dr Randolph (Mr McCabe in the chair) offered the following as a substitute for Mr Parrish's 3d resolution.

Resolved that any student who shall at the beginning of the session, present satisfactory evidence that he has acquired sufficient information to enable him to present himself and pass an examination on the subjects of the first year either in the regular course with the rest of the class or at the beginning of the session wether that information has been acquired in any school or otherwise, be allowed to take the course of the second year and to present himself for examination on the subjects of the first year either in the regular course with the rest of the class or at the beginning of the session.

Mr Patteson moved as a substitute for Dr Randolph's substitute the following resolution.

Resolved that the principle which has hitherto characterized the University of Virginia which is opposed to a curriculum in principle and that in the Medical Department the test of excellence shall be the passing of the examinations by the student.

And that no time shall be imposed upon any student requiring more than one years time as an absolute prerequisite in order to get a diploma either in law or medicine, the object of this University being to grant a diploma for merit without regard to time except one session, the diploma being granted on the ability of the student to pass the proper examination.

A vote was first taken upon Mr Patteson's substitute and resulted, by a rising vote which was called for, of two in favor of the substitute, viz Messrs Randolph and Patteson, and six against it. Mr Patteson's substitute having been defeated a voted was then taken upon Dr Randolph's substitute in the same manner and resulted in its defeat of three in its favor viz Messrs Randolph, Patteson and Gordon and five against it.

The vote upon the original resolutions of Mr Parrish being now in order, on the motion of Dr Randolph it was decided to divide the resolutions so as to vote first upon resolutions one and two together and then upon the third resolution. The votes were so taken and resulted in the adoption of all three of the resolutions by votes of six in favor and two against Dr Randolph & Mr Patteson in each case voting in the negative and desired to be so recorded.

Mr Patteson then submitted the following as his protest and asked that the same be entered of record which was ordered:

"Mr Camm Patteson votes against each resolution because according to plain principles of what is known as common sense in the opinion of this voter they each and all violate the principles upon which this University was founded".

The Rector resumed the Chair.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow at 10 A. M.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr McCabe who was excused & left for his home.

The following papers were handed in:

Application of Profr Towles for leave of absence from the 15th of March to April 7th 1892.

Special report from the school of applied Mathematics.

Supplementary report from the Faculty.

Application of Mr J. T. Jameson for permission to examine the Arthur Lee papers & other manuscripts of that period in the Library.

A communication from the Faculty nominating David K. Butler for appointment to the Miller Scholarship for two years.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, that John B. Minor, Jr, be continued as instructor of law for the session 1891-92 and that his salary be fixed at one thousand dollars. Unanimously adopted.

Resolved, that the Faculty be authorized to grant a diploma for the requisite attainment in the subject of Celestial Mechanics.

Resolved, that David K. Butler be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for two years in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.

The following report from the Faculty in reference to Dr M. R. Leverson's application having been read and considered by the Board on motion it was

Resolved that the report be received and adopted and that the Secretary be directed to notify Dr Leverson of the action of the Board.

The Committee of the Faculty to which was referred the Resolutions of the Board of Visitors touching the application of Dr Leverson to be permitted to deliver in the University, a course of lectures on "the Science of Legislation", naving carefully considered the subject submit the following report

It seems to the Committee that the need at present, for such a course of lectures is not as urgent as for instruction in some other subjects, and that it is not desirable, in the existing condition of the University further to multiply the Departments therein.

The introduction of a subject so wide, so various, and so undetermined as the Science of legislation, would probably demand a rearrangement of several existing Departments, and that might involve consequences more far-reaching than can be foreseen.

And lastly if it should appear to be expedient to introduce such a subject of instruction, the principles to be discussed would involve topics of such delicacy and importance that the University ought not to commit itself to any course of instruction thereupon, or to extend its sanction thereto, until the Board has had ample opportunity to inquire into the fitness in all respects, of the proposed instructor, and by comparison to select the best man for the position.

The Committee thereupon recommend that the Faculty report to the Board that they cannot approve of Dr Leverson's application.

Resolved that room on East Lawn adjoining the present office of Profr Minor be added to said office, and that the Proctor be authorized to lower the floor of said room & to make such alterations as may be necessary to accommodate the books of Profr Minor. The cost not to exceed $150. The said Room to be in lieu of the room now occupied by John B. Minor, Jr, instructor in Law.

Resolved, that the application of Dr Paul B. Barringer for the use of two rooms on the East Range adjoining his residence be granted him, for the purpose of his eye work among the students.

Resolved

I. That the Faculty be authorized to confer a diploma of graduation upon the course in General Chemistry for the degree of Doctor of Medicine, or graduate in Pharmacy, and to charge the same fee as for the diplomas in the B. A. degree.

II.That the Faculty be authorized to confer the degree of Mechanical Engineer on students who have been graduated in Mathematics, General and Industrial Chemistry and General Physics, Electricity and Magnetism.

III.That from and after the session of 1891-92 each session shall commence on September 15th of each year and terminate on the Wednesday before the 19th of June following.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools & the Examination of Students, to which was referred the respective applications of Professor W. C. Dabney, Perkinson & Towles, through its acting Chairman, Mr Parrish, reported the following three resolutions with the recommendation that they be approved and adopted.

Resolved that Dr W. C. Dabney be allowed to practice his profession outside of the precincts of the University, provided that he shall not by his practice interfere with the duties of his chair.

Resolved that Profr W. H. Perkinson be allowed to devote two hours each week during the next session to lectures outside of the University, provided that said lectures shall not interfere with the duties of his chair.

Resolved that Dr W. B. Towles be allowed a leave of absence from March 15th 1892 to April 7th 1892, provided that he shall so arrange his absence as not to interfere with the duties of his chair.

On motion it was ordered that the three resolutions be voted upon separately which was done and resulted in the adoption of all three. Dr Randolph alone voting in the negative upon each and asked to be so recorded.

On motion the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o clock.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr Kean who was confined to his room by indisposition.

The following resolutions were adopted

Resolved, that the application of Professor James M. Garnett relative to Pavilion No. 3 on West Lawn be referred to the Proctor who is directed to confer with the Board of Health and make the improvement in the event, that the said Board deem it absolutely essential and necessary for the health of the occupants of the pavilion.

Resolved, that the application of H. R. Bright that his fees paid during the session of 1890-91 be credited to him for the session of 1891-92 be granted.

Resolved, that the nomination of Mr. J. N. Newman by Mr B. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1891-92 be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the application of Mr J. H. Hopkinson for return of fees paid by him be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the request of J. A. Lightfoot for the release of his indebteoness to the University be granted and that the debt be hereby released.

Resolved that the request of the Washington Literary Society for the postponement of their debt to the University be granted, and that the time for payment be extended for one year with the request that the Society ask no further extension.

Resolved that in future the Boarding House Keepers be required to pay an annual rent of three hundred dollars each for their respective houses, payable one half in advance and the residue on February first, and that said Boarding House Keepers make their own contracts with students and collect their board bills direct from their boarders.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that additional openings be made in the Public Hall so as to give better means of entrance and exit be referred to to the Proctor with the request that he report upon the same and the cost thereof to the Executive Committee to which the matter is hereby referred for such action as to said Committee may seem proper.

Resolved that in the opinion of the Board no action is necessary on the petition of Geo B. Marshall asking a legal right to the road which he is now using by permission of the Board, the Board having no right to grant the prayer of the petition, and Mr Marshall having practically all that seems necessary in the premises.

In the matter of an increased water supply for the University,

Resolved that the Executive Committee and the Proctor be authorized to confer with the authorities of the city of Charlottesville on the subject and to make such an arrangement as they can to effect the purpose consistent with the financial condition of the University.

Resolved that the permission be granted Mrs Mary G. Wallace to lay her sewer pipe through the land of the University by the route designated in her petition, provided that said sewer shall be properly constructed and that the privilege hereby granted be subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that the matter of revision of the laws of the University be referred to a special Committee of six to be appointed by the Rector with the power to sit in vacation and report to the next meeting the result of their deliberations.

The Rector appointed the following Visitors as the Committee under the foregoing resolution:

Messrs Kean, Parrish, McCormick, Watts, Gordon and Patteson.

Resolved that the communication of Mr Eugene C. Massie be referred to the Executive Committee for such action as it may deem proper.

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized to invite Dr S. Rolfe Millar to deliver a course of gratuitous lectures upon some subject to be agreed upon in a conference between the Faculty and Dr Millar.

Resolved, that Mason Gordon, W. C. N. Randolph, R. G. H. Kean, Legh R. Watts and R. L. Parrish be and are hereby appointed the Executive Committee for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr Charles B. Ligerfoos \[?\] be and is hereby elected assistant instructor of Biology & Agriculture.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to pay the sum of one hundred and forty two dollars & fifty cents to W. D. Dabney in full satisfaction of the balance due him for codifying the laws of the University and the amount advanced by him to pay for the type written copies of said laws.

Resolved that F. W. Page be hereby elected Librarian of the University for one year at a salary of Eight hundred dollars and that the Librarian be required to make a complete catalogue of the books in the Library.

Resolved that James B. Baker be hereby elected Secretary of the Faculty and Clerk of the Chairman of the Faculty for one year, at a salary of Eight hundred dollars.

Resolved that Dr Paul B. Barringer be elected Professor of Physiology and Surgery in the University of Virginia.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

"Resolved that the Board of Visitors of the University of Va is hereby respectfully requested to furnish (at its earliest convenience) to this Board a statement of the amount of Fees received from students in the Agricultural Department." (No action was taken by the Board in reference to the above.)

Resolved, that Mr W. H. Echols be and he is hereby elected Adjunct professor in the School of Applied Mathematics for one year.

Resolved that Profr Wm M. Thornton be elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, and the Board, grateful for his past efficient services in the discharge of the duties of that office, earnestly request him to accept it again.

The Finance Committee submitted the following report which was read and considered and on motion the same, together its recommendations, was approved and adopted and ordered to be recorded:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia. Your Committee on Finance beg leave to submit the following report. We recommend that the funds under the control of the Board for the session 1891-92— be appropriated as follows, to wit:

We would also recommend that should the income justify it, the following appropriations be authorized:

To change exit from Public Hall referred to Report to the Executive Committee.

It will appear from the above that the deficit for the year 1890-91 is $1,157.00.

The estimated receipts for the coming on the basis of 440 students will be $102,436.00.

The Committee on Health, Sewerage & Drainage submitted the following report which was read and on motion the same was ordered to be laid on the table for future consideration:

To the Honorable Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee begs leave to report that the sanitary regulations of the University of Virginia have been very effectively put in practice and the health of the residents has been good but that there is one circumstance deserving prompt and serious consideration and it is the water supply. While there is no present danger of great importance yet it is a fact that the consumption of water is increasing and the supply is decreasing. The water works owned in common by the University of Virginia and the City of Charlottesville do not afford an ample supply for either. This state of things may easily lead to deleterious results so far as the health of the students and residents of the University is concerned. Hence this Committee makes the following alternative recommendations: 1st We recommend that a new main be made belonging to the University alone at the cost of the "Fayerweather Fund", or 2nd That the present main be bought from the City of Charlottesville if it can be done at a reasonable price, to be the exclusive property of the University of Virginia, or 3d That in case our finances will not permit the two foregoing schemes then it is suggested that the University Reservoir be kept filled for use in case of emergency. Your Committee deems it necessary for some action to be taken in reference to the water supply. As to the sewerage it is recommended that when our finances will permit that a general sewerage main be connected with the main of the City of Charlottesville when one is built. This will be essential to avoid litigation and is undoubtedly important.

Camm Patteson, Chairman etc.

July 1st 1891.

Legh R. Watts.

On motion the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Kean, Gordon, Watts, McCormick & Patteson.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved that the application of Profr Tuttle to make his a compulsory two years course be posponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved that the application of Prof Smith to employ two students as his assistants instead of one as at present, the salary as at present paid to one to be divided between the two, be referred to the Executive Committee for proper action.

Resolved that the Board hereafter meet on the day of the Final Celebration and that in order to attest the respect of the Board for the celebrations of the Literary Societies, the Executive Committee or as many as can, be requested to attend their celebrations as the representatives of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Lecture course in Surgery alone

$20.00

Lecture course in Hygiene alone

10.00

Dissection alone without lectures for proficients in Anatomy

10.00

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia June 29th 1891.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector and Messrs Gordon, McCabe, Parrisn, Watts, McCormick, Patteson and Kean.

A letter was read from Judge Bolling to the Rector stating that he would be prevented from attending the meeting by his professional engagements in the Virginia Court of Appeals.

Reports received & other papers:

Report of the Executive Committee

The Faculty report

The Proctor's report

Report of the Commr of Accounts

Report of the Librarian

Report of the Profr Stone

Report of the Special Committee of the Faculty

in relation to Dr Leverson's application.

application of Profr Garnett for improvements to his pavilion.

application of Mr Bright in regard to his matriculation fees.

application of Mr Lightfoot for relief from payment of University fees.

Petition of the Washington Society for further time on its indebtedness to the University for a loan.

application of Mrs Wallace to be allowed to run sewer pipes from her lot through the University land.

Application of Dr W. C. Dabney for renewal of his leave to practice medicine.

Communication from Eugene C. Massie complaining of damage to his property from University sewerage.

Communication from Profr Minor for additional office room.

Application from the Jefferson & Washington Societies for pecuniary aid.

Petition of Geo B. Marshall for right of way through the University grounds.

Application of Mr Mansfield to have refunded to Mr Funke fees paid by him as student.

The following persons are applicants for the University boarding house now occupied by Mr T. W. Elsom and whose written applications are before the Board, viz.

T. W. Elsom, Mrs Bryant, Mrs Gunther, Mrs Crockford, Mrs Edmunds & Mr Beattie.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee presented and read to the Board the annual report of the Committee which report was approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

Report of the Executive Committee to the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee submits the following report of their proceedings since the last annual meeting of the Board.

At a meeting held on the 22d of October 1890, on the recommendation of the Faculty the following fees in the optional two years course in medicine were established and ordered to be inserted in the forthcoming catalogue:

At the same meeting the application of Mr C. S. Purdy to attend the course of medicine in the University without payment of fees was refused.

The application of Mr J. E. Hubble to reenter the University on the 1st of April 1891 and complete the examinations for his degree in medicine without payment of fees, was granted.

The guarantee of the salary of $700. heretofore given to Mr Z. W. Coombs late instructor in Physical Culture was continued to his successor, J. S. Hutchcock.

The recommendation of the Faculty as to the change in the law requiring the Boarding house keepers to furnish bedding & furniture to the students living in the University was postponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Mr R. S. B. Smith was appointed at the last regular meeting of the Board of Visitors to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1890-91 on the recommendation of the Executrix of Mrs Birely under the belief that he was eligible under the provisions of the will of the testatrix. A copy of the will not being before the Board at the time of the appointment. Upon an inspection of the will however which required the young man appointed to be a resident of Frederick city or of Frederick County Maryland, Mr Smith not being a citizen of either place, on the recommendation of Mr Benjamin F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, W. R. Delashmutt of Frederick City, Maryland was appointed to sd scholarship. And the Proctor out of the general funds of the University was directed to credit an amount equal to the income of the Birely fund to the expense account of said W. R. Delashmutt for the Session of 1890-91. The income from said fund for the year having already been appropriated under the order of the Board to R. S. B. Smith who had matriculated before the error was discovered.

At at meeting of the Committee held on the 24th day of October 1890 the Proctor was directed to furnish the new chapel with fuel & lights from the time the building was turned over to the authorities of the University, viz since June last.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 18th of November 1890 a proposition from the firm of \[T. &\]? J. W. Johnson for the exchange with the University of Virginia for some of the broken sets of law books for certain books which were needed by the University to fill up some sets of reports already in the library. Upon the recommendation of the law professors the proposition was accepted and the exchange proposed directed to be made.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 3d of December 1890 upon information received that W. R. Delashmutt who had been appointed to the Birely Scholarship at a former meeting had withdrawn from the University, on the recommendation of Mr Benj. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, Mr John S. Newman of Frederick County, Maryland was appointed to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91 and the Proctor was directed to apply so much of the yearly income of the Birely fund which had not been expended for the charges & Expenses of said Delashmutt to the charges & expenses at the University of said John S. Newman for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91.

The Committee being informed that the Boarding house keepers in the University preferred to collect the board of the students directly and not through the Proctor as heretofore, a resolution authorizing them so to do was adopted.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr McCabe who was excused & left for his home.

The following papers were handed in:

Application of Profr Towles for leave of absence from the 15th of March to April 7th 1892.

Special report from the school of applied Mathematics.

Supplementary report from the Faculty.

Application of Mr J. T. Jameson for permission to examine the Arthur Lee papers & other manuscripts of that period in the Library.

A communication from the Faculty nominating David K. Butler for appointment to the Miller Scholarship for two years.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, that John B. Minor, Jr, be continued as instructor of law for the session 1891-92 and that his salary be fixed at one thousand dollars. Unanimously adopted.

Resolved, that the Faculty be authorized to grant a diploma for the requisite attainment in the subject of Celestial Mechanics.

Resolved, that David K. Butler be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for two years in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.

The following report from the Faculty in reference to Dr M. R. Leverson's application having been read and considered by the Board on motion it was

Resolved that the report be received and adopted and that the Secretary be directed to notify Dr Leverson of the action of the Board.

The Committee of the Faculty to which was referred the Resolutions of the Board of Visitors touching the application of Dr Leverson to be permitted to deliver in the University, a course of lectures on "the Science of Legislation", naving carefully considered the subject submit the following report

It seems to the Committee that the need at present, for such a course of lectures is not as urgent as for instruction in some other subjects, and that it is not desirable, in the existing condition of the University further to multiply the Departments therein.

The introduction of a subject so wide, so various, and so undetermined as the Science of legislation, would probably demand a rearrangement of several existing Departments, and that might involve consequences more far-reaching than can be foreseen.

And lastly if it should appear to be expedient to introduce such a subject of instruction, the principles to be discussed would involve topics of such delicacy and importance that the University ought not to commit itself to any course of instruction thereupon, or to extend its sanction thereto, until the Board has had ample opportunity to inquire into the fitness in all respects, of the proposed instructor, and by comparison to select the best man for the position.

The Committee thereupon recommend that the Faculty report to the Board that they cannot approve of Dr Leverson's application.

Salaries of 17 Professors of $3000. each=

$51,000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors of $2000. each=

4,000.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Professors of $1500. each=

3,000.00

Salaries of Assistant on Comn & Statute Law

1,000.00

Salaries of in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Math

600.00

Salaries of in Ancient Nat. Phil.

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Chemistry

700.00

Salary of Assistant in Biology

500.00

Salary of Assistant in C. Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Mining Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Pathology

150.00

Salary of Assistant in History

150.00

Salary of Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

Salary of Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

500.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Proctor & Superintendent

2 000.00

Salary of Secretary of Faculty & Clerk of Chairman of Faculty

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Bd of Visitors

225.00

Salary of Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Salary of Day & Night Watch

600.00

Salary of Janitor of Museum

180.00

70505.00

Salary of Janitor of the Medical Hall

135.00

Salary of Janitor of the Rotunda

275.00

Salary of Servant for the Annex

135.00

Salary of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Salary of Laborers

1,000.00

Deficit year 1890-91

1,157.00

Astronomical Observatory

1,610.00

Biological Laboratory

1,000.00

Chemical Laboratory

350.00

Engineering Laboratory

200.00

Natl Philosophy

300.00

Natl History

50.00

Anatomical Material

125.00

Dispensary Material

150.00

4 Scholarships:

2 Agricultural

500.00

1 Birely

300.00

1 Brown

120.00

Insurance

1,915.00

Interest on Sinking Fund

7,220.00

Repairs & Improvements

5,000.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Commutation of rents

1,600.00

Contingent Fund

1,340.00

Catalogue & advertising

1,500.00

Diplomas

500.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Library

820.00

99227 00

Reading Room

100.00

Fuel & Lights

1,000.00

Fuel gas for Laboratories

165.00

Repairs inside of Gymnasium

50.00

Physical Apparatus School of N. P.

250.00

Salary of Adjunct Profr of Engineering

1,500.00

$101,292.00

Pavement from Elsom Hotel to Chapel (not exceeding)

$100.00

Physical Apparatus, School of Nat. Philos.

250.00

Chemical Chart School of G. & I. Chemistry

30.00

Surgical Instruments School of P. & S.

150.00

Microscope School of A. Chem.

40.00

Anatomical Material A. & Med.

50.00

Instruments & Material Med. & Obstet.

100.00

Total Contingent

$720.00

Instructor in Gymnastics such a sum as will pay him $700.00 Brought down

101,292.

$102,012.00

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr Kean who was confined to his room by indisposition.

The following resolutions were adopted

Resolved, that the application of Professor James M. Garnett relative to Pavilion No. 3 on West Lawn be referred to the Proctor who is directed to confer with the Board of Health and make the improvement in the event, that the said Board deem it absolutely essential and necessary for the health of the occupants of the pavilion.

Resolved, that the application of H. R. Bright that his fees paid during the session of 1890-91 be credited to him for the session of 1891-92 be granted.

Resolved, that the nomination of Mr. J. N. Newman by Mr B. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1891-92 be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the application of Mr J. H. Hopkinson for return of fees paid by him be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the request of J. A. Lightfoot for the release of his indebteoness to the University be granted and that the debt be hereby released.

Resolved that the request of the Washington Literary Society for the postponement of their debt to the University be granted, and that the time for payment be extended for one year with the request that the Society ask no further extension.

Resolved that in future the Boarding House Keepers be required to pay an annual rent of three hundred dollars each for their respective houses, payable one half in advance and the residue on February first, and that said Boarding House Keepers make their own contracts with students and collect their board bills direct from their boarders.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that additional openings be made in the Public Hall so as to give better means of entrance and exit be referred to to the Proctor with the request that he report upon the same and the cost thereof to the Executive Committee to which the matter is hereby referred for such action as to said Committee may seem proper.

Resolved that in the opinion of the Board no action is necessary on the petition of Geo B. Marshall asking a legal right to the road which he is now using by permission of the Board, the Board having no right to grant the prayer of the petition, and Mr Marshall having practically all that seems necessary in the premises.

In the matter of an increased water supply for the University,

Resolved that the Executive Committee and the Proctor be authorized to confer with the authorities of the city of Charlottesville on the subject and to make such an arrangement as they can to effect the purpose consistent with the financial condition of the University.

Resolved that the permission be granted Mrs Mary G. Wallace to lay her sewer pipe through the land of the University by the route designated in her petition, provided that said sewer shall be properly constructed and that the privilege hereby granted be subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that the matter of revision of the laws of the University be referred to a special Committee of six to be appointed by the Rector with the power to sit in vacation and report to the next meeting the result of their deliberations.

The Rector appointed the following Visitors as the Committee under the foregoing resolution:

Messrs Kean, Parrish, McCormick, Watts, Gordon and Patteson.

Resolved that the communication of Mr Eugene C. Massie be referred to the Executive Committee for such action as it may deem proper.

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized to invite Dr S. Rolfe Millar to deliver a course of gratuitous lectures upon some subject to be agreed upon in a conference between the Faculty and Dr Millar.

Resolved, that Mason Gordon, W. C. N. Randolph, R. G. H. Kean, Legh R. Watts and R. L. Parrish be and are hereby appointed the Executive Committee for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr Charles B. Ligerfoos \[?\] be and is hereby elected assistant instructor of Biology & Agriculture.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to pay the sum of one hundred and forty two dollars & fifty cents to W. D. Dabney in full satisfaction of the balance due him for codifying the laws of the University and the amount advanced by him to pay for the type written copies of said laws.

Resolved that F. W. Page be hereby elected Librarian of the University for one year at a salary of Eight hundred dollars and that the Librarian be required to make a complete catalogue of the books in the Library.

Resolved that James B. Baker be hereby elected Secretary of the Faculty and Clerk of the Chairman of the Faculty for one year, at a salary of Eight hundred dollars.

Resolved that Dr Paul B. Barringer be elected Professor of Physiology and Surgery in the University of Virginia.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

"Resolved that the Board of Visitors of the University of Va is hereby respectfully requested to furnish (at its earliest convenience) to this Board a statement of the amount of Fees received from students in the Agricultural Department." (No action was taken by the Board in reference to the above.)

Resolved, that Mr W. H. Echols be and he is hereby elected Adjunct professor in the School of Applied Mathematics for one year.

Resolved that Profr Wm M. Thornton be elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, and the Board, grateful for his past efficient services in the discharge of the duties of that office, earnestly request him to accept it again.

The Finance Committee submitted the following report which was read and considered and on motion the same, together its recommendations, was approved and adopted and ordered to be recorded:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia. Your Committee on Finance beg leave to submit the following report. We recommend that the funds under the control of the Board for the session 1891-92— be appropriated as follows, to wit:

We would also recommend that should the income justify it, the following appropriations be authorized:

To change exit from Public Hall referred to Report to the Executive Committee.

It will appear from the above that the deficit for the year 1890-91 is $1,157.00.

The estimated receipts for the coming on the basis of 440 students will be $102,436.00.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Kean, Gordon, Watts, McCormick & Patteson.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved that the application of Profr Tuttle to make his a compulsory two years course be posponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved that the application of Prof Smith to employ two students as his assistants instead of one as at present, the salary as at present paid to one to be divided between the two, be referred to the Executive Committee for proper action.

Resolved that the Board hereafter meet on the day of the Final Celebration and that in order to attest the respect of the Board for the celebrations of the Literary Societies, the Executive Committee or as many as can, be requested to attend their celebrations as the representatives of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Lecture course in Surgery alone

$20.00

Lecture course in Hygiene alone

10.00

Dissection alone without lectures for proficients in Anatomy

10.00

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia June 29th 1891.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector and Messrs Gordon, McCabe, Parrisn, Watts, McCormick, Patteson and Kean.

A letter was read from Judge Bolling to the Rector stating that he would be prevented from attending the meeting by his professional engagements in the Virginia Court of Appeals.

Reports received & other papers:

Report of the Executive Committee

The Faculty report

The Proctor's report

Report of the Commr of Accounts

Report of the Librarian

Report of the Profr Stone

Report of the Special Committee of the Faculty

in relation to Dr Leverson's application.

application of Profr Garnett for improvements to his pavilion.

application of Mr Bright in regard to his matriculation fees.

application of Mr Lightfoot for relief from payment of University fees.

Petition of the Washington Society for further time on its indebtedness to the University for a loan.

application of Mrs Wallace to be allowed to run sewer pipes from her lot through the University land.

Application of Dr W. C. Dabney for renewal of his leave to practice medicine.

Communication from Eugene C. Massie complaining of damage to his property from University sewerage.

Communication from Profr Minor for additional office room.

Application from the Jefferson & Washington Societies for pecuniary aid.

Petition of Geo B. Marshall for right of way through the University grounds.

Application of Mr Mansfield to have refunded to Mr Funke fees paid by him as student.

The following persons are applicants for the University boarding house now occupied by Mr T. W. Elsom and whose written applications are before the Board, viz.

T. W. Elsom, Mrs Bryant, Mrs Gunther, Mrs Crockford, Mrs Edmunds & Mr Beattie.

The Chairman of the Executive Committee presented and read to the Board the annual report of the Committee which report was approved and adopted and ordered to be spread upon the minutes.

Report of the Executive Committee to the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee submits the following report of their proceedings since the last annual meeting of the Board.

At a meeting held on the 22d of October 1890, on the recommendation of the Faculty the following fees in the optional two years course in medicine were established and ordered to be inserted in the forthcoming catalogue:

At the same meeting the application of Mr C. S. Purdy to attend the course of medicine in the University without payment of fees was refused.

The application of Mr J. E. Hubble to reenter the University on the 1st of April 1891 and complete the examinations for his degree in medicine without payment of fees, was granted.

The guarantee of the salary of $700. heretofore given to Mr Z. W. Coombs late instructor in Physical Culture was continued to his successor, J. S. Hutchcock.

The recommendation of the Faculty as to the change in the law requiring the Boarding house keepers to furnish bedding & furniture to the students living in the University was postponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Mr R. S. B. Smith was appointed at the last regular meeting of the Board of Visitors to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1890-91 on the recommendation of the Executrix of Mrs Birely under the belief that he was eligible under the provisions of the will of the testatrix. A copy of the will not being before the Board at the time of the appointment. Upon an inspection of the will however which required the young man appointed to be a resident of Frederick city or of Frederick County Maryland, Mr Smith not being a citizen of either place, on the recommendation of Mr Benjamin F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, W. R. Delashmutt of Frederick City, Maryland was appointed to sd scholarship. And the Proctor out of the general funds of the University was directed to credit an amount equal to the income of the Birely fund to the expense account of said W. R. Delashmutt for the Session of 1890-91. The income from said fund for the year having already been appropriated under the order of the Board to R. S. B. Smith who had matriculated before the error was discovered.

At at meeting of the Committee held on the 24th day of October 1890 the Proctor was directed to furnish the new chapel with fuel & lights from the time the building was turned over to the authorities of the University, viz since June last.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 18th of November 1890 a proposition from the firm of \[T. &\]? J. W. Johnson for the exchange with the University of Virginia for some of the broken sets of law books for certain books which were needed by the University to fill up some sets of reports already in the library. Upon the recommendation of the law professors the proposition was accepted and the exchange proposed directed to be made.

At a meeting of the Committee held on the 3d of December 1890 upon information received that W. R. Delashmutt who had been appointed to the Birely Scholarship at a former meeting had withdrawn from the University, on the recommendation of Mr Benj. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely, Mr John S. Newman of Frederick County, Maryland was appointed to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91 and the Proctor was directed to apply so much of the yearly income of the Birely fund which had not been expended for the charges & Expenses of said Delashmutt to the charges & expenses at the University of said John S. Newman for the remainder of the Session of 1890-91.

The Committee being informed that the Boarding house keepers in the University preferred to collect the board of the students directly and not through the Proctor as heretofore, a resolution authorizing them so to do was adopted.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr McCabe who was excused & left for his home.

The following papers were handed in:

Application of Profr Towles for leave of absence from the 15th of March to April 7th 1892.

Special report from the school of applied Mathematics.

Supplementary report from the Faculty.

Application of Mr J. T. Jameson for permission to examine the Arthur Lee papers & other manuscripts of that period in the Library.

A communication from the Faculty nominating David K. Butler for appointment to the Miller Scholarship for two years.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, that John B. Minor, Jr, be continued as instructor of law for the session 1891-92 and that his salary be fixed at one thousand dollars. Unanimously adopted.

Resolved, that the Faculty be authorized to grant a diploma for the requisite attainment in the subject of Celestial Mechanics.

Resolved, that David K. Butler be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for two years in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.

The following report from the Faculty in reference to Dr M. R. Leverson's application having been read and considered by the Board on motion it was

Resolved that the report be received and adopted and that the Secretary be directed to notify Dr Leverson of the action of the Board.

The Committee of the Faculty to which was referred the Resolutions of the Board of Visitors touching the application of Dr Leverson to be permitted to deliver in the University, a course of lectures on "the Science of Legislation", naving carefully considered the subject submit the following report

It seems to the Committee that the need at present, for such a course of lectures is not as urgent as for instruction in some other subjects, and that it is not desirable, in the existing condition of the University further to multiply the Departments therein.

The introduction of a subject so wide, so various, and so undetermined as the Science of legislation, would probably demand a rearrangement of several existing Departments, and that might involve consequences more far-reaching than can be foreseen.

And lastly if it should appear to be expedient to introduce such a subject of instruction, the principles to be discussed would involve topics of such delicacy and importance that the University ought not to commit itself to any course of instruction thereupon, or to extend its sanction thereto, until the Board has had ample opportunity to inquire into the fitness in all respects, of the proposed instructor, and by comparison to select the best man for the position.

The Committee thereupon recommend that the Faculty report to the Board that they cannot approve of Dr Leverson's application.

Salaries of 17 Professors of $3000. each=

$51,000.00

Salaries of 2 Professors of $2000. each=

4,000.00

Salaries of 2 Adjunct Professors of $1500. each=

3,000.00

Salaries of Assistant on Comn & Statute Law

1,000.00

Salaries of in Ancient Languages

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Math

600.00

Salaries of in Ancient Nat. Phil.

800.00

Salaries of in Ancient Chemistry

700.00

Salary of Assistant in Biology

500.00

Salary of Assistant in C. Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Mining Eng.

500.00

Salary of Assistant in Pathology

150.00

Salary of Assistant in History

150.00

Salary of Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

Salary of Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy

150.00

Salary of Chairman of the Faculty

500.00

Salary of Librarian

800.00

Salary of Proctor & Superintendent

2 000.00

Salary of Secretary of Faculty & Clerk of Chairman of Faculty

800.00

Salary of Secretary of Bd of Visitors

225.00

Salary of Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

Salary of Janitor & Plumber

600.00

Salary of Day & Night Watch

600.00

Salary of Janitor of Museum

180.00

70505.00

Salary of Janitor of the Medical Hall

135.00

Salary of Janitor of the Rotunda

275.00

Salary of Servant for the Annex

135.00

Salary of Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Salary of Laborers

1,000.00

Deficit year 1890-91

1,157.00

Astronomical Observatory

1,610.00

Biological Laboratory

1,000.00

Chemical Laboratory

350.00

Engineering Laboratory

200.00

Natl Philosophy

300.00

Natl History

50.00

Anatomical Material

125.00

Dispensary Material

150.00

4 Scholarships:

2 Agricultural

500.00

1 Birely

300.00

1 Brown

120.00

Insurance

1,915.00

Interest on Sinking Fund

7,220.00

Repairs & Improvements

5,000.00

Reservoir Tax

150.00

Commutation of rents

1,600.00

Contingent Fund

1,340.00

Catalogue & advertising

1,500.00

Diplomas

500.00

Printing blanks

150.00

Library

820.00

99227 00

Reading Room

100.00

Fuel & Lights

1,000.00

Fuel gas for Laboratories

165.00

Repairs inside of Gymnasium

50.00

Physical Apparatus School of N. P.

250.00

Salary of Adjunct Profr of Engineering

1,500.00

$101,292.00

Pavement from Elsom Hotel to Chapel (not exceeding)

$100.00

Physical Apparatus, School of Nat. Philos.

250.00

Chemical Chart School of G. & I. Chemistry

30.00

Surgical Instruments School of P. & S.

150.00

Microscope School of A. Chem.

40.00

Anatomical Material A. & Med.

50.00

Instruments & Material Med. & Obstet.

100.00

Total Contingent

$720.00

Instructor in Gymnastics such a sum as will pay him $700.00 Brought down

101,292.

$102,012.00

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Mr Kean who was confined to his room by indisposition.

The following resolutions were adopted

Resolved, that the application of Professor James M. Garnett relative to Pavilion No. 3 on West Lawn be referred to the Proctor who is directed to confer with the Board of Health and make the improvement in the event, that the said Board deem it absolutely essential and necessary for the health of the occupants of the pavilion.

Resolved, that the application of H. R. Bright that his fees paid during the session of 1890-91 be credited to him for the session of 1891-92 be granted.

Resolved, that the nomination of Mr. J. N. Newman by Mr B. F. Brown one of the Executors of Mrs Birely to the Birely Scholarship for the session of 1891-92 be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the application of Mr J. H. Hopkinson for return of fees paid by him be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the request of J. A. Lightfoot for the release of his indebteoness to the University be granted and that the debt be hereby released.

Resolved that the request of the Washington Literary Society for the postponement of their debt to the University be granted, and that the time for payment be extended for one year with the request that the Society ask no further extension.

Resolved that in future the Boarding House Keepers be required to pay an annual rent of three hundred dollars each for their respective houses, payable one half in advance and the residue on February first, and that said Boarding House Keepers make their own contracts with students and collect their board bills direct from their boarders.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty that additional openings be made in the Public Hall so as to give better means of entrance and exit be referred to to the Proctor with the request that he report upon the same and the cost thereof to the Executive Committee to which the matter is hereby referred for such action as to said Committee may seem proper.

Resolved that in the opinion of the Board no action is necessary on the petition of Geo B. Marshall asking a legal right to the road which he is now using by permission of the Board, the Board having no right to grant the prayer of the petition, and Mr Marshall having practically all that seems necessary in the premises.

In the matter of an increased water supply for the University,

Resolved that the Executive Committee and the Proctor be authorized to confer with the authorities of the city of Charlottesville on the subject and to make such an arrangement as they can to effect the purpose consistent with the financial condition of the University.

Resolved that the permission be granted Mrs Mary G. Wallace to lay her sewer pipe through the land of the University by the route designated in her petition, provided that said sewer shall be properly constructed and that the privilege hereby granted be subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that the matter of revision of the laws of the University be referred to a special Committee of six to be appointed by the Rector with the power to sit in vacation and report to the next meeting the result of their deliberations.

The Rector appointed the following Visitors as the Committee under the foregoing resolution:

Messrs Kean, Parrish, McCormick, Watts, Gordon and Patteson.

Resolved that the communication of Mr Eugene C. Massie be referred to the Executive Committee for such action as it may deem proper.

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized to invite Dr S. Rolfe Millar to deliver a course of gratuitous lectures upon some subject to be agreed upon in a conference between the Faculty and Dr Millar.

Resolved, that Mason Gordon, W. C. N. Randolph, R. G. H. Kean, Legh R. Watts and R. L. Parrish be and are hereby appointed the Executive Committee for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr Charles B. Ligerfoos \[?\] be and is hereby elected assistant instructor of Biology & Agriculture.

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to pay the sum of one hundred and forty two dollars & fifty cents to W. D. Dabney in full satisfaction of the balance due him for codifying the laws of the University and the amount advanced by him to pay for the type written copies of said laws.

Resolved that F. W. Page be hereby elected Librarian of the University for one year at a salary of Eight hundred dollars and that the Librarian be required to make a complete catalogue of the books in the Library.

Resolved that James B. Baker be hereby elected Secretary of the Faculty and Clerk of the Chairman of the Faculty for one year, at a salary of Eight hundred dollars.

Resolved that Dr Paul B. Barringer be elected Professor of Physiology and Surgery in the University of Virginia.

The following communication was received from the Miller Board:

"Resolved that the Board of Visitors of the University of Va is hereby respectfully requested to furnish (at its earliest convenience) to this Board a statement of the amount of Fees received from students in the Agricultural Department." (No action was taken by the Board in reference to the above.)

Resolved, that Mr W. H. Echols be and he is hereby elected Adjunct professor in the School of Applied Mathematics for one year.

Resolved that Profr Wm M. Thornton be elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year, and the Board, grateful for his past efficient services in the discharge of the duties of that office, earnestly request him to accept it again.

The Finance Committee submitted the following report which was read and considered and on motion the same, together its recommendations, was approved and adopted and ordered to be recorded:

To the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia. Your Committee on Finance beg leave to submit the following report. We recommend that the funds under the control of the Board for the session 1891-92— be appropriated as follows, to wit:

We would also recommend that should the income justify it, the following appropriations be authorized:

To change exit from Public Hall referred to Report to the Executive Committee.

It will appear from the above that the deficit for the year 1890-91 is $1,157.00.

The estimated receipts for the coming on the basis of 440 students will be $102,436.00.

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and Messrs Kean, Gordon, Watts, McCormick & Patteson.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved that the application of Profr Tuttle to make his a compulsory two years course be posponed until the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved that the application of Prof Smith to employ two students as his assistants instead of one as at present, the salary as at present paid to one to be divided between the two, be referred to the Executive Committee for proper action.

Resolved that the Board hereafter meet on the day of the Final Celebration and that in order to attest the respect of the Board for the celebrations of the Literary Societies, the Executive Committee or as many as can, be requested to attend their celebrations as the representatives of the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.
