---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1892'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
In the Dispensary building by

52.00

Heating the Chemical Laboratory by

571.29

New seats in Lecture Rooms

137.75

making a total excess of appropriations

$ 761.04

In addition to this there is contracted to be expended upon the new Ice pond

$800.

And for ice houses convenient to the same there is asked for

400.

1200.00

And for pay of Policeman $80. per mo.

960.

And for pay of a foreman $75. per mo.

900

1860.

Deducting heretofore paid for police $50. per month

600.

1260.00

Total unanticipated excess.

$3221.04

For Dispensary

$ 52.00

For Heating Chemical Laboratory

$571.24

For Lecture Room Seats

$137.75

Total

$760.99

For Construction of new Ice Pond

$ 800.00

For Construction of new Ice Houses

400.00

For Publishing University Laws

200.00

For Additional pay for Policeman

360.00

Total additional appropriations

$1760.00

Add appropriations for deficiencies from above

760.99

$2520.99

At a meeting of the Rector and Visitors called by the Rector and held at the University on the 8th day of December 1892 in pursuance of notice.

Present. W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, Messrs Kean, Parrish, McCabe, R. W. Martin, Gordon, T. S. Martin, & Patteson. Absent Mr McCormick.

Professor Thornton, Chairman of the Faculty laid before the Board, Report & Supplemental report of the Faculty, School reports, Librarian's, Proctor's reports, Report of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings and several petitions. These papers were referred to the appropriate Committees.

On motion, Resolved, that Basil B. Gordon be added to the Committee on the Conduct of Schools and Examination of Students.

The Rector submitted and had read to the Board two letters received by him from Col Archer Anderson of which the following are copies:

Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Rector of the University of Va, Charlottesville, Va:

Dear Sir: I hand you herewith my check on the 1st National Bank of Richmond drawn to your order and certified by that Bank for five thousand dollars ($5000.), which sum I give to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia upon the following trust. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are to invest this sum in bonds of the State of Virginia, or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a Scholarship in the said University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship". They are to apply the income of these securities every year to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia, who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and shall be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them. The said Rector and Visitors may execute this trust directly or through the agency of the Officers of the State of Virginia in accordance with existing laws, so far as the financial part of it is concerned, as the said Rector and Visitors may elect. If I have omitted any important detail or any more formal writing is required, I shall be glad to do what your experience may suggest in order to carry out the purpose above set forth.

In conclusion, I have only to request that as little mention be made of my name in connection with this matter as may be consistent with the proper keeping of the official records of the University, and I remain, with great respect,

Dr. W. C. N. Randolph, Rector of the University of Va.

Richmond, Nov. 22d, 1892

Charlottesville, Va.

Dear Sir. I received yesterday your letter of Nov. 18th acknowledging mine of 17th, and I thank you for your kind expressions. It gives me pleasure to accept your suggestion that it be left to the discretion of the Board of Visitors whether the endowment shall go to establish a fellowship or a scholarship; and you will, therefore, consider my letter of Nov. 17th as amended to this effect. With warm regard. Yours faithfully.

Archer Anderson.

Professor Wm M. Thornton laid before the Board a letter received by him from Mrs Leita M. Kent of Washington, City, D. C., the widow of Mr Linden Kent decd, which letter was read to the Board and of which the following is a copy:

I am in receipt of your letter of Nov. 6th and concur with you and my brother Charles Kent in your opinion, that the fund in memory of my husband shall be devoted to establishing the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature". I, therefore authorize you to say to the Board of Visitors, that I am prepared to pay them on the 1st of January \`93' or later, as the Board prefers, the sum of three thousand dollars, annually for the support of the chair and to further secure this payment, by bequeathing to the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville Va, the sum of Sixty thousand dollars, for the endowment of the Chair of English Literature, to be known as the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature".

Nothing would gratify me more than to see my brother occupy this chair, and, while I confess, the suggestion from you as to this probability has had some weight with me in the change from Lectureship Fund, to the Chair of English Literature, I would emphasize the fact, that in making the gift to the University, the sole activating motive with me has been, to honor the memory of my husband in a way that seemed to me the most fitting. No longer able to honor him in life and left only the burning desire of doing so in death, the memory that a home in Virginia was soon to tell of his abiding love for his native state, of a last drive around the Classic Halls of his loved Alma Mater, of a career in life such, that as an Alumnus of this University, he could be pointed to with pride, almost spontaneously, upon his death, inclined me to the thought, that in making greater the power for good of this child of his native state, I would be doing what he would most like to see and be associating his name with a source of learning that contributed no little to the success of his own life.

I appreciate my brother's unwillingness to accept this Chair unless called to it solely upon his merits, and therefore I have no objection to my name's being withheld for the present.

Thanking you much for the pains you have taken to assist me in this matter, believe me Very truly yours,

To Mr Wm M. Thornton.

P. S. Whenever my name must appear in connection with this matter, I prefer always Mrs Linden Kent to Mrs Leita M. Kent.

On motion the Board adjourned to tomorrow morning at 10 o clock.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

W. C. N. Randolph Rector

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and all Eight of the Visitors, including Mr McCormick who arrived to day, (and would have been present on yesterday, but for a mistake made by the Secretary in naming in his notice to him the 9th instead of the 8th as should have been.)

The following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:

The Rector having laid before the Board, the correspondence with Col Archer Anderson of Richmond City Va, presenting to the University the sum of Five Thousand dollars, to be invested in Bonds of the State of Virginia or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a scholarship, or fellowship in the University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship" or Fellowship, the income arising from said securities to be applied to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and to be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them.

Resolved, 1. That the Board of Visitors accept the said donation, upon the terms and for the purposes indicated by the donor, and will make suitable regulations for carrying the same into effect according to his intention.

2\. That the Rector cause the action of the Board to be communicated to Col Archer Anderson, and express to him the thanks of the Board, for his judicious liberality, a liberality not only valuable to the cause of education, and to the persons who will enjoy its benefits, but also as an example.

3\. That the Rector inquire of Col Anderson whether it will not be consistent with his intention, if the Board should, in the exercise of the discretion given by his letter of the 22d Nov. 1892 elect to establish a Fellowship, they may not provide that that the basis of election be that of merit alone.

The following resolution in reference to Mrs Linden Kent's proposition was adopted:

Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia accept the proposition of Mrs Linden Kent to endow a chair in the University with which the name of her late lamented husband shall be associated, and that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to visit Mrs Kent as soon as it may be agreeable to her for the purpose of ascertaining when she will be ready to complete her donation, together with the details of her plan. The Rector and Visitors beg to thank Mrs Kent for her generous offer to the University and to express their gratification at the prospect of having linked with a chair in this institution the name of an alumnus so honored as that of her late husband.

The following was adopted:

1\. Resolved that R. G. H. Kean, Esq, he requested to accompany Profr Wm M. Thornton to Washington to see Mrs Kent in regard to the establishment of the Linden Kent Profr of Eng. Lit. in the University, if in his discretion Mr Kean shall see fit so to do.

2\. Resolved that Profr Thornton be empowered to invite Mr H. T. Kent to come from St Louis to Washington to attend the conference in regard to said professorship, at the expense of the University of Virginia, shall Profr Thornton in his discretion deem it advisable.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings submitted a report which was read, approved and adopted and on motion the same was referred to the Finance Committee. The report reads as follows:

To the Rector & Board of Visitors.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings, to whom the Report of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings was referred, beg leave to report.

That the various items of work ordered by the Board at its annual meeting in June appear to have been vigerously carried out, except the removal of the pavements on the Ranges, for the present postponement of which, a good reason is assigned, in the anticipated approach of unsuitable (winter) weather.

Your Committee note that in several instances the amounts appropriated have been exceeded, namely

of this aggregate, the first amount of $761.04 having been expended and paid, it is no longer open for consideration.

The reasons for constructing the new ice pond seem to have been sufficient, namely the fear that ice gathered from the former source of supply might a source of disease.

As the use of the existing ice ponds, contiguous to the old pond, would necessitate a great amount of hauling, at times when it might be impracticable to obtain teams upon any reasonable terms we consider the construction of a new ice house convenient to the new pond unavoidable, we therefore recommend the approval of the work, and the appropriation of the $1200. required for it.

Your Committee recommend the payment of $80.00 per month for efficient day and night police as the same appears to be necessary.

They are not prepared at present to recommend the employment of a foreman at $75. per month.

The Committee call the attention of the Board to the fact that the three out of four instances presented, amounts have been expended beyond the sums appropriated. In one instance the excess being more than 40% beyond the amount authorized, and that too when the appropriation provided that the sum to be expended should be "not exceeding" the amount named.

The Committee have no doubt that the money so expended was deemed to be advantageously spent, but they feel constrained to observe that that the utility of a system of Estimates and appropriations, depends entirely upon a rigid adherence to the principle, that there is no authority by which money can be expended except by the provisions authorized by the Board, or of the Executive Committee, within the limits of the functions of the latter.

In view of an unanticipated expenditure of about $2000., as above shown, and the probable failure of collection of interest on the R. & D. R. R. Bonds, this committee respectfully refer the suggestion of the Superintendent, to add $1878.54 to the General Appropriation for maintenance and Repairs to the Finance Committee.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, that in future the Proctor be directed to pay no bills of any kind in excess of the appropriations made to meet such bills, unless specially authorized to do so by the Board or by the Executive Committee.

Resolved, that the nomination of Mr Jesse Ramsburgh of Frederick, Md, by Mr B. F. Brown to the Valentine Birely Scholarship is confirmed.

Resolved, that the Rector, Mr Gordon, and Mr T. S. Martin be appointed a Committee of three to inquire and report as to the condition of the investment in Richmond & Danville Railroad bonds.

Resolved, that It shall be the duty of the Finance Committee at least once in each year to examine all investments of Funds of the University, actually seeing and counting the securities, and making report thereon to the Board.

Profr Noah K. Davis having suggested to the Board the propriety of appropriating about the sum of $500.00 to pay off a small debt outstanding the tract of five acres of land on the north side of the county road in rear of the Rotunda, and to put the same in proper order and condition as grounds for athletic sports and amusements for the students of the University; and it appearing on investigation that, by virtue of a deed bearing date on the 25th day of November 1887, the title to four acres of said land stands vested in "The International Committee of the Young Men's Christian Association" a corporation chartered by Act of the New York Legislature on the 16th day of April 1863, and that, by virtue of a deed bearing date on the 30th day of May 1888 the title to the other acre of said land stands vested in Noah K. Davis, Wm M. Thornton and A. P. Bibb as trustees for The Young Men's Christian Association of the University of Virginia: Now therefore it is

Resolved that Mr Noah K. Davis be requested to ascertain whether or not and if at all on what terms the said land can be placed under the dominion and control of the University authorities, and to what extent the University is at present the University is at present interested beneficially in said property.

Resolved, that the application of the Business Editors of the University Magazine, and College Topics to have assigned to them the use of Room 14 East Range for an editorial room, etc. be referred to the Chairman of the Faculty to be disposed of as to him seems best.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which was read, approved and adopted together with its recommendations and is in the following words and figures:

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Gentlemen: The Committee on Finance beg leave to refer to their annual report made in June last for information as to the financial condition of the University for the current session.

The Committee regret to find from the report of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings that in several instances the allowances made by the Board have been exceeded. It is hoped that in future the Superintendent will be careful to keep within the limits of such appropriations. In order to meet these expenditures in excess of the appropriations made thereto, the Committee recommend the following appropriations, to wit:

It appears to the Committee that several appropriations in addition to those provided for in the said annual report should be made, and they therefore recommend the following additional appropriations be made, to wit:

Your Committee regret that the finances of the University will not permit the several appropriations asked by the different members of the Faculty for their respective schools.

R. L. Parrish

Thomas S. Martin

Marshall McCormick

Camm Patteson.

The Library Committee submitted its report which was read, approved and adopted and is in the following words and figures, to wit:

To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee herewith report that they adopt the suggestions of the Chairman of the Faculty appended hereto as a proper disposition of the $2500.00 set apart by the Finance Committee for the Library for the fiscal year 1892-93 believing it to be in all respects proper.

Basil B. Gordon

Camm Patteson

W. Gordon McCabe

Memorandum of Suggestions to the Library Committee of the Board of Visitors as to the more pressing needs of the University Library

1\. More shelf room.

This is necessary in order to permit the classification of the books now in the library and of new books as received. Partial relief may be obtained by storing Public Documents in new shelves to be erected in the Faculty room at a cost say of 5c a volume for 6000 volumes, total $300.

The gradual absorption of the entire Rotunda for library purposes is suggested as the best ultimate disposition of this building

2\. A classified catalogue.

Thus alone can the present resources of the Library be made entirely effective. A card catalogue is by the concurrent testimony of the most skilful librarians the best, type written and in duplicate (subjects and authors). Estimated cost $1000.

3\. A large file of current periodical literature.

The annual expenditure should be at least $500.

4\. New books.

Each department should be brought abreast with the present state of science and kept there.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools and Examination of Students submitted its report which was read and considered and on motion the same was approved and adopted by a unanimous vote, and is in the following words and figures, to wit,

To the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia,

Gentlemen, Owing to the interruptions inevitably incident to the Final Exercises in the University, your Committee on the Conduct of Schools was unable to present to the Board at the meeting in June last certain matters of importance & asked for further time to formulate recommendations touching these points.

The request was granted, & the Committee, after mature deliberation, now makes the following recommendations= That the system of elections for the B. A. degree be further extended, & that the following orders be issued by the Board, to date from the beginning of the Session of 1892-93:

I. The degree of Bachelor of Arts of the University of Virginia shall be conferred on a student who has been graduated in Eight (8) "B. A. Courses", of which at least one must be elected from each of the following six groups=

1\. Latin, Greek.

2\. French, German, Spanish, & Italian.

3\. General History, English Literature, Modern English.

4\. Mathematics, Astronomy, Mechanics.

5\. Chemistry, Physics, Geology, & Biology.

6\. Logic, Political Economy & the Science of Society.

As stated above, the candidate for B. A. is required to elect one subject from each of the 6 groups, but the other two courses, making the Eight (8) necessary for the degree, may be elected from the whole number of courses embraced in the six groups.

II. The degree of Master of Arts of the University of Virginia shall be conferred upon a Bachelor of Arts, who has been graduated in "the M. A. Courses" in each of the four (4) "schools" elected by himself & approved by the Faculty.

But it is expressly ordered that none of the work done in "the B. A. courses" by the applicant for the degree of Master of Arts, shall be counted again as part of the advanced work required in the four (4) "schools", which the candidate may elect for his "M. A. courses"

III. The degree of Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Virginia shall be conferred on a Bachelor of Arts or Master of Arts, who, in addition to having passed successfully a rigid examination in graduate work in two (2) "schools", elected by himself & approved by the Faculty, shall have prepared & printed a thesis (approved by his Professors in the "schools" elected), which shall evidence independent research or original treatment of some subject belonging to the "school" elected as his major.

IV. The preliminary degree required of candidates for the M.A. & Ph. D. degrees, may be that of this University or of some other chartered institution of learning. But in the latter case, it is expressly ordered that the degree shall be submitted for the approval of the Faculty (who shall have absolute power to accept or reject the degree offered), & that the Candidate must, in addition, be a graduate in "the B. A. courses" of this University of such subjects as he elects for his M. A. work, & in "the M. A. courses" of this University in the two (2) "schools" elected for his Ph. D. work.

But this condition may be waived in favor of candidates for the M. A. degree, who evidence upon examination adequate preliminary training to pursue with profit, in addition to the B. A. course, the more advanced work in each "school" elected.

V. That the Course in "English & American History" in the "School of Historical Science" is hereby declared an "M. A. Course", (to date from the beginning of the session of 189293)

VI. That the course in "Early English" in the School of English is hereby declared an "M. A. Course", (to date from the beginning of the Session of 1892-93).

VII. That the Professor at the head of the "school of Historical Science" be requested to provide an advanced or M. A. course in "Political Economy & the Science of Society", in addition to "the B. A. course" embraced in the six groups of subjects given above in this Report.

VIII. That it is hereby ordered that any student electing the "School of Historical Science" as one of the "schools" for his Ph. D. work may elect work either in History or in Political Economy & the Science of Society.

IX. That the nomenclature of "Junior", "Intermediate" & "Senior" classes is hereby abolished & shall not appear in the catalogue, official Reports or Class Lists of the University.

X. That the recommendation of the Faculty be granted that the present law in regard to what is required of students from other Medical Schools who desire to enter at once here upon the second year's course in Medicine, be so modified that the words "one course of lectures of 9 months or two courses of less than 9 months" shall read "one course of 7 months or two courses of less than 7 months".

For other matters recommended in the various reports from members of the Faculty, submitted to this Committee, we respectfully ask for further time with a view to more careful consideration.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

W. Gordon McCabe, Chairman

R. G. H. Kean

R. L. Parrish

Basil B. Gordon.

Report of the Committee on the revision of the Laws. To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Your Committee of six, to whom was referred the subject of the Revision of the Laws, by the resolution adopted on the 1st of July 1891, (Record p 275 \[238\]), availing themselves of the authority conferred by said resolution, met at the Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs on the 29th of July 1891, and proceeded to give the subject their best attention. The Committee was three days in session, and worked with commendable diligence, going over the entire report of Mr Dabney's work, critically, and carefully and section by section.

It seemed to the Committee, that the Revised Laws of the University should be divided into chapters with appropriate headings, numbered with Roman numerals, and into sections with Arabic numerals consecutively from the first to the last, from 1 to 301 inclusive. In going over Mr Dabney's, the Committee sought to simplify, and abbreviate the Code as far as was consistent with clearness. To this end they struck out many sections, the subject, matter of which was dealt with in some other place, generally making merely a reference to the section when the subject was dealt with.

In a number of instances, sections which had been retained by Mr Dabney because he found them upon the old record, which however appeared to Your Committee to be no longer useful, were stricken out, as obsolete or unuseful.

In many other instances, amendments, some merely verbal, others, substantial, and growing out of a definite policy, were made, or new sections substituted in place of those reported. In doing this work, each member of the Committee was furnished with a copy of Mr Dabney's report, and made thereon corrections or alterations, which were agreed upon by the Committee.

In most instances, these corrections, or alterations were agreed on unanimously. In a few cases there was a diference of opinion, among the members of the Committee, and in some cases, it was felt that it was best that certain subjects (a few in number, but of especial importance), should be reserved for the action of the Board itself. With the exception of the matters thus reserved, Your Committee herewith return and report the copy of Mr Dabney's draft, with the omissions, corrections and substitutions made the Committee and with the division into Chapters, and sections noted, and recommend its adoption in this form so soon as the matters so reserved shall be dealt with by the Board.

In order to bring this long protracted, and much needed work to a close, Your Committee respectfully recommend, that the Board proceed to deal with the open questions so reserved, and as soon as they are disposed of, provide that the laws as so revised be ordered to be printed from the corrected draft herewith submitted.

It is recommended further that Chap. LXVIII. of the Code of Virginia be printed with and prefixed to the Laws as so printed, and the pamphlet be entitled, "Laws of the University of Virginia 1892". That 5000, copies of the same be printed for the use of the University, the printing to be done by contract to be made by the Proctor, the proof to be corrected and a proper index prepared by Mr Walter D. Dabney, or such other person as the Rector may designate. That when printed, two copies be given to each professor, and assistant professor, and one each to all other officers of the University, and to each Hotel Keeper, and to the Chairman as such, 100 copies, and that the rest of the Edition be delivered to the Librarian, to be safely kept; and issued only on the written order of the Chairman of the Faculty to each of the officers, professors or instructors of the University who may need one, for his own use.

This report was ready for submission to the Board at the annual meeting in June last (1892), but as it became obvious from the quantity of work about current matters, then before the Board, that it could not be dealt with, the Board informally postponed the consideration of the subject, to the present meeting.

The acknowledged importance of the subject calls for final action as soon as practicable.

Respectfully submitted,

Decr 8th 1892.

R. G. H. Kean, Chairman

R. L. Parrish

Camm Patteson.

The report of the Committee on revision of the Laws of the University, of which the foregoing is a copy was submitted to the Board and with it the copy of Mr Dabney's draft of the laws referred to in said report, also a memorandum by the Committee of subjects referred to in the report as not acted upon but reserved for the action of the Board itself.

The report was read and considered and the Board acted upon said open questions reserved for it and the result of its action made to appear in said copy, thus completing the Code. Thereupon on motion the said report, includings its recommendations, and said Code, were approved and adopted by a unanimous vote.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Rector of the University of Va, Charlottesville, Va:

Dear Sir: I hand you herewith my check on the 1st National Bank of Richmond drawn to your order and certified by that Bank for five thousand dollars ($5000.), which sum I give to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia upon the following trust. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are to invest this sum in bonds of the State of Virginia, or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a Scholarship in the said University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship". They are to apply the income of these securities every year to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia, who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and shall be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them. The said Rector and Visitors may execute this trust directly or through the agency of the Officers of the State of Virginia in accordance with existing laws, so far as the financial part of it is concerned, as the said Rector and Visitors may elect. If I have omitted any important detail or any more formal writing is required, I shall be glad to do what your experience may suggest in order to carry out the purpose above set forth.

In conclusion, I have only to request that as little mention be made of my name in connection with this matter as may be consistent with the proper keeping of the official records of the University, and I remain, with great respect,

I am in receipt of your letter of Nov. 6th and concur with you and my brother Charles Kent in your opinion, that the fund in memory of my husband shall be devoted to establishing the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature". I, therefore authorize you to say to the Board of Visitors, that I am prepared to pay them on the 1st of January \`93' or later, as the Board prefers, the sum of three thousand dollars, annually for the support of the chair and to further secure this payment, by bequeathing to the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville Va, the sum of Sixty thousand dollars, for the endowment of the Chair of English Literature, to be known as the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature".

Nothing would gratify me more than to see my brother occupy this chair, and, while I confess, the suggestion from you as to this probability has had some weight with me in the change from Lectureship Fund, to the Chair of English Literature, I would emphasize the fact, that in making the gift to the University, the sole activating motive with me has been, to honor the memory of my husband in a way that seemed to me the most fitting. No longer able to honor him in life and left only the burning desire of doing so in death, the memory that a home in Virginia was soon to tell of his abiding love for his native state, of a last drive around the Classic Halls of his loved Alma Mater, of a career in life such, that as an Alumnus of this University, he could be pointed to with pride, almost spontaneously, upon his death, inclined me to the thought, that in making greater the power for good of this child of his native state, I would be doing what he would most like to see and be associating his name with a source of learning that contributed no little to the success of his own life.

I appreciate my brother's unwillingness to accept this Chair unless called to it solely upon his merits, and therefore I have no objection to my name's being withheld for the present.

Thanking you much for the pains you have taken to assist me in this matter, believe me Very truly yours,

In the Dispensary building by

52.00

Heating the Chemical Laboratory by

571.29

New seats in Lecture Rooms

137.75

making a total excess of appropriations

$ 761.04

In addition to this there is contracted to be expended upon the new Ice pond

$800.

And for ice houses convenient to the same there is asked for

400.

1200.00

And for pay of Policeman $80. per mo.

960.

And for pay of a foreman $75. per mo.

900

1860.

Deducting heretofore paid for police $50. per month

600.

1260.00

Total unanticipated excess.

$3221.04

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and all Eight of the Visitors, including Mr McCormick who arrived to day, (and would have been present on yesterday, but for a mistake made by the Secretary in naming in his notice to him the 9th instead of the 8th as should have been.)

The following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:

The Rector having laid before the Board, the correspondence with Col Archer Anderson of Richmond City Va, presenting to the University the sum of Five Thousand dollars, to be invested in Bonds of the State of Virginia or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a scholarship, or fellowship in the University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship" or Fellowship, the income arising from said securities to be applied to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and to be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them.

Resolved, 1. That the Board of Visitors accept the said donation, upon the terms and for the purposes indicated by the donor, and will make suitable regulations for carrying the same into effect according to his intention.

2\. That the Rector cause the action of the Board to be communicated to Col Archer Anderson, and express to him the thanks of the Board, for his judicious liberality, a liberality not only valuable to the cause of education, and to the persons who will enjoy its benefits, but also as an example.

3\. That the Rector inquire of Col Anderson whether it will not be consistent with his intention, if the Board should, in the exercise of the discretion given by his letter of the 22d Nov. 1892 elect to establish a Fellowship, they may not provide that that the basis of election be that of merit alone.

The following resolution in reference to Mrs Linden Kent's proposition was adopted:

Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia accept the proposition of Mrs Linden Kent to endow a chair in the University with which the name of her late lamented husband shall be associated, and that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to visit Mrs Kent as soon as it may be agreeable to her for the purpose of ascertaining when she will be ready to complete her donation, together with the details of her plan. The Rector and Visitors beg to thank Mrs Kent for her generous offer to the University and to express their gratification at the prospect of having linked with a chair in this institution the name of an alumnus so honored as that of her late husband.

The following was adopted:

1\. Resolved that R. G. H. Kean, Esq, he requested to accompany Profr Wm M. Thornton to Washington to see Mrs Kent in regard to the establishment of the Linden Kent Profr of Eng. Lit. in the University, if in his discretion Mr Kean shall see fit so to do.

2\. Resolved that Profr Thornton be empowered to invite Mr H. T. Kent to come from St Louis to Washington to attend the conference in regard to said professorship, at the expense of the University of Virginia, shall Profr Thornton in his discretion deem it advisable.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings submitted a report which was read, approved and adopted and on motion the same was referred to the Finance Committee. The report reads as follows:

To the Rector & Board of Visitors.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings, to whom the Report of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings was referred, beg leave to report.

That the various items of work ordered by the Board at its annual meeting in June appear to have been vigerously carried out, except the removal of the pavements on the Ranges, for the present postponement of which, a good reason is assigned, in the anticipated approach of unsuitable (winter) weather.

Your Committee note that in several instances the amounts appropriated have been exceeded, namely

of this aggregate, the first amount of $761.04 having been expended and paid, it is no longer open for consideration.

The reasons for constructing the new ice pond seem to have been sufficient, namely the fear that ice gathered from the former source of supply might a source of disease.

As the use of the existing ice ponds, contiguous to the old pond, would necessitate a great amount of hauling, at times when it might be impracticable to obtain teams upon any reasonable terms we consider the construction of a new ice house convenient to the new pond unavoidable, we therefore recommend the approval of the work, and the appropriation of the $1200. required for it.

Your Committee recommend the payment of $80.00 per month for efficient day and night police as the same appears to be necessary.

They are not prepared at present to recommend the employment of a foreman at $75. per month.

The Committee call the attention of the Board to the fact that the three out of four instances presented, amounts have been expended beyond the sums appropriated. In one instance the excess being more than 40% beyond the amount authorized, and that too when the appropriation provided that the sum to be expended should be "not exceeding" the amount named.

The Committee have no doubt that the money so expended was deemed to be advantageously spent, but they feel constrained to observe that that the utility of a system of Estimates and appropriations, depends entirely upon a rigid adherence to the principle, that there is no authority by which money can be expended except by the provisions authorized by the Board, or of the Executive Committee, within the limits of the functions of the latter.

In view of an unanticipated expenditure of about $2000., as above shown, and the probable failure of collection of interest on the R. & D. R. R. Bonds, this committee respectfully refer the suggestion of the Superintendent, to add $1878.54 to the General Appropriation for maintenance and Repairs to the Finance Committee.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Rector of the University of Va, Charlottesville, Va:

Dear Sir: I hand you herewith my check on the 1st National Bank of Richmond drawn to your order and certified by that Bank for five thousand dollars ($5000.), which sum I give to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia upon the following trust. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are to invest this sum in bonds of the State of Virginia, or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a Scholarship in the said University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship". They are to apply the income of these securities every year to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia, who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and shall be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them. The said Rector and Visitors may execute this trust directly or through the agency of the Officers of the State of Virginia in accordance with existing laws, so far as the financial part of it is concerned, as the said Rector and Visitors may elect. If I have omitted any important detail or any more formal writing is required, I shall be glad to do what your experience may suggest in order to carry out the purpose above set forth.

In conclusion, I have only to request that as little mention be made of my name in connection with this matter as may be consistent with the proper keeping of the official records of the University, and I remain, with great respect,

I am in receipt of your letter of Nov. 6th and concur with you and my brother Charles Kent in your opinion, that the fund in memory of my husband shall be devoted to establishing the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature". I, therefore authorize you to say to the Board of Visitors, that I am prepared to pay them on the 1st of January \`93' or later, as the Board prefers, the sum of three thousand dollars, annually for the support of the chair and to further secure this payment, by bequeathing to the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville Va, the sum of Sixty thousand dollars, for the endowment of the Chair of English Literature, to be known as the "Linden Kent Chair of English Literature".

Nothing would gratify me more than to see my brother occupy this chair, and, while I confess, the suggestion from you as to this probability has had some weight with me in the change from Lectureship Fund, to the Chair of English Literature, I would emphasize the fact, that in making the gift to the University, the sole activating motive with me has been, to honor the memory of my husband in a way that seemed to me the most fitting. No longer able to honor him in life and left only the burning desire of doing so in death, the memory that a home in Virginia was soon to tell of his abiding love for his native state, of a last drive around the Classic Halls of his loved Alma Mater, of a career in life such, that as an Alumnus of this University, he could be pointed to with pride, almost spontaneously, upon his death, inclined me to the thought, that in making greater the power for good of this child of his native state, I would be doing what he would most like to see and be associating his name with a source of learning that contributed no little to the success of his own life.

I appreciate my brother's unwillingness to accept this Chair unless called to it solely upon his merits, and therefore I have no objection to my name's being withheld for the present.

Thanking you much for the pains you have taken to assist me in this matter, believe me Very truly yours,

In the Dispensary building by

52.00

Heating the Chemical Laboratory by

571.29

New seats in Lecture Rooms

137.75

making a total excess of appropriations

$ 761.04

In addition to this there is contracted to be expended upon the new Ice pond

$800.

And for ice houses convenient to the same there is asked for

400.

1200.00

And for pay of Policeman $80. per mo.

960.

And for pay of a foreman $75. per mo.

900

1860.

Deducting heretofore paid for police $50. per month

600.

1260.00

Total unanticipated excess.

$3221.04

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present. The Rector and all Eight of the Visitors, including Mr McCormick who arrived to day, (and would have been present on yesterday, but for a mistake made by the Secretary in naming in his notice to him the 9th instead of the 8th as should have been.)

The following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted:

The Rector having laid before the Board, the correspondence with Col Archer Anderson of Richmond City Va, presenting to the University the sum of Five Thousand dollars, to be invested in Bonds of the State of Virginia or such other securities as they may select, and therewith establish a scholarship, or fellowship in the University to be called the "John Y. Mason Scholarship" or Fellowship, the income arising from said securities to be applied to the maintenance and instruction at the said University of some deserving student born in Virginia who shall be deemed by them unable to prosecute his studies without such assistance and to be selected under regulations to be prescribed by them.

Resolved, 1. That the Board of Visitors accept the said donation, upon the terms and for the purposes indicated by the donor, and will make suitable regulations for carrying the same into effect according to his intention.

2\. That the Rector cause the action of the Board to be communicated to Col Archer Anderson, and express to him the thanks of the Board, for his judicious liberality, a liberality not only valuable to the cause of education, and to the persons who will enjoy its benefits, but also as an example.

3\. That the Rector inquire of Col Anderson whether it will not be consistent with his intention, if the Board should, in the exercise of the discretion given by his letter of the 22d Nov. 1892 elect to establish a Fellowship, they may not provide that that the basis of election be that of merit alone.

The following resolution in reference to Mrs Linden Kent's proposition was adopted:

Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia accept the proposition of Mrs Linden Kent to endow a chair in the University with which the name of her late lamented husband shall be associated, and that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to visit Mrs Kent as soon as it may be agreeable to her for the purpose of ascertaining when she will be ready to complete her donation, together with the details of her plan. The Rector and Visitors beg to thank Mrs Kent for her generous offer to the University and to express their gratification at the prospect of having linked with a chair in this institution the name of an alumnus so honored as that of her late husband.

The following was adopted:

1\. Resolved that R. G. H. Kean, Esq, he requested to accompany Profr Wm M. Thornton to Washington to see Mrs Kent in regard to the establishment of the Linden Kent Profr of Eng. Lit. in the University, if in his discretion Mr Kean shall see fit so to do.

2\. Resolved that Profr Thornton be empowered to invite Mr H. T. Kent to come from St Louis to Washington to attend the conference in regard to said professorship, at the expense of the University of Virginia, shall Profr Thornton in his discretion deem it advisable.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings submitted a report which was read, approved and adopted and on motion the same was referred to the Finance Committee. The report reads as follows:

To the Rector & Board of Visitors.

The Committee on Grounds & Buildings, to whom the Report of the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings was referred, beg leave to report.

That the various items of work ordered by the Board at its annual meeting in June appear to have been vigerously carried out, except the removal of the pavements on the Ranges, for the present postponement of which, a good reason is assigned, in the anticipated approach of unsuitable (winter) weather.

Your Committee note that in several instances the amounts appropriated have been exceeded, namely

of this aggregate, the first amount of $761.04 having been expended and paid, it is no longer open for consideration.

The reasons for constructing the new ice pond seem to have been sufficient, namely the fear that ice gathered from the former source of supply might a source of disease.

As the use of the existing ice ponds, contiguous to the old pond, would necessitate a great amount of hauling, at times when it might be impracticable to obtain teams upon any reasonable terms we consider the construction of a new ice house convenient to the new pond unavoidable, we therefore recommend the approval of the work, and the appropriation of the $1200. required for it.

Your Committee recommend the payment of $80.00 per month for efficient day and night police as the same appears to be necessary.

They are not prepared at present to recommend the employment of a foreman at $75. per month.

The Committee call the attention of the Board to the fact that the three out of four instances presented, amounts have been expended beyond the sums appropriated. In one instance the excess being more than 40% beyond the amount authorized, and that too when the appropriation provided that the sum to be expended should be "not exceeding" the amount named.

The Committee have no doubt that the money so expended was deemed to be advantageously spent, but they feel constrained to observe that that the utility of a system of Estimates and appropriations, depends entirely upon a rigid adherence to the principle, that there is no authority by which money can be expended except by the provisions authorized by the Board, or of the Executive Committee, within the limits of the functions of the latter.

In view of an unanticipated expenditure of about $2000., as above shown, and the probable failure of collection of interest on the R. & D. R. R. Bonds, this committee respectfully refer the suggestion of the Superintendent, to add $1878.54 to the General Appropriation for maintenance and Repairs to the Finance Committee.
