---
layout: minutesLayout
year: 1895
month: 8
tags:
  - minutes
title: Board Minutes (August 15, 1895)
name: Board Minutes
location:
  '@type': Place
  name: University of Virginia Library
  address: Charlottesville, Virginia
organizer:
  '@type': Organization
  name: Board of Visitors, University of Virginia
keywords: Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, minutes, governance, meetings
description: >-
  Minutes from the Board of Visitors meeting held on August 15, 1895, addressing
  various appointments, financial appropriations, and proposals related to the
  university.
attendee:
  - '@type': Person
    name: The Rector
  - '@type': Person
    name: Dr. Randolph
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mr. McCabe
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mr. Patteson
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mr. Watts
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mr. McCormick
  - '@type': Person
    name: Dr. Martin
  - '@type': Person
    name: T. S. Martin
  - '@type': Person
    name: R. T. Irvine
about:
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Use of Fayerweather Fund
    description: >-
      Discussion regarding the appropriation of funds for improvements and
      repairs.
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Annals of Mathematics
    description: >-
      Approval of the proposal by Professors Stone and Echols to transfer
      proprietorship of the Annals to the University.
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Lectureship Endowment
    description: >-
      Consideration of a donation for establishing a lectureship in defense of
      Christianity.
---

<!-- altadded -->
<!-- altadded -->

<!-- llmmeta -->



<!-- llmformatted -->

# Board of Visitors minutes (1895) August 15, 1895

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
August 15, 1895\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## 1891 1886 May 26

For Mr Barton -\
Mr McCormick\
1\.

For Mr Dabney -\
The Rector, McCabe, Patteson, R. W. Martin & T. S. Martin\
5\.

For Mr Minor -\
Mr Irvine\
1\.

### Finance, Miller & Observatory Funds

Conrad, Randolph, Stuart & Gordon.

### Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses.

Stuart, Noland & Bolling.

### Library & Apparatus -

Watts, McCabe & Gordon.

### Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students

Randolph, McCabe & Gordon.

### Infirmary, Health, Sewerage & Drainage.

Noland, Bolling & Stuart.

### Committees-

**Ex. Comee.**
Messrs Gordon, Chairman, Randolph, Kean, Watts & Parrish.

**Finance & Miller & Observatory Fund**
Messrs Watts, Parrish, Gordon & Patteson.

**Grounds & Buildings etc.**
Messrs Bolling, McCormick & Kean.

**Library etc.**
Gordon, McCormick & Patteson

**Conduct of Schools etc.**
McCabe, Kean & Parrish

**Infirmary Health, Sewerage etc**
Patteson, Watts & Bolling.

### Committees

**Finance**\
Messrs Conrad, W. A. Stuart,\
Miller & Observatory\
Venable & Randolph

**Grounds, Buildings & Boarding Houses**\
W. A. Stuart, Payne & Parrish

**Library & Apparatus**\
Marye, Martin & Parrish

**Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students**\
Randolph, Venable & Marye

**Infirmary, Health Sewers & Drainage**\
Martin, Payne & Conrad

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University Virginia held in pursuance of a call by the Rector, on the 15th day of August 1895.

Present. The Rector, Dr Randolph and Visitors, McCabe, Patteson, Watts, McCormick, Dr Martin, T. S. Martin and R. T. Irvine, vice, Basil B. Gordon, resigned.

The Rector informed the Board that he had information that Visitor A. C. Gordon was unavoidably prevented from attending.

Mr Irvine, the new member, filed with the Secretary of the Board, his commission from the Governor, designating him to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of B. B. Gordon, and a certificate of his qualification as Visitor before Geo. W. Ward, Jr., Judge of the County Court of Washington County, Virginia, on the 14th of August 1895.

The Rector after calling the Board to order, stated that the meeting had been called for the purpose of making provision for filling the vacancy in the Law Department occasioned by the death of Professor John B. Minor, which occurred on the 29th ult.

The following was enacted by the Board=

The Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings having reported that to complete the improvements, already begun and nearly completed in paving East and West Ranges, and the approaches to them and the change of the East Range Road as directed by a resolution of July 2d 1895, it will require a further appropriation of $2750.00, it is resolved that said sum be and is hereby appropriated to complete said work, but its to be paid out of the Fayerweather fund. In this sum is included $600.00 to open for the use of West Range an ally similar to that just opened for the use of East Range.

It also contemplates the closing of the present Roadway in front of West Range and the Supt of Grounds and Buildings is directed to close said West Range Road.

Resolved, that the matter of necessary attention and repairs to the present water supply be referred to the Executive Committee with authority to use for the repair or putting in such new pipes as may be necessary the money due the University by the City of Charlottesville which money is now appropriated for that purpose and placed at the disposal of the Executive Committee, provided however if the money due from the City of Charlottesville cannot be collected as soon as necessary to make the repairs contemplated by this resolution the sum of $2000.00 is hereby appropriated out of the Fayerweather fund and placed at the disposal of the Executive Committee to make the repairs herein provided for, but such sum as may be collected from the said city shall be used to reimburse the Fayerweather fund to the extent that that fund is used for said repairs.

A communication was received from Professor Ormond Stone and one from Professor W. H. Echols also proposing to turn over to the University the proprietorship of the "Annals of Mathematics". The same were read and considered and on motion the following was adopted.

Professor Stone's offer to turn over to the University the proprietorship of the Annals of Mathematics be and is hereby accepted and Professors Ormond Stone, Wm H. Echols and Wm M. Thornton are appointed to take charge of edit and continue the publication of the said Annals, and the sum of $350.00 is hereby appropriated annually to cover the expenses of the continuance of the publication until it becomes self-supporting.

The Chairman of the Faculty this day presented to the Visitors for their consideration and action a letter of date August 10th, 1895 from the Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D. D., to Profr F. H. Smith, which is in the following words and figures: Prof. F. H. Smith, University of Virginia. Dear Sir: I have set aside the sum of $5000.00 to endow a Lectureship, for the perpetual defence of the truth of Christianity, and desire to have two institutions of high learning associated in the management of the said lectureship, one of them being a college and the other a University. For this purpose I have given in trust to Davidson College, N. C. (my Alma Mater) the sum of twenty five hundred dollars, and I now desire to give the legal authorities of the University of Virginia the sum of twenty five hundred dollars in trust for the same purpose, provided that the said University of Va. and the said Davidson College can be, and shall be associated in the management and benefit of said lectureship in a way agreeable to both of said institutions.

In this donation it is to be understood and agreed to, that, 1st, only the income of the endowment fund shall be used in the expenses of the said lectureship; 2. A course of lectures, consisting of not less than four or more than six lectures, within the range of the following points, the eternal personality of God, the immortal personality of man, the divine inspiration of the Bible, and the truth of Christianity as revealed in the Bible, shall be, determined at both institutions as often as the income of the endowment fund shall justify; 3. The lectures of each course shall be, as soon after their delivery as practicable, published in book-form, and all the net proceeds of the sale thereof shall be added to the endowment fund of the lectureship, 4. The lecturer in every case shall be chosen by the joint agreement of the Faculties of the two institutions associated in the lectureship, and the lecturer thus chosen shall always be a man of acknowledged scholarship in the department of his lectures, and a member of some branch of the Christian Church holding the evangelical system of historical Christianity. And now I do hereby through you and Prof. N. K. Davis, offer to the Visitors of the University of Virginia the sum of $2500.00 in trust for this purpose, provided that a suitable and satisfactory agreement and arrangement shall be entered into by the legal authorities of the before mentioned institutions for carrying into effect this proposed joint lectureship; and I request you to present this offer to the Visitors of the University of Va at the earliest opportunity, and to request them, if the offer is accepted, to empower and authorize their executive committee to enter into conference with the Executive Committee of the Trustees of Davidson College, and with them to arrange all details pertaining to the matter, with as little delay as possible. I am, Dear Sir, Yours very sincerely,
