---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1897'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1897) December 10, 1897
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 10, 1897

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Table.
------

1897

Cr

Feb. 1

By total receipts from all sources as per statement by Major Peyton, Proctor

$310,139.90

Feb. 28

By cash receipts in Feb. 1897

111.50

March 31

By cash receipts in Mar. 1897

790.33

Apl 30

By cash receipts in Apl 1897

62.00

May 31

By cash receipts in May 1897

6,217.56

5,500

June 30

By cash receipts in June 1897

121.50

5,621.50

July 31

By cash receipts in July 1897

494.00

Aug 31

By cash receipts in Aug 1897

5,050.00

Sep. 30

By cash receipts in Sep. 1897

77.75

Oct. 31

By cash receipts in Oct. 1897

60.00

Decr 1

Total receipts for restoration purposes

$328,624.54

1897

Dr

Feb. 1

To disbursements as per statement by Proctor

$204,139.68

Feb. 28

To Building Committee in Feb.

21,306.31

Mar 31

To Building Committee in Mar.

14,815.79

Apl 30

To Building Committee in Apl.

14,225.64

May 31

To Building Committee in May

8,151.68

June 30

To Building Committee in June

5,578.10

July 31

To Building Committee in July

6,814.39

Aug. 31

To Building Committee in Aug.

9,946.82

Sep. 30

To Building Committee in Sep.

23,941.89

Oct. 8

To Building Committee to date in Oct.

19,704.24

Oct. 8

Total Disbursements from Restoration Fund

$328,624.54

Oct. 31

To Building Committee from Fayerweather Fund

2,996.61

Nov 30

To Building Committee from Fayerweather Fund

26,362.72

Decr 7

To Building Committee from Fayerweather Fund

632.87

Decr 7

Total disbursements by the Building Committee

$358,616.74

Fayerweather Fund - University of Virginia -

1897

Cr

June 12

By balance from original bequest as per Proctor: report Appendix I

$ 189.30

June 24

By deposit in Peoples National Bank by Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Rector

9,236.08

9,425.38

July 19

By check of Executors received through R. C. Taylor, atty,

75,000.

Sep 24

By check of Executors received through R. C. Taylor, atty,

10,000.

Nov 23

By check of Executors received through R. C. Taylor, atty,

10,000.

95,000.00

$104,425.38

Dr

July 19

To cash to Bishop & Putney, attys

6,000.

Sep 28

To cash to Bishop & Putney, attys

800.

Decr 9

To cash to Bishop & Putney, attys

800.

7,600.00

Total Credits, (Net) to Fund -

$ 96,825.38

Less payments to Building Committee -

Oct 31

To Restoration Fund from Oct. 8th

2,996.61

Nov 30

To Restoration Fund from Oct 31st

26,362.92

Decr 7

To Restoration Fund from Nov. 30th

632.87

29,992.20

Decr 8

By Balance

$ 66,833.18

—— Sinking Fund - University of Virginia ——

Dr

1897

July 1

By amount of credits as per Proctor's report for fiscal year 1896-7

$ 13,778.12

By Interest on same (from June 15th to July 23d)

87.26

By Annual appropriation for Old debt

2,050.

By Annual appropriation for New debt

2,000.

By Interest from Ga Pacific Bonds

50

By Interest from South side Bond

15

July 23d

By Amount of temporary appropriation from current revenues in order to complete purchase of $28,000. of Va Century Bonds, as per statement below

100.87

$ 18,081.25

Dr

July 16

To purchase of $6000. Va Century Bonds 64 1/4

$3,855.00

July 22

To purchase of 5000. Va Century Bonds 64 3/8

3,218.75

July 23

To purchase of 17,000 Va Century bonds 64 3/4

$11,007.50

$ 18,081.25

— Statement —

May 26

By Inventory of deposits in vault of the Bank of Albemarle, viz University of Va Reg. 8% Bonds

$ 18,500.00

Georgia Pacif. Coupon Bonds

2,000.00

South Side R. R. Coupon Bonds

500.00

July 31

By deposit in the vault of the Bank of Albemarle Va Century bonds as per above purchases

28,000.00

Total Face Value

$ 49,000.00

— Repairs & Improvements Fund - University of Virginia -

1897

Cr

July 1

By balance from 1896-7

$ 181.76

July 1

By appropriation by Board (general)

4,280.00

July 1

By appropriation by Board (special)

200.00

July 2

By appropriation by Ex. Commee (special)

1 550.00

6 211.76

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Campbell

4.00

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Barnwell

3.00

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Jordan

22.50

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c ——

4.25

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Bingham

2.50

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Purvis

5.00

Oct 14

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Jordan

2.00

Oct 26

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Lile

4.00

Oct 26

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof Peters

15.00

Oct 26

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof Kent

15.00

Oct 30

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof Mallet

15.00

Oct 30

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof I. K. Moran

5.00

Oct 30

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof Buckmaster

15.39

Oct 30

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof Davis

9.00

Nov 2

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Prof ——

100.00

6

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c J. H. Corbitt

2.00

13

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Purvis

7.00

23

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Mrs Peters

54.50

29

By cash from R. Robertson, Supt a/c Dramatic Club

21.60

Decr 4

By Sundry bills rs Individuals

53.30

7

By Sundry bills rs Depts & Individuals

77.50

7

By bill rs Ths H. Carter

80.00

7

By sundry cash items from Profrs & others

12.00

440.04

$ 6,651.80

Dr

July 1 to Decr 7 To warrants #706 to #839, inclusive

6 261.27

Balance to Credit R. & I.

$ 390.53

1650 feet of 4 inch pipe 16 1/4 c

$ 268.12

2700 feet of 2 inch pipe 7 3/4 c

213.10

1500 feet of 1 inch pipe 5c

75.00

500 lbs lead 4 1/2 c

22.50

500 lbs Oakum 8c

40.00

Drips

25.00

Labor, excavating etc.

175.00

Wages - Mechanics & helpers

125.00

943.73

14,40 light meters 12.00

168.00

$1 111.73

17 Professors at

$3 000

$51,000.

2 Professors at

2,600

5,200.

1 Professors at

1,500

1,500.

1 Associate Prof.

2,000

2,000.

3 Adjunct Profs at

1,500

4,500.

Instructor in Physics

800.

Instructor in Latin

800.

Instructor in English Language

300.

2 Instructors Biology at

300.

600.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Demonstrator of Pathology etc.

800.

Director of Gymnasium

1,250

$69,550

15 Professors at

$3000.

$45,000.

1 Adjunct Profr at

1,500.

1,500.

1 Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

1 Assistant in Mathematics

800.

$47,100

If we add a Director of Gymnasium at

1,200

we have——

$48,350

Session.

Academic.

Law.

Medicine.

Total Attendance.

74-5

193

100

75

368

75-6

186

98

49

333

76-7

210

92

42

347

77-8

198

111

54

363

78-9

184

126

55

365

79-80

182

104

42

328

80-81

178

122

57

357

81-82

176

116

34

326

82-3

157

100

41

298

83-4

164

111

56

331

84-5

175

89

42

306

85-6

151

90

62

303

86-7

197

88

46

331

87-8

170

117

79

366

88-9

224

122

93

439

89-90

218

151

113

482

90-91

234

135

103

472

91-2

236

134

145

513

92-3

251

144

145

540

93-4

244

139

140

523

94-5

239

146

177

562

95-6

240

110

168

518

In the Medical Department

1818

In the Law Department

2545

In the Academic Department

4417

The average attendance for the period of time between said dates has been

400 of which

there were in the Medical Dept

82

in the Law Dept

117

in the Academic Dept

201

The total attendance for the session of 1896-97 was 504 of which there were in the Medical Dept.

151

in the Law Dept.

119

in the Academic Dept.

234

Commutation of rent

$2100.

Nine Lawn pavilions at $250. each

2250.

Dr Mallet's residence

250.

Profr Thornton's residence

250.

Profr Stones residence

250.

Instructor in Physics

800.

Instructor in Latin

800.

Instructor in English

300.

Total

$7,000.

Wishing to comply with the resolution adopted at the meeting of the Board on the 15th of June last (p. 169 \[156\] of the record), providing for a meeting during the month of November 1897, to further consider the question of a president for the University, I caused the secretary to sound the members as to whether the 26th of Nov. would suit them to attend. On hearing from them in reply, I became satisfied that the 10th of December was the earliest day on which a quorum of the Board could be gotten together, and I requested the Secretary to summon the Visitors to a meeting on that day, which was done.

University of Virginia, Decr 10th

— 1897 —

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors called by the Rector and held at the University in pursuance of notice, on the 10th day of December 1897.

Present, W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, and Visitors, Watts, Patteson, Gordon, Bryan, Harmon and McIlwaine.

The following constitue the minutes of the meeting:

Resolved: That Prof. W. D. Dabney be granted a leave of absence of four days, beginning, December 14th 1897, for the purpose of attending the United States Court at Harrisonburg, Va, as advisory counself.

Resolved: That Professors W. H. Echols and J. M. Page be re-elected to the respective chairs in the Mathematical school to which they were elected in June 1896, to take effect as of June 1, 1897.

At this point in the proceedings, the Rector, Dr Randolph, vacated the chair and called on Visitor Watts to preside, who took the chair.

Dr Randolph stated, that owing to the condition of his health he preferred to resign as Rector, and tendered his resignation, and asked that it be then accepted, whereupon the following resolution offered by Visitor Gordon, was adopted by a unanimous vote

Resolved: That the Visitors of the University accept with sincere regret the resignation of Dr W. C. N. Randolph as Rector of the University, which he has tendered on account of the condition of his health. In accepting this resignation the Visitors would put on record their appreciation of the loyal and unselfish devotion with which he has looked after the interests of the University, and the ability with which he has discharged its duties during the ten years that he has occupied this responsible and distinguished office, and they desire to express the kindly personal regard of each member of the Board for him.

They tender him their thanks for the efficiency and ability with which he has filled this office, and their most sincere wishes for the early restoration of his health.

Visitor Bryan nominated Visitor Watts as Rector in place of Dr Randolph, resigned,- Mr Watts declined the honor, stating that the claims of his business affairs upon his time and attention were such as to prevent him from accepting the office, and he thereupon placed in nomination Visitor Armistead C. Gordon, which was seconded by Dr Randolph, and being put to the vote, he was unanimously elected. Judge Watts then vacated the chair in favor of the new Rector who proceeded to occupy it.

Resolved: That the work on the East Wall connecting the new buildings and the old lawn, now under process of construction by the acting Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, be altered in accordance with the recommendation of the Architects, Messrs McKim, Mead & White.

On motion of Dr Randolph, Visitor Harmon was elected chairman of the Building Committee, vice, Dr Randolph, resigned and his resignation accepted.

Resolved: That the Chairs of History and Political Economy be consolidated into one chair; and that profr R. H. Dabney be elected to fill said Chair, with the full salary of a Professor, said salary to take effect as of November 4th 1897, the date of Profr Hdme's death.

Resolved: That the claim of Picivilli Brothers for $5600.00 for 14 Inic Caps be referred to the Executive Committe, with authority to approve or reject said claim as they may determine upon a full ascertainment of the facts.

Resolved: That the claims of James E. Phillips and R. Gueytiano, be referred to the Executive Committee, with power to act, after an ascertainment of the facts.

Resolved: That $1000 00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be appropriated out of funds of the University of Va, not otherwise appropriated, to be drawn on by the Chairman and expended under the direction of the Board of Health of the University, and said money shall only be expended if necessary to avert a water famine at the University.

1\. Resolved: That Mr. J. Walter Mayo be appointed Assistant Instructor in Applied Mathematics with especial charge of the practical work in Mechanical Engineering. 2.That the sum of $600.00 be appropriated for the salary of said Instructor and be placed to the credit of the fund for the Department of Engineering which shall be charged with the payment of the salary.

Resolved: That the Attorney for the Board be directed to take such steps as he may be advised to be proper, for the collection of the guarantee bond given by C. E. Langley & Co.

Whereas in the opinion of the Board the dedication of the new Buildings of the University should be made an occasion of special interest to the Alumni and friends of the University with appropriate proceedings and an address.

Resolved: That the Rector & Executive Committee are requested to take such steps as they may deem proper to carry out the purpose of the preamble, and that Judge Lambert Tree of Chicago be invited to deliver an address on the occasion, and should Judge Tree decline, the Rector and the Executive Committee shall invite some other person to make the address. That the day for such dedication shall be the 13th day of April next, or should there be any good reason for not having the dedication on that day, then on such other day as the Rector and Executive Committee may select.

The Law Class of the University having presented a petition asking that the Board make provision for Chairs in their lecture rooms in place of benches, on consideration it was

Resolved: That the petition be referred to the Executive Committee with power to act.

The Proctor brought to the attention of the Board a lot of claims against former students and asked instruction of the Board in regard to attempting to realize on them it was

Resolved: That the claims in favor of the University against former students this day submitted by the Proctor, be referred to the Chairman of the Executive and Mr John B. Moon, the attorney for the Board for inquiry as to their solvency, and a report to the Board at some future meeting as to their disposition.

Resolved: That Mr J. Churchill Gordon be allowed to stand the examinations in the School of Chemistry with the privilege of receiving a diploma if he graduates, without the further payment of fees.

The Special Committee on retrenchment through its Chairman, Visitor Gordon, submitted its report, which was read and on motion it was

Resolved: That the report of the Special Committee on Retrenchment be copied and a copy sent to each member of the Board; and that action thereon be deferred to a future meeting of the Visitors; but so much of said report as recommends the termination of the contract with the acting Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and the abolition of the position of clerk of the Building Committee is approved; and said contract with said Superintendent terminate on the 15th of December 1897, and that the position of clerk of the Building Committee be abolished after Decr 31st 1897, and that said Superintendent and Clerk be instructed to turn over their books and papers to the Proctor.

Resolved: That the Clerk of the Proctor shall act hereafter as clerk of the Building Committee.

The chairman of the Faculty in a report called attention to some errors in the recent codification of the laws of the University and on motion it was

Resolved: That the report of the Chairman of the Faculty be referred back to him and to the Secretary of the Board with authority to prepare and submit to the Board a table of errata to be added to or substituted for the revised code. Resolved, further - that said Chairman be requested to submit to the Board a statement embodying in form for enactment such changes and emendations of said printed code in other respects as will conform it to his understanding of the recorded laws of the University, with references to pages of the record books.

Resolved: That the following correction be made in the Laws of the University as revised and printed in 1897= That Sec 122 p. 32 for $30. read $35.00

Resolved: That the application of Mr Banks J. Powell for a return of fees be referred to the Proctor with authority to return to him a fair proportion of his fees, as recommended by the Faculty.

Resolved: First, that the Faculty's recommendation to the Visitors that after the Session of 1897-1898 no student be graduated in the Law Department who has not attended two full sessions of the Law School, be adopted.

Second: That the Law Faculty be authorized to accept in lieu of one year of such attendance, certificates of attendance and of work satisfactorily performed at other approved law schools, in which diplomas are given; provided, that in order to obtain the degree each student must have passed a satisfactory examination here upon all the subjects embraced in the law course of the University.

Resolved: That the report of the Committee on creating the Office of President of the University, and the resolutions accompanying the same, be laid on the table.

The Chairman of the Faculty submitted a report of a Committee of the Faculty, on scholarships which was read and considered and on motion the following resolution, in regard thereto was adopted.

Resolved: In accordance with the recommendations of the Faculty as follows

I. For every five academic students in any one session sent to the University by any private school from its pupils of the preceding session, said school shall be entitled to a scholarship the next session in the Academical Department of the University, eligible to white male students, said scholarship exempting the recipient, if he be a Virginian, from payment of the matriculation fee, and if he be from any other state, from the payment of tuition fees, but in neither case exempting him from the payment of fees for laboratory courses in Chemistry.

These scholarships shall be awarded under the following conditions.:

1.st The recipient must be selected from the pupils of the session preceding that in which they are to enter upon the scholarship.

2.d Candidates shall stand examinations in Latin, Mathematics, and the English Language. In Latin and Mathematics the examination will be on a course equivalent to that of Course A in the University, and in English on a course that shall insure adequate preparation for the B. A. Course. The examination questions shall be sent from the University to the head-masters of the schools, who will hold the examinations on certain specified days about the middle of May, and will send the papers to the Secretary of the Faculty, signed with a pledge, the head-master in addition certifying that, to the best of his knowledge, the candidates received no assistance in the examinations. The papers will then be read by the professors of the respective subjects and such of them as reach the standard required by the University will be sent back, with the numerical percentage marks attached, to the head-masters, who will then select one of the pupils thus passing the examination to receive the scholarship. But if none of the papers attain the University standard, no scholarship shall be awarded.

II. The same privileges under the same conditions and limitations shall be extended to the public schools of the whole country.

III. The University offers to the public schools of Virginia six academic Scholarships, two of which are to be filled annually (except when the occurence of vacancies leads to a modification) and such is to be held not longer than three years by the incumbent, who shall receive $200. per annum from the University and shall be exempted from the payment of the matriculation fee. Any scholar holding a scholarship under this provision who does not pass in at least one of his classes for the whole of any year shall forfeit his scholarship thereby.

In case of a vacancy occurring during the term of any incumbent at the beginning of a session it shall be filled by the appoint- for the unexpired term of the person receiving the next eligible mark at the preceding examination to those regularly appointed at that time. Should a vacancy occur during the session, it shall be filled for the remainder of the term, if any in a similar manner from the candidates at the following May examinations.

Each public school shall be allowed to name three, or less, of its white male graduates of the current session or candidates for graduation (who shall not be elligible unless they graduate that session) as candidates for scholarships, and these shall stand examinations in Latin, Mathematics and English, under the same regulations as stated above.

The University professors shall read and value the papers, and the scholarships shall be awarded to the candidates who receive the highest marks, provided those marks reach the University standard, and provided that not more than one candidate from any one school shall receive a scholarship the same year. Each successful candidate must enter upon his University course at the beggining of the session following his last session at the public schools, and if he voluntarily chooses to avail himself of the privileges of his scholarship, before his three years expire, he can not be reinstated.

IV. The existing University scholarships are hereby abolished.

Resolved: That $1100. be appropriated out of the Fayerweather money for the purpose of laying new gas mains and purchasing new material.

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of Profr Kent in response to the resolution of the Board of June 16th, 1897, the sum of $750. of the Linden Kent memorial fund be passed to the credit of the Linden Kent School of English Literature, and permanently invested by the Proctor, the proceeds to be used in advancing the work of the department; and that the balance of $4731 be appropriated in meeting expenses incident to the removal of said Professor to his new quarters or necessary to the welfare of his department.

The Chairman of the Faculty submitted a petition of Mr P. B. Jordan, asking the Board to order that he be refunded the fees paid by him in the Latin Course, for reasons stated in his petition, which request the Chairman of the Faculty thought should not be granted and so endorsed on the petition, and consideration it was

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of the Chairman the petition of Mr Jordan be not granted.

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty Mr James G. Wright of Washington, Georgia, be allowed an abatement of 2/3 s of his University fees for the present session.

Resolved: That the salary of H. Novick be increased from $60. per month to $75. per month, to date from Decr 1st 1897.

A communication from the Library Committee was recd and read, and on consideration the following was adopted:

Resolved: That the communication from the Library Committee be referred to the Proctor with the request

1st That he ascertain the cost of protecting the books, preferably by wire covered doors.

2d The cost of dumb waiters for the transfer of books from floor to floor.

3d The cost of the necessary detached books for general reference and of chairs and tables necessary for the library.

4th The cost of cataloguing the books.

5th That he be authorized to furnish the librarian such assistance as he may need and require in moving and transferring the books in the rotunda.

An application from the Washington and the Jefferson Literary Societies asking for an appropriation for furnishing etc. their respective Halls which was considered, and it was

Resolved: that the application be referred to the Proctor with instructions to him to make an investigation and report to the Executive Committee who shall have power to act.

A report of the Proctor accompanied by a financial statement being before the Board, the same was read and considered, and on motion it was

Resolved: That the report with the accompanying statement be spread on the minutes of the Board.

University of Va, Decr 7th 1897.

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Gentlemen,

I beg leave to submit for your information a statement of the financial transactions of the University of Virginia, since your annual meeting in June, in connection with the restoration fund, the Fayerweather bequest, and the sinking fund.

Disbursement of the Restoration Fund, and part of the Fayerweather Fund used as such, have been made by me as Proctor, on warrants from the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings on account of the Building Committee as authorized by a resolution of the Board of Visitors April 23d, 1897.

The statement herewith rendered you, gives only the amount of money that has been so far actually disbursed by this office on this account. The Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings will doubtless render you an account of the amounts already expended, and the amounts pledged, but as yet unpaid, for buildings, contracts and other purposes, as well as for apparatus for Physical and Mechanical Laboratories.

The Executive Committee, at its meeting August 20th, appropriated $5,385.00 for scientific apparatus for the Physical Laboratory in addition to the $3,500.00 from the Shields bequest, appropriated some time previously for the same object.

At the same meeting of the Executive Committee an appropriation of $5,363.00 with the addition of $2,500.00 of the Sinclair bequest, amounting to $7,863.00 was made to the Mechanical Laboratory for the equipment of apparatus.

These accounts have been kept by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings in connection with the Building Committee, and I am not advised as to what part of them as been paid or is yet to be paid. Doubtless you will be rendered an account by him, which, coupled with the accompanying statement from my office, will put you in possession of the true state of the restoration accounts to date, paid and unpaid.

The Restoration Fund proper, amounting in the aggregate to $328,624.54 was exhausted on the 8th of October, and by authority of the Executive Committee, disbursements on warrants from the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings on account of the Building Committee were then charged to the Fayerweather Fund.

The amount charged to the Fayerweather Fund to date is $29,992.20, making a total of disbursements on account of the Building Committee of $358,616.74 not including payment to contractors for the month of November, estimated by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings to be about $20,000. Payment to contractors for one month is made early in the succeeding month, and the warrant for November has not yet been presented for payment.

At a late meeting of the Executive Board, a resolution was passed appropriating $5000.00, the gift of J. Randolph Coolidge, to the carving of the capitals of the Rotunda porticos and the erection of statuary in the galery of the Rotunda.

The Library Fund actually paid into the Restoration Fund for the purpose of purchasing books has not been heretofore separated from that fund. It amounts to $375.00 to date.

The account of repairs and improvements submitted, shows the necessity for an additional appropriation by you to meet the necessary expenses of the University from December the 15th, the time the position of Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings will come under my charge, to July 1st, the end of the fiscal year. I respectfully suggest a pro-rata appropriation of the usual amount for the year.

By reference to my annual report you will recall that my predecessor had sold the bonds of Virginia 3s belonging to the Sinking Fund in order to re-invest the proceeds in the Virginia 2s (Century,) bonds. This I deemed to be the best investment to be made and it has been done with advantage to the University, the Century bonds having advanced materially in value since the investment.

The tabular statement accompanying this, shows the sinkfund of the $200,000. New debt (Bonds 10-40s) has been started in accordance with the action of the Board April 23d 1896, by placing $2000. to its credit. The total sinking fund to date for old and new debt is face falue $49,000.

It is necessary to renew the gas pipes and meters of the University as soon as practicable. For the period of six months ending October the 1st the period of smallest use of gas, the Charlottesville Gas Company was paid $286.29 for gas, and with meters attached to all pipes the receipts amounted to $143.05 only, showing a large leakage. With the large use of gas in the two new Laboratories the loss by leakage would be so large as to warrant at once, the necessary expenditure for new pipes and meters. I send an estimate for the amount needed and ask that an appropriation be made now for the work. It will be done under the supervision of H. Norrick, the head mechanic of the University, and as cheaply as possible.

Insurance has been effected for five years on reasonable terms, on the Rotunda and new buildings, including the Boiler House and contents, in June, and on the contents of the Laboratories, in November.

The boiler, with coal, engineer, and the steam connected apparatus, will be a serious expense, not heretofore incurred, unless they can be made partly self sustaining by the introduction of steam into the houses of the professors, and into the students rooms on the law. If the Board will authorize the Executive Committee to take such action as it deems advisable, the question may be carefully considered and decided.

I invite your attention to Dr Kent's letter and ask your approval of the plan suggested by him in reference to the balance due the Linden Kent Memorial School of English Literature, mentioned in my annual report to the Board in June. This suggestion accords with the invitation of the Board at that meeting, and in my judgment will be beneficial to the School and should be granted.

I enclose for your consideration, letters from Mr Robert C. Taylor, attorney at law, and from Mr Putney of the law firm of Putney & Bishop.

In conclusion I beg to state as a subject of interest, that of 465 students matriculated to date, in which checks large and small have been accepted, not one check has failed to be paid on demand.

I have the honor to be, Very truly yours,

(signed) Thos H. Carter, Proctor.

The "financial statement" made a part of the foregoing report, is in the following words and figures, to wit:

Restoration Fund - University of Virginia -

Estimate for material and expense of laying new Gas main and connections in grounds of University of Va

The following preamble and terms in respect to the Albemarle Telephone Company etc., was read, considered, and passed, and is in the following words and figures:

Whereas the Albemarle Telephone Company has applied for the privilege of placing poles and stringing wires on the University grounds in order to give telephone service to the University of Virginia & whereas the Interstate Telephone & Telegraph Co. already has such a privilege subject at will to the recall of the University authorities, be it resolved that all privileges heretofore granted to the Interstate Telephone & Telegraph Co. be and are hereby withdrawn & that both of the aforesaid companies be allowed to enter - grounds on the following conditions.

1st Only one set of poles is to be entered, to be used jointly by the two said companies, each company to bear half the cost of removal, erection & maintenance of the said poles, & in case of a disagreement between the companies as to this clause, the matter in dispute shall be laid before the superintendent of Grounds & Buildings of the University for arbitration, who shall hear both sides and his decision as to the matter in dispute, shall be final and binding on both companies.

2d The two said companies are given 15 days from the date of this resolution, in which to signify their desire to avail themselves of the privileges granted; and in the event of either failing to accept the conditions hereof the other company can go ahead along under this resolution, such changes being made in condition as are necessitated by there being only one company.

3.d All poles erected are to be straight wooden ones, painted two coats with green paint 8 feet up, of such a character and located at such places as seems proper to the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, and they, with the wires strung on them, shall be kept in such condition of repair as he may prescribe.

4.th No poles shall be erected at the Rotunda and no wires shall cross above the Terrace Roofs, nor shall there be any wires on the lawn.

5.th All privileges hereby granted can be withdrawn by the Executive Committee or by the Board of Visitors of the University without cause at pleasure, & the University shall not be liable for any damages ensuing either to the Telephone Companies or their subscribers.

6th In consideration of the privileges granted by these articles, either or both of the said telephone companies having accepted their conditions, shall go to work promptly and shall institute as soon as practicable a first class telephone service, which shall thereafter be maintained in first class servicable condition as long as they enjoy the concessions granted herein.

The Rector submitted a letter from the Architects, McKim, Mead & White which was read and considered, and on motion the following resolution was adopted.

Resolved= That the recommendations of the Architects, McKim, Mead & White, contained in their letter to the Rector dated Decr 10th 1897, be referred to the Building Committee, with directions that the suggestions contained in said letter be carried out as far as practicable, and that said letter be spread upon the minutes.

Said letter is in the following words & figures

Charlottesville, Decr 10th 1897.

Dr W. C. N. Randolph, Chairman,

After a careful inspection of the grounds and buildings, after an absence of two months, we were strongly impressed with the desirability of filing with the Building Committee a report and plan covering all further matters which we considered as necessary to the completed scheme of the University Buildings and the treatment of the surrounding grounds in order that all work from time to time ordered might be carried out on these consistent lines.

We should strongly recommend that the treatment of the new green, should be carried out in entirely the same manner, and that the double row of trees be carried through it. We consider the most important matters to be carried out as soon as possible (as far as the work is concerned) are, the painting white of the outside of the roof of the Rotunda, the painting of the interior of the dome and ceilings of the porches of the Rotunda, equalizing the color of the brickwork of the Rotunda, the building of the two small colonades connecting the Academical Building and the Physical and Mechanical Laboratories, the cutting of the caps and placing of the statues in the Rotunda, and a number of minor matters which we spoke about personally, especially the rebuilding of the north wall of the stare-way now constructing on the east side of the green descending to the roadway and the proper grading of the earth around the Physical Laboratory. The first of the new terrace lines on the green has been placed some thirty odd feet further south than shown on the plan or directed. These can be changed afterwards when the new buildings and connective colonades are built. We will send immediately as stated in the beginning of this letter a full report and plan for further work necessary to the completion of the buildings and laying out of the grounds.

Before it is too late we should earnestly recommend that the two large trees on the new green in front of the Physical Laboratory should be only topped to meet Profr. Smith's objection and that they should not be cut down.

We have the honor to remain,

Dr Randolph signified his purpose to resign as a member of the Board of Visitors, owing to the condition of his health, whereupon the following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved: That Dr W. C. N. Randolph be requested to reconsider his determination to resign as a member of the Board, as in their opinion the best interests of the University will be promoted by his continued service until the end of his term.

The Report of the Special Committee on Retrenchment referred in a resolution appearing on page 206 \[214\], of this book, is in the following words and figures, to wit:

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.-

The undersigned, Your Committee, appointed pursuant to the foregoing resolution, (the original resolution will be found on page 179 \[169-170\] of this book. Secretary) respectfully report:

The income of the University of Virginia for the present session is estimated in round numbers at $122,000. Of this sum the state contributes $50,000. in the form of its regular annuity. The residue, viz: $72,000. is derived from the fees of students and the income of the several endowment funds.

The estimated expenditures for the session of 1897-1898 will consume the entire amount of said $122,000, and these expenditures are all in the nature of fixed charges, except about $1850. of deficit. (See Annual Report of the Faculty to Visitors, dated June 5.th 1897 page 17) The experience of this Board, which has already in the past two years reduced the fixed charges of the institution on salary account by $8,200. net, i.e. salaries for 1895-1896 $77,750; salaries for 1897-1898 $69,550., (See Reports of Faculty, June, 1895, p. 14, and June 1897, p. 18) doubtless assures each member of an absolute necessity for the closest economy in its administrative affairs, and emphasises the importance of further curtailment of expenses, in view of new and yearly increasing demands, whenever such curtailment can be made without practical detriment to the progress and development of the institution.

It is therefore a matter of vital interest that there shall be on the part of the Visitors continued and careful scrutiny of the details of these fixed charges, with a view to effecting legitimate retrenchment wherever it may be made, not in the spirit of a timid restriction or an over-conservative contraction of the forees which it should be our high and enlightened duty to stimulate and enlarge,- but under the spur of a relentless necessity that retrenchment should be made.

Your Committee, therefore, begs leave to address itself, first, to the consideration of the present standing appropriations for salaries of professors and instructors. They find upon examination (Faculty Report, June 1897) that these appropriations aggregate $69,550.- a sum largely in excess of one half of the gross income of the University from all sources. The details of these appropriations are as follows:

It will be noted, parenthetically, that the figures given are those set out in the Faculty Report, and do not contemplate the changes, comparatively slight in amount, made in this estimate by the Visitors in June last.

For purposes of comparison and intelligent consideration, it is deemed desirable to review the field of the past twenty years instruction in the University, as measured solely by men and money,- by the number of students and the number of dollars paid by the University for their teaching. This is the material point of view, which the Visitors, as administrators of its business affairs, must of necessity take, however unalluring the talk; nor can it reflect in any way upon the character of the instruction given or the earnest and successful efforts of the accomplished and diligent gentlemen who have given it. It is a mere matter of fact.

Going back as far as 1874-75, we find from the catalogue of that session that the University had then fifteen (15) full professors, one (1) adjunct professor of Analytical and Agricultural Chemistry, one (1) demonstrator of Anatomy, and one (1) assistant instructor in Applied Mathematics.

On the basis of the standing appropriations for salaries for the current session, the salaries paid those gentlemen in 1874-75 would be as follows:

As against $69,550. in 1897-98, we have, therefore $48,350 in 1894-1895, a difference of $21,200.

But it will be replied, and properly replied, that real Universities move as the world moves, and that the University of Virginia should not fall in the procession, that a larger number of students are now taught here, and that they are better taught now than then. Without entering into the question of any other matter than that of the men and the money,- the students and the salaries,- let us see

Your Committee submits herewith a table prepared by a prominent Alumnus of the University, at the request of one of the Committee, from the printed catalogues of the University, covering the sessions from 1874-75 up to and including 1895-96, showing the numbers in the several departments, and the total attendance in all departments of the University for each session.

It may not be inappropriately remarked that this table is well worth our careful study; and that the legitimate deductions to be drawn from it, beyond those made hereafter for the specific purposes of this report, would seem at least calculated to give pause to the friends of the University of Virginia in their contemplation of her future as a competitor, as she has been hitherto, with the greater institutions of learning of America.

The total attendance of students from 1874-75 to 1895-96, inclusive, has been 8780, of which there are

In other words, the general attendance in 1896-97 was in excess of the average attendance for 22 years 104,- an increase of 2.6 per year.

The increase in the Medical Dept. in 1896-97 over the average attendance in that department for 22 years was 69,- an increase of 8.4 per year.

The increase in the Law Department in 1896-97 over the average for 22 years was 4 - an increase of nil per annum.

The increase in the Academic Department in 1896-97 over the average for 22 years was 33 - an increase of 1.6 per year.

The figures last given are especially significant in view of the fact that for a considerable portion of said 22 years the Academic schools of the University were not, as now, free of tuition fees to all Virginia students.

From the foregoing it will be seen that had the Academic Department made the same average per cent in increase per year as did the Medical Department, it should have had for 1896-97, 370 students instead of 234, the Law Department on the same ratio, should have had 212 instead of 119; and the total for the year should have been 833 instead of 504.

It will be doubtless argued that numbers are not fair criteria of the standing and excellence of an institution of learning, or of the character of the work done and the standard of scholarship; and this is from the highest standpoint true.

Yet if these figures have any significance they cannot fail to emphasize the fact that the opportunities of the student of 1896-97 over him of 1874-75 should be, to say the least, very great; and to cause this Board to consider whether in contemplation of the present condition of the finances of the Commonwealth, there should not be some lopping off somewhere, however much the necessity therefor may be deplored.

The Committee does not believe in the indiscriminate diminution of all salaries and compensation paid directly or indirectly by the Commonwealth to those who faithfully serve her; and most of all do its members stand for the liberal payment of educational service to our youth on whose future the Commonwealth must hereafter rest But that there is need of careful and vigerous readjustment of ways and means to methods and purposes in the University administration must be an inevitable conclusion.

Returning again directly to the subject under discussion, it will be noticed that associate professorships, adjunct professorships and instructorships have grown up almost imperceptibly, but none the less steadily, in the University in the last twenty years. It is not denied that these are desirable as conducive to the enlargement of the faculties of learning and instruction, but this Committee cannot without grave apprehension of future financial difficulties approve, under existing conditions, the continued policy which shall promote their future frequent establishment.

The Visitors are the servants of the Commonwealth. It is their duty to conserve no less her interests and those of her people, within their limited scope, than the interests of the University itself. It is for them to see "Ne respublica quid detrimenti copiat", so far as their administration of the University's business matters are concerned.

When Your Committee reflects that the present purchasing power of the money of exchange is greater than perhaps at any period within the dates heretofore mentioned, and that of all the State's officials there is none save the Governor and the five Judges of the Supreme Court of Appeals who receives a salary equal in amount to those paid the Professors of the University, we can feel little doubt that a reduction in amount paid for instruction will be practically acquiesced in by the Professors for the sake of the University no less than of the Commonwealth.

Before closing this report, Your Committee would advert to the salaries now paid officers of the University other than instructors as compared with those paid them in 1874-75.

In 1874-75 the salaried officers of the University were a Librarian who also performed the duties of Secretary of the Faculty at a salary of $1000., a Commissioner of accounts at a salary of $150. and a Proctor, who was also Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, at a salary of $2000., aggregating $3,150. Expenditures in this direction have been increased by a division of the labors of the Librarian, and the addition of a Secretary of the Faculty to the corps of officers, with an increase by reason of the salary of the latter of $1000. Without specifically recommending it, in the absence of more definite information as to the duties of the last named official, it is suggested that the Visitors might at least inquire into the expediency of consolidating the two offices at one salary as formerly.

The work of restoration having been practically completed, the further retention of the Acting Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings is unnecessary, and his salary of $100. per month can now be retrenched; as can that of the Clerk of the Building Committee, who has been receiving $50. per month.

Your Committee therefore respectfully recommend that after July 1st, 1898, the salaries of the Professors in the University be fixed at $3000. per annum; that the pavilions and residences in the University, except that of the Proctor, be rented to Professors at the annual rental of $250. each, giving to those who now occupy them the refusal of a continuance of occupation at said rental; that the commutations for rents heretofore granted Professors be abolished; that the instructorships in Latin, Physics and the English Language be abolished; that the temporary employment of a Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings cease, that the Clerkship of the Building Committee be abolished; and that the Visitors inquire into the expediency of consolidating the posts of Librarian and Secretary of the Faculty.

Your Committee estimate that, independent of the temporary charges affixed to the present employment of a special Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings and a Building Committee Clerk, this action, if now taken, will reduce the present fixed charges of the University by $7,000., as follows, viz -

As has been stated heretofore, the present Board of Visitors has, within the past two years, cut down the fixed charges of the University on salary account $8,200., without material inconvenience or disadvantage to the University, by the abolition of certain chairs and the assignment of the duties incident thereto, to other chairs, and by the re-arrangement of certain other Schools of the University. Should, therefore, the recommendation of the present report be accepted, there will have accomplished, within a period of two years, by the present Board of Visitors, a reduction of the fixed charges of the University of $15,000. in one direction, and with no sensible diminution of the University's capacity for usefulness.

Respectfully,

Armistead C. Gordon

Wm B. McIlwaine

Committee.

December 7th, 1897.

(See correspondence appended.)

Correspondence accompanying Report.

Will you kindly give me the following information:

1\. Number of residences and pavilions in the University now occupied by Professors: and by whom, respectively occupied.

2\. Number and names of Professors who receive commutations of rents.

Your kind attention will oblige,

Col. Thos H. Carter, Proctor of the University of Va.

Answering your favor of the 15th inst. I beg to submit the following

1st There are ten pavilions on the Lawn owned by the University, Nine of which are occupied by Professors and one by the Proctor.

There are two residences on Monroe Hill, and one at the Observatory owned by the University and occupied by professors.

2nd The pavilions on the East Lawn from North to South, are occupied in the order stated below:

Professor Harrison

Professor Kent

Professors Holmes & Perkinson

Professor Echols

Professor Lile

On West Lawn, same order as above:

Professor Tuttle

Proctor Carter

Professor Smith

Professor Davis

Professor Peters

On Monroe Hill

Professor Mallet

Professor Thornton

At Observatory

Professor Stone.

3d There are seven Professors receiving commutation of rents, viz: Drs Barringer, Buckmaster & Christian, Profs W. D. Dabney, Dunnington, Fontaine & Humphreys.

I regret that absence from my office to bring my youngest son home, now convalescent from an attack of Typhoid fever of two month's duration, has prevented an earlier reply to your letter.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Wishing to comply with the resolution adopted at the meeting of the Board on the 15th of June last (p. 169 \[156\] of the record), providing for a meeting during the month of November 1897, to further consider the question of a president for the University, I caused the secretary to sound the members as to whether the 26th of Nov. would suit them to attend. On hearing from them in reply, I became satisfied that the 10th of December was the earliest day on which a quorum of the Board could be gotten together, and I requested the Secretary to summon the Visitors to a meeting on that day, which was done.

After a careful inspection of the grounds and buildings, after an absence of two months, we were strongly impressed with the desirability of filing with the Building Committee a report and plan covering all further matters which we considered as necessary to the completed scheme of the University Buildings and the treatment of the surrounding grounds in order that all work from time to time ordered might be carried out on these consistent lines.

We should strongly recommend that the treatment of the new green, should be carried out in entirely the same manner, and that the double row of trees be carried through it. We consider the most important matters to be carried out as soon as possible (as far as the work is concerned) are, the painting white of the outside of the roof of the Rotunda, the painting of the interior of the dome and ceilings of the porches of the Rotunda, equalizing the color of the brickwork of the Rotunda, the building of the two small colonades connecting the Academical Building and the Physical and Mechanical Laboratories, the cutting of the caps and placing of the statues in the Rotunda, and a number of minor matters which we spoke about personally, especially the rebuilding of the north wall of the stare-way now constructing on the east side of the green descending to the roadway and the proper grading of the earth around the Physical Laboratory. The first of the new terrace lines on the green has been placed some thirty odd feet further south than shown on the plan or directed. These can be changed afterwards when the new buildings and connective colonades are built. We will send immediately as stated in the beginning of this letter a full report and plan for further work necessary to the completion of the buildings and laying out of the grounds.

Before it is too late we should earnestly recommend that the two large trees on the new green in front of the Physical Laboratory should be only topped to meet Profr. Smith's objection and that they should not be cut down.

We have the honor to remain,

Will you kindly give me the following information:

1\. Number of residences and pavilions in the University now occupied by Professors: and by whom, respectively occupied.

2\. Number and names of Professors who receive commutations of rents.

Your kind attention will oblige,

Answering your favor of the 15th inst. I beg to submit the following

1st There are ten pavilions on the Lawn owned by the University, Nine of which are occupied by Professors and one by the Proctor.

There are two residences on Monroe Hill, and one at the Observatory owned by the University and occupied by professors.

2nd The pavilions on the East Lawn from North to South, are occupied in the order stated below:

Professor Harrison

Professor Kent

Professors Holmes & Perkinson

Professor Echols

Professor Lile

On West Lawn, same order as above:

Professor Tuttle

Proctor Carter

Professor Smith

Professor Davis

Professor Peters

On Monroe Hill

Professor Mallet

Professor Thornton

At Observatory

Professor Stone.

3d There are seven Professors receiving commutation of rents, viz: Drs Barringer, Buckmaster & Christian, Profs W. D. Dabney, Dunnington, Fontaine & Humphreys.

I regret that absence from my office to bring my youngest son home, now convalescent from an attack of Typhoid fever of two month's duration, has prevented an earlier reply to your letter.

Wishing to comply with the resolution adopted at the meeting of the Board on the 15th of June last (p. 169 \[156\] of the record), providing for a meeting during the month of November 1897, to further consider the question of a president for the University, I caused the secretary to sound the members as to whether the 26th of Nov. would suit them to attend. On hearing from them in reply, I became satisfied that the 10th of December was the earliest day on which a quorum of the Board could be gotten together, and I requested the Secretary to summon the Visitors to a meeting on that day, which was done.

After a careful inspection of the grounds and buildings, after an absence of two months, we were strongly impressed with the desirability of filing with the Building Committee a report and plan covering all further matters which we considered as necessary to the completed scheme of the University Buildings and the treatment of the surrounding grounds in order that all work from time to time ordered might be carried out on these consistent lines.

We should strongly recommend that the treatment of the new green, should be carried out in entirely the same manner, and that the double row of trees be carried through it. We consider the most important matters to be carried out as soon as possible (as far as the work is concerned) are, the painting white of the outside of the roof of the Rotunda, the painting of the interior of the dome and ceilings of the porches of the Rotunda, equalizing the color of the brickwork of the Rotunda, the building of the two small colonades connecting the Academical Building and the Physical and Mechanical Laboratories, the cutting of the caps and placing of the statues in the Rotunda, and a number of minor matters which we spoke about personally, especially the rebuilding of the north wall of the stare-way now constructing on the east side of the green descending to the roadway and the proper grading of the earth around the Physical Laboratory. The first of the new terrace lines on the green has been placed some thirty odd feet further south than shown on the plan or directed. These can be changed afterwards when the new buildings and connective colonades are built. We will send immediately as stated in the beginning of this letter a full report and plan for further work necessary to the completion of the buildings and laying out of the grounds.

Before it is too late we should earnestly recommend that the two large trees on the new green in front of the Physical Laboratory should be only topped to meet Profr. Smith's objection and that they should not be cut down.

We have the honor to remain,

Will you kindly give me the following information:

1\. Number of residences and pavilions in the University now occupied by Professors: and by whom, respectively occupied.

2\. Number and names of Professors who receive commutations of rents.

Your kind attention will oblige,

Answering your favor of the 15th inst. I beg to submit the following

1st There are ten pavilions on the Lawn owned by the University, Nine of which are occupied by Professors and one by the Proctor.

There are two residences on Monroe Hill, and one at the Observatory owned by the University and occupied by professors.

2nd The pavilions on the East Lawn from North to South, are occupied in the order stated below:

Professor Harrison

Professor Kent

Professors Holmes & Perkinson

Professor Echols

Professor Lile

On West Lawn, same order as above:

Professor Tuttle

Proctor Carter

Professor Smith

Professor Davis

Professor Peters

On Monroe Hill

Professor Mallet

Professor Thornton

At Observatory

Professor Stone.

3d There are seven Professors receiving commutation of rents, viz: Drs Barringer, Buckmaster & Christian, Profs W. D. Dabney, Dunnington, Fontaine & Humphreys.

I regret that absence from my office to bring my youngest son home, now convalescent from an attack of Typhoid fever of two month's duration, has prevented an earlier reply to your letter.
