---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1898'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Committee on Organization of the State of Virginia.

Prof. Perkinson, Chairman, Col Peters and Dr Mallet

$1000.00

Committee on Canvassing outside of Virginia

Dr Barringer Chairman, Profrs Tuttle and Page

$1000.00

Committee on Bureau of Correspondence and Literature:

Dr Kent Chairman, Profrs R. H. Dabney and Stone

$ 500.00

Committee on Endowment and Benefactions:

Profr Thornton Chairman, Profrs Lile and Barringer

$ 250.00

Committee on Alumni:

Col Thos H. Carter Chairman, Profs J. S. Davis and Minor

$ 250.00

Two Fellowships $300.

$ 600.00

Three Scholarships 250.

750.00

Prof. Tuttle's salary

3000.00

Prof. Thornton's salary

700.00

Prof. Dunnington's salary

500.00

Contribution for advertising

100.00

Equipment, books etc.

350.00

$6000.00

State annuity.

$ 43,750.

Corcoran Fund.

6,000.

Miller Fund.

6,000.

Linden Kent Fund.

3,000.

Astronomical Fund.

4,455.

Madison Fund. $156. Gordon Fund $300.

456.

Brown Fund.

120.

Mason Fund.

210.

Sinking Fund.

,660.

Rent of Temperance Hall etc.

1,056.

Estimated fees from 520 students

59,540.

Total

$125,247.

20 Professors

60,000.

1 Associate

1,600.

2 Adjuncts

3,000.

Instructor in Physics

600.

Instructor in Latin

600.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

600.

Demonstrator of Path. & Biol.

600.

Instructor in English

300.

Instructor in Phys. Culture

1,250.

Instructor in Engineering

600.

69,150.

Officers:

Chairman.

500.

Proctor

2 000.

Secretary of Proctor

600.

Secretary of Faculty

800.

Secretary of Board

300.

Commr of accounts

100.

Librarian

800.

5,100.

Scholarships and Fellowships:

3 Astronomical Fellowships:

1,100.

2 Biol. Fellowships:

600.

3 Miller Scholarships

750.

1 Temporary Scholarships (See Miller Board report)

000.

Brown Scholarships

120.

Mason Fellowship

210.

2 State Scholarships

400.

3,180.

Interest & Sinking Fund

Sinking Fund (old debt)

2,050.

Sinking Fund (New debt)

2,000.

Interest Fund (old debt)

5,170.

Interest Fund (New debt)

10,000.

Interest on Sinking fund

660.

19,880.

Miscellaneous:

97,310.

Repairs & Improvements:

5 000.

Commutation of rents

2 400.

Contingent fund

1 500.

8.900.

Employes:

Janitor & Plumber

900.

Day Policeman

480.

Night Policeman

360.

Janitor Rotunda

300.

Janitor Museum

180.

Janitor Chem. Laboratory

135.

Janitor Anatom Hall

240.

Janitor Gymnasium

225.

Janitor New Hall

135.

Janitor Dispensary

100.

Janitor New Buildings

135.

3 190.

Engineer & fireman

500.

3,690.

Laborers

1,000.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

4,810.

Working Expenses:

Alumni Bulletin

200.

Observatory

355.

Agricult. & Biology

350.

Chemical Dept

350.

Physical Dept

300.

Engineering Dept

200.

Astronomical Material

300.

Histiological Dept

350.

2,405.

Min. & Geol Dept

25.

Law Dept

150.

Dispensary

400.

Hospital

600.

Library

456.

Diplomas

300.

Printing blanks

200.

Catalogues & Postage

1 000.

Advertising

600.

Special Committees - Advertising

3,000.

Gymnasium

450.

Fuel

1 500.

Lights

1 000.

Pathological Laboratory

250.

Wash. & Jeff. Socs

100.

12,436.

Infirmary Expenses

750.

Other Expenses

850.

1,600.

$125,056

#3,013

$1,000.

#3,026

1,000.

Registered Virginia

2 - 3 Bonds

#439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

Statement.

Sinking Fund Old Debt.

Amount received of you

$13,970.

Bought $19,400. Va Cent. Bonds 72 1/4 & 1/4 com.

14,065.

Debit—

$95.

Bonds registered and held for above:

No. 442

$10,000.

382

5,000.

1062/1065, $1000. each

4,000.

1243/1246, $100. each

400.

$19,400.

Sinking Fund New Debt

Amount received of you

$ 1,030.

Bought $1,400. Va Cent. Bonds 72 1/4 & 1/4 com.

1,015.

Credit.

$15.

Bonds registered and held for above

No. 1066

$1,000.

1247/1250 $100. each

400.

$ 1,400.

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 13th of June 1898.

Present, Charles P. Jones, Rector and Visitors Harmon, Bryan, Miles, Glass, Irvine, and Downing.

The Chairman of the Faculty submitted the following annual reports:

The Faculty's report, Proctor's report, Commr of Account's report, Librarian's report and the several school reports.

The Rector made the following appointments of Standing Committees:

Finance:

Messrs Harmon, Downing and Glass.

Library & Apparatus:

Messrs Bryan, McIlwaine & Miles.

Conduct of Schools and examination students:

Messrs Miles, Irvine & Chandler.

Buildings & Grounds:

Messrs Glass, Bryan & Downing.

Health, Infirmary, Sewerage & Drainage:

Messrs Irvine, McIlwaine & Chandler.

Miller Board:

Messrs McIlwaine, Harman & Glass.

The following was enacted:

The Executive Committee having reported that Ross F. Tucker, Esq. Contractor has failed to lay before them any evidence on which they could act on the three items of his account referred to them, and the Board having maturely considered said items; and the representation of Mr Tucker, he having stated that the settlement proposed at the last meeting of the Board is declined by him, on motion

Resolved: That the three items aforesaid, to wit, $745.- 45 claimed for concrete steps, $125.34 claimed for work on Physical Building and $34.67 claimed for work on the Mechanical Building, be rejected.

Resolved: That the appropriation for Mechanical Appara- tus be increased by the sum of $350.00

Resolved: That Mr Joseph Bryan of the Board, be appointed a Committee to investigate the condition of the investments made by the trustees under the will of Arthur W. Austin of Milton, Mass. decd, and report to the Board the character of said investments, their value, solvency etc. Said Bryan is authorized, if he shall deem it necessary to do so, to employ Counsel to assist him in such investigation and to draw on the Proctor for such expenses as he incurs in the premises.

The death of Mr R. G. H. Kean, a former member of the Board of Visitors and for a time Rector, having been suggested, On motion, Mr Glass was requested to prepare memorial resolutions of Mr Kean for the action of the Board in regard thereto.

Resolved, that the Rector be authorized to execute the authority to sell the tract of land of the Austin estate referred to in the letter of Mr Bentley W. Warren to the Proctor, which letter is in the following words and figures, to wit:

You may recall that last summer a part of the piece of real estate owned by the trustees under Mr Austin's will was taken by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for park purposes. This left a small piece of the estate, containing about 5000 square feet, with restrictions against building on a part of it, thus rendering the lot really unavailable. We have now received an offer of $800.00 for this piece of land, which we consider it would be advantageous for the estate to accept. We have therefore prepared a petition to the probate court for leave to sell the remainder of the estate. If this meets with your approval will you kindly sign the assent to the enclosed petition, and as the purchaser is in something of a hurry, I would ask you to return the petition at your earliest convenience.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9 1/2 A. M. tomorrow.

Charles P. Jones, Rector

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

The Board of Visitors met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr Chandler.

The Rector submitted and had read to the Board a letter from Mr C. Spi. Kanta of Colombo, Ceylon, addressed to him, on consideration whereof it was

Resolved, that the Secretary be, and he is hereby directed to advise Mr Spi-Kanta, that the only way to obtain a degree at this institution is to take a prescribed course of study here and then pass a satisfactory written examination thereon, and this is the invariable rule.

Resolved, that the Health officers be requested to report to the Board a statement of the investments made by them of the infirmary fund required to be made by section 296 of the University laws.

In response to the foregoing resolution Dr Barringer of the Committee was before the Board and reported verbally that no investment of the fund had been made, but that the amount had been carried each year into the general fund.

Mr Glass reported the following resolutions with regard to the death of Mr Kean, which were read and on motion they were unanimously adopted. viz

1\. Resolved, That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has learned with sorrow of the death on Monday June 13th 1898, at his home in Lynchburg, Va, of R. G. H. Kean, Esq, who for eight years was a member of the Board, and about half of which time, Rector of the institution. As a tribute to the memory of the deceased, the Board desires to express its high estimate of his character as a man and his influence as a citizen of the Commonwealth, but especially its great appreciation of his usefulness while a member of this Board and for a portion of that time the official head of the University. 2nd Resolved: That this resolution be spread upon the records of the Board and a copy of it forwarded by the Secretary to the family of Mr Kean.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty nominate to the Board by and with the advice and consent of the Faculty, five standing Committees of the Faculty who shall take in hand the organization of all elements, interests and influences looking to the increase of the patronage of the University and of its endowment and material wealth; that these Committees shall consist of

1st A Committee to organize the good will of the University in the State of Virginia and bring its schools and advantages to the attention of the citizens of this Commonwealth.

2nd A Committee to secure Endowments and Benefactions.

3d A Committee on establishing and conducting a Literary and Correspondence Bureau.

4th A Committee to put in the field Canvassers to bring the University to the attention of prospective students and citizens of the other states of the Union.

5th A Committee of local Alumni or Faculty to organize Alumni Associations throughout the Union and to look after the Alumni in every way possible, to keep them in touch with the University.

Resolved further: That to carry out the purposes of this resolution the following sums be appropriated: 1st $1000.00 for the Committee on State organization. 2nd $1000.00 for canvassing outside of the State. 3d $500 00 for the Committee on Literature and correspondence. 4th $250 00 for the Committee on Alumni and 5th $250 00 for the Committee on Endowments and Benefactions.

The Chairman of the Faculty in accordance with the above resolution recommended the following Committees:

Committees of Faculty for Summer Advertising, etc.

On motion it was

Resolved: that the said Committees be appointed and requested to report to this Board at its next meeting.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr Glass who was called home.

The Board elected as the Executive Committee for the ensuing year Messrs Harmon, Chairman, Jones the Rector, Bryan, Glass and Miles.

Dr P. B. Barringer was unanimously re-elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

The following was enacted:

Whereas Prof. Wm M. Thornton of the Chair of Applied Mathematics in this University is an applicant before the President of the United States for the position of Assistant Commissioner for special work in the Department of Engineering at the Paris Exposition of 1900, therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia assure the President that such appointment would be received with approval and appreciation by this Board and by the people of Virginia; that we further assure the President that Mr Thornton is preeminently equipped for work of this kind and will reflect credit on such an occasion; that the Secretary of this Board be directed to transmit this resolution to the President of the United States.

Resolved: That the building formerly occupied by the late Major Peyton be set aside for the use of the Alumni under the direction of the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and that he be authorized to make such expenditure as may be necessary to furnish and keep said building ready for the use and occupancy by our Visiting Alumni.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors have learned with gratification that there is a desire on the part of the Alumni of the University to erect on these grounds an Alumni Memorial Hall which shall be used not only for preserving memorials of distinguished Alumni but as a place where visiting Alumni may meet and for such other purposes as the Alumni may prescribe.

The Board will grant a suitable location for the building and will appropriate $1000. towards its construction and will give such other assistance as the resources of the University will permit.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to Mr Samuel Spencer of New York, for his kindness in furnishing a special train to Mr James C. Carter and other friends and Alumni of the University, and for other generous offers of assistance in this and other directions on this commencement occasion.

Resolved: That the Board accepts with pleasure the offer of Mr Charles Gould of New York, communicated to the Board, to have printed an edition of Mr James C. Carter's Speech for the University, and thanks him for his generous offer.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to the Hon. James C. Carter of New York, for his able address on the occasion of the dedication of the new buildings, and take this occasion on behalf of the University, its Alumni and friends to express their great appreciation of the value of his address to the cause of education and good government.

Resolved: That the following recommendations of the Miller Board be adopted: viz,

"Appropriation of the Miller Fund, recommended by the Miller Board:

The board has to its credit on account of Scholarships in addition to the above and unappropriated, $133 00 which was unexpended under one of the last year's scholarships. The Miller Board earnestly recommends that this sum be given to Mr J. N. Michie, a most worthy Miller School boy who is unable to attend the University. This sum to be donated provided his friends will raise any additional sum necessary to his expenses at the University and the Board of Visitors authority that he may enter upon same terms as if he were appointed to a scholarship. This however is not to be considered as the establishment of an additional scholarship, but an arrangement for this one year only."

Resolved: That Mr H. C. Ford of Charlotte County be given the Mason Fellowship for the session of 1898-99.

Resolved: That the Proctor, at the earliest practicable moment, restore the sinking fund to its full amount by the purchase of Virginia Century bonds.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed to deposit with the Virginia Trust Company at Richmond, Va, or with some other Trust Company which may be approved by the Finance Committee of this Board, all the bonds, stocks or other securities belonging to the University of Virginia, whether invested funds of endowed chairs or scholarships, the securities of the Sinking Fund or other special funds, and shall take the receipt of the Depositary Company giving a list of the securities in detail. The bonds and stocks shall, as far as it may be done, be registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and may be transferred only upon the authority of the Proctor and two of the members of the Finance Committee. The Depositary shall collect all interest as the same accrues upon any of the securities and shall deposit the same to the credit of the Proctor of the University who shall have the right to check for the same.

The Depositary shall collect any bond or other security as it matures and shall deposit the same to a special investment account to be drawn upon by the Proctor for the purchase of such securities as may be approved by two of the Finance Committee, and such securities when paid for shall be delivered to the Depositary and be held for account of the same fund from which the purchase money was derived.

A special account shall be kept of each Fund and the reinvestments thereof.

All purchases of securities for any fund herein provided for shall be made by the Proctor, by and with the approval of two members of the Finance Committee.

The compensation of the Depositary shall be such as may be agreed upon between said Depositary and the Proctor, and two members of the Finance Committee.

Mr Glass returned and resumed his seat in the session.

On motion the Board adjourned until 9 1/2 A. M. tomorrow.

University of Va, June 16th 1898.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday.

Present the same members as on yesterday with the exception of Messrs Downing and Chandler.

The following was enacted:

Whereas it has been suggested that the salary of the instructor of Physical Culture should be increased,

Resolved: That the Board desires to express its appreciation of Dr Lambeth's work, but it cannot at this time grant the increase.

Resolved: That the Proctor be instructed to pay the balance of the account of $5148 14 due to Messrs McKim, Mead & White.

Resolved: That the resolution adopted yesterday, appointing Mr Ford to the John Y. Mason Fellowship, be reconsidered, and that matter of the bestowal of that Fellowship be referred to the Executive Committee, for action.

Ordered, that the Proctor be authorized to make six dormitories of the Temperance Hall upper floor at a cost not exceeding $500.00.

The Proctor submitted to the Board a communication received by him from Henry L. Higginson, Esq, Treasurer of J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation, and papers accompanying, which are in the following words and figures, to wit:-

I enclose to you herewith cheque for $20,000.00 being a gift from the J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation, which was voted to you by the trustees on June 10th, 1898. With this gift goes a copy of the vote under which you must receive this gift or return it to me as trea- surer.

The Trustees are very glad to be able to send you this sum of money from this old lady (Miss Randall) both as a proof of their high appreciation of the University of Virginia and also as a mark of sentiment towards your great institution of learning.

On June 10th, 1898 it was

Voted that the sum of twenty thousand dollars be given to the University of Virginia, on condition that it shall either be used for the erection of a building to be known as the "John W. and Belinda Randall Building", or be invested by the said University and held as a permanent fund, to be known as the "John W. and Belinda Randall Fund", the income only to be used either for Randall scholarships or for other needs of said University.

On June 10th, 1898 it was voted further that the gifts to the Massachusetts General Hospital, the Massachusetts Charitable Eye and Ear Infirmary, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology shall be subject to the further conditions that in case of assistance being called for by the Executors or Administrators of said Belinda Randall for any of the five contingent beneficiaries named in the second codicil to her will, the same, but not to exceed in any one year the income of the fund received (or in case of the investment of the fund as permitted by the conditions of the gift in building or the like, what would be the income of such fund if invested at four per cent per annum) shall be furnished by said institutions proportionately to the capital sum received by them respectively, provided, however, that any further amounts heretofore given from the Randall Fund to the same or other institutions upon similar conditions shall bear their like share. But in the event of the inability of any of these donees to respond, the others shall, subject to the limitations aforesaid, furnish the whole of such assistance.

Which being read and considered, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted

Resolved, That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia acknowledge the receipt of $20,000. from Henry L. Higginson, Treasurer of J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation subject to the stipulations and conditions contained in the accompanying resolutions passed by the Trustees of said Corporation the 10th day of June 1898 which are hereby accepted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

2d Resolved further: That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in acknowledging this benefaction desire to express to the Trustees of the J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation not only their gratitude for this important contribution to the resources of the University which is just rising from the ashes of a great disaster but their cordial appreciation of the sentiments of good will and encouragement with which the gift was conveyed. From no source would such evidences of fraternal interest be more acceptable to the University of Virginia than from the people of a sister Commonwealth which was so conspicuously associated with Virginia in establishing the Republic, and which has done so much for the cause of education.

Resolved: That the Faculty be requested to report to the next meeting of this Board to be held about Oct. 1st what disposition they would recommend of the Randall donation.

Resolved: That the salary of Profr Echols be fixed at $3000., and that Profr Page be elected an associate professor in the School of Mathematics at a salary of $1600.

Resolved: That the salary of Profr Perkinson be fixed at $3000.

Resolved: That the Proctor be authorized to remodel and enlarge the former Hartsook building at a cost not exceeding $1500.00 out of the Fayerweather money, for the purpose of future rental, and furthermore that his clerk, I. K. Moran, be allowed to occupy said building for the ensuing year free of rent.

The Board having declined to renew the appropriation of $500. for the expense of publishing the Annals of Mathematics, Prof. Echols appeared before the Board and stated that if the Board would permit the continuance of the publication for another year it should be done without cost to the University provided the Board would resume the cost of publication not to exceed $500. next year, if the funds of the University would, in the judgment of the Board permit the appropriation, whereup it was

Resolved: that the Board accepts the proposition of Prof. Echols and will renew the appropriation of $500. next year - 1898-99 for the Annals of Mathematics provided the funds of the University will permit the appropriation.

"Mr Bryan submitted the following paper to the Board and moved the adoption of the resolution: Mr Bryan stated that at the request of Mr Samuel B. Woods he desired to call the attention of the Board to the letter which was addressed to the late Board by Profr James H. Gilmore to which Profr Gilmore thinks he should have received a reply. Mr Woods also requested the Board to examine sundry letters now in the possession of Mr Miles which Prof. Gilmore received from a number of his students testifying to his merit as a teacher. This examination to be made with a view to some communication from the Board to Profr Gilmore relieving him of the current imputation that his instruction was inefficient."

"Mr Bryan moved that Profr Gilmore's letter and the other letters be referred to a Committee composed of the Rector and Messrs Chandler and Downing with the request that they examine the subject and make report to a subsequent meeting of this Board what action if any the Board should take in the premises."

Upon considering which the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved: That the communication of Mr Bryan with reference to Mr James H. Gilmore be spread upon the records of the Board, but this Board, as now constituted, does not deem it desirable or proper to re-open the matter referred to or to attempt to review the action of the Board as formerly constituted, and in taking this action the Board does not think it amiss to repeat to Mr Woods in behalf of Mr Gilmore the expression of the greatest respect for Mr Gilmore personally and for his attainments as a lawyer contained in the resolution of the Board adopted June 17th 1896.

Resolved further, that the Secretary of the Board communicate a copy of this action to Mr Woods for Mr Gilmore.

The Finance Committee submitted its report which is in the following words and figures, to wit:-

The following being an estimate of the income for the year 1898-99:

The following appropriations are recommended for the year 1898-99:

On motion it was

Resolved: That the report of the Finance Committee be approved and adopted, together with its recommendations.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Jas D. Jones, Secretary.

Charles P. Jones Rector

The following are copies of a correspondence between the Virginia Trust Company and Col Thomas H. Carter, Proctor in relation to caring for the securities and handling the Sinking Fund accounts of the University by said Company, which correspondence is copied in this book, upon the request of Col Carter it having been suggested to him by Mr Daniel Harmon, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board:

Referring to interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University,- We beg to state our construction of agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same.

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration.

To receive $25 00 per annum for the following, viz: Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of Sinking Fund Old Debt, Collect the income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instruction of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered.

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to State that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed,

We have your favor 22nd and are in receipt of securities listed in same by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each, $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000 from Coupon to Registered. This cost us $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit.

We have opened an account "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R.R. Co 6% Bonds

Account of "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, New Debt."

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1,060 $1,000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below, and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice this makes the Sinking Fund Account Old Debt, show debit of $95. and to the Credit of Sinking Fund Account New Debt $15.00

Copies, Teste,

You may recall that last summer a part of the piece of real estate owned by the trustees under Mr Austin's will was taken by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for park purposes. This left a small piece of the estate, containing about 5000 square feet, with restrictions against building on a part of it, thus rendering the lot really unavailable. We have now received an offer of $800.00 for this piece of land, which we consider it would be advantageous for the estate to accept. We have therefore prepared a petition to the probate court for leave to sell the remainder of the estate. If this meets with your approval will you kindly sign the assent to the enclosed petition, and as the purchaser is in something of a hurry, I would ask you to return the petition at your earliest convenience.

Committee on Organization of the State of Virginia.

Prof. Perkinson, Chairman, Col Peters and Dr Mallet

$1000.00

Committee on Canvassing outside of Virginia

Dr Barringer Chairman, Profrs Tuttle and Page

$1000.00

Committee on Bureau of Correspondence and Literature:

Dr Kent Chairman, Profrs R. H. Dabney and Stone

$ 500.00

Committee on Endowment and Benefactions:

Profr Thornton Chairman, Profrs Lile and Barringer

$ 250.00

Committee on Alumni:

Col Thos H. Carter Chairman, Profs J. S. Davis and Minor

$ 250.00

The Board of Visitors met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr Chandler.

The Rector submitted and had read to the Board a letter from Mr C. Spi. Kanta of Colombo, Ceylon, addressed to him, on consideration whereof it was

Resolved, that the Secretary be, and he is hereby directed to advise Mr Spi-Kanta, that the only way to obtain a degree at this institution is to take a prescribed course of study here and then pass a satisfactory written examination thereon, and this is the invariable rule.

Resolved, that the Health officers be requested to report to the Board a statement of the investments made by them of the infirmary fund required to be made by section 296 of the University laws.

In response to the foregoing resolution Dr Barringer of the Committee was before the Board and reported verbally that no investment of the fund had been made, but that the amount had been carried each year into the general fund.

Mr Glass reported the following resolutions with regard to the death of Mr Kean, which were read and on motion they were unanimously adopted. viz

1\. Resolved, That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has learned with sorrow of the death on Monday June 13th 1898, at his home in Lynchburg, Va, of R. G. H. Kean, Esq, who for eight years was a member of the Board, and about half of which time, Rector of the institution. As a tribute to the memory of the deceased, the Board desires to express its high estimate of his character as a man and his influence as a citizen of the Commonwealth, but especially its great appreciation of his usefulness while a member of this Board and for a portion of that time the official head of the University. 2nd Resolved: That this resolution be spread upon the records of the Board and a copy of it forwarded by the Secretary to the family of Mr Kean.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty nominate to the Board by and with the advice and consent of the Faculty, five standing Committees of the Faculty who shall take in hand the organization of all elements, interests and influences looking to the increase of the patronage of the University and of its endowment and material wealth; that these Committees shall consist of

1st A Committee to organize the good will of the University in the State of Virginia and bring its schools and advantages to the attention of the citizens of this Commonwealth.

2nd A Committee to secure Endowments and Benefactions.

3d A Committee on establishing and conducting a Literary and Correspondence Bureau.

4th A Committee to put in the field Canvassers to bring the University to the attention of prospective students and citizens of the other states of the Union.

5th A Committee of local Alumni or Faculty to organize Alumni Associations throughout the Union and to look after the Alumni in every way possible, to keep them in touch with the University.

Resolved further: That to carry out the purposes of this resolution the following sums be appropriated: 1st $1000.00 for the Committee on State organization. 2nd $1000.00 for canvassing outside of the State. 3d $500 00 for the Committee on Literature and correspondence. 4th $250 00 for the Committee on Alumni and 5th $250 00 for the Committee on Endowments and Benefactions.

The Chairman of the Faculty in accordance with the above resolution recommended the following Committees:

Committees of Faculty for Summer Advertising, etc.

On motion it was

Resolved: that the said Committees be appointed and requested to report to this Board at its next meeting.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

Two Fellowships $300.

$ 600.00

Three Scholarships 250.

750.00

Prof. Tuttle's salary

3000.00

Prof. Thornton's salary

700.00

Prof. Dunnington's salary

500.00

Contribution for advertising

100.00

Equipment, books etc.

350.00

$6000.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr Glass who was called home.

The Board elected as the Executive Committee for the ensuing year Messrs Harmon, Chairman, Jones the Rector, Bryan, Glass and Miles.

Dr P. B. Barringer was unanimously re-elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

The following was enacted:

Whereas Prof. Wm M. Thornton of the Chair of Applied Mathematics in this University is an applicant before the President of the United States for the position of Assistant Commissioner for special work in the Department of Engineering at the Paris Exposition of 1900, therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia assure the President that such appointment would be received with approval and appreciation by this Board and by the people of Virginia; that we further assure the President that Mr Thornton is preeminently equipped for work of this kind and will reflect credit on such an occasion; that the Secretary of this Board be directed to transmit this resolution to the President of the United States.

Resolved: That the building formerly occupied by the late Major Peyton be set aside for the use of the Alumni under the direction of the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and that he be authorized to make such expenditure as may be necessary to furnish and keep said building ready for the use and occupancy by our Visiting Alumni.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors have learned with gratification that there is a desire on the part of the Alumni of the University to erect on these grounds an Alumni Memorial Hall which shall be used not only for preserving memorials of distinguished Alumni but as a place where visiting Alumni may meet and for such other purposes as the Alumni may prescribe.

The Board will grant a suitable location for the building and will appropriate $1000. towards its construction and will give such other assistance as the resources of the University will permit.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to Mr Samuel Spencer of New York, for his kindness in furnishing a special train to Mr James C. Carter and other friends and Alumni of the University, and for other generous offers of assistance in this and other directions on this commencement occasion.

Resolved: That the Board accepts with pleasure the offer of Mr Charles Gould of New York, communicated to the Board, to have printed an edition of Mr James C. Carter's Speech for the University, and thanks him for his generous offer.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to the Hon. James C. Carter of New York, for his able address on the occasion of the dedication of the new buildings, and take this occasion on behalf of the University, its Alumni and friends to express their great appreciation of the value of his address to the cause of education and good government.

Resolved: That the following recommendations of the Miller Board be adopted: viz,

"Appropriation of the Miller Fund, recommended by the Miller Board:

The board has to its credit on account of Scholarships in addition to the above and unappropriated, $133 00 which was unexpended under one of the last year's scholarships. The Miller Board earnestly recommends that this sum be given to Mr J. N. Michie, a most worthy Miller School boy who is unable to attend the University. This sum to be donated provided his friends will raise any additional sum necessary to his expenses at the University and the Board of Visitors authority that he may enter upon same terms as if he were appointed to a scholarship. This however is not to be considered as the establishment of an additional scholarship, but an arrangement for this one year only."

Resolved: That Mr H. C. Ford of Charlotte County be given the Mason Fellowship for the session of 1898-99.

Resolved: That the Proctor, at the earliest practicable moment, restore the sinking fund to its full amount by the purchase of Virginia Century bonds.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed to deposit with the Virginia Trust Company at Richmond, Va, or with some other Trust Company which may be approved by the Finance Committee of this Board, all the bonds, stocks or other securities belonging to the University of Virginia, whether invested funds of endowed chairs or scholarships, the securities of the Sinking Fund or other special funds, and shall take the receipt of the Depositary Company giving a list of the securities in detail. The bonds and stocks shall, as far as it may be done, be registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and may be transferred only upon the authority of the Proctor and two of the members of the Finance Committee. The Depositary shall collect all interest as the same accrues upon any of the securities and shall deposit the same to the credit of the Proctor of the University who shall have the right to check for the same.

The Depositary shall collect any bond or other security as it matures and shall deposit the same to a special investment account to be drawn upon by the Proctor for the purchase of such securities as may be approved by two of the Finance Committee, and such securities when paid for shall be delivered to the Depositary and be held for account of the same fund from which the purchase money was derived.

A special account shall be kept of each Fund and the reinvestments thereof.

All purchases of securities for any fund herein provided for shall be made by the Proctor, by and with the approval of two members of the Finance Committee.

The compensation of the Depositary shall be such as may be agreed upon between said Depositary and the Proctor, and two members of the Finance Committee.

Mr Glass returned and resumed his seat in the session.

On motion the Board adjourned until 9 1/2 A. M. tomorrow.

I enclose to you herewith cheque for $20,000.00 being a gift from the J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation, which was voted to you by the trustees on June 10th, 1898. With this gift goes a copy of the vote under which you must receive this gift or return it to me as trea- surer.

The Trustees are very glad to be able to send you this sum of money from this old lady (Miss Randall) both as a proof of their high appreciation of the University of Virginia and also as a mark of sentiment towards your great institution of learning.

Referring to interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University,- We beg to state our construction of agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same.

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration.

To receive $25 00 per annum for the following, viz: Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of Sinking Fund Old Debt, Collect the income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instruction of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered.

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to State that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed,

#3,013

$1,000.

#3,026

1,000.

Registered Virginia

2 - 3 Bonds

#439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

We have your favor 22nd and are in receipt of securities listed in same by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each, $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000 from Coupon to Registered. This cost us $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit.

We have opened an account "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R.R. Co 6% Bonds

Account of "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, New Debt."

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1,060 $1,000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below, and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice this makes the Sinking Fund Account Old Debt, show debit of $95. and to the Credit of Sinking Fund Account New Debt $15.00

You may recall that last summer a part of the piece of real estate owned by the trustees under Mr Austin's will was taken by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for park purposes. This left a small piece of the estate, containing about 5000 square feet, with restrictions against building on a part of it, thus rendering the lot really unavailable. We have now received an offer of $800.00 for this piece of land, which we consider it would be advantageous for the estate to accept. We have therefore prepared a petition to the probate court for leave to sell the remainder of the estate. If this meets with your approval will you kindly sign the assent to the enclosed petition, and as the purchaser is in something of a hurry, I would ask you to return the petition at your earliest convenience.

Committee on Organization of the State of Virginia.

Prof. Perkinson, Chairman, Col Peters and Dr Mallet

$1000.00

Committee on Canvassing outside of Virginia

Dr Barringer Chairman, Profrs Tuttle and Page

$1000.00

Committee on Bureau of Correspondence and Literature:

Dr Kent Chairman, Profrs R. H. Dabney and Stone

$ 500.00

Committee on Endowment and Benefactions:

Profr Thornton Chairman, Profrs Lile and Barringer

$ 250.00

Committee on Alumni:

Col Thos H. Carter Chairman, Profs J. S. Davis and Minor

$ 250.00

The Board of Visitors met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present, the same members as on yesterday with the addition of Mr Chandler.

The Rector submitted and had read to the Board a letter from Mr C. Spi. Kanta of Colombo, Ceylon, addressed to him, on consideration whereof it was

Resolved, that the Secretary be, and he is hereby directed to advise Mr Spi-Kanta, that the only way to obtain a degree at this institution is to take a prescribed course of study here and then pass a satisfactory written examination thereon, and this is the invariable rule.

Resolved, that the Health officers be requested to report to the Board a statement of the investments made by them of the infirmary fund required to be made by section 296 of the University laws.

In response to the foregoing resolution Dr Barringer of the Committee was before the Board and reported verbally that no investment of the fund had been made, but that the amount had been carried each year into the general fund.

Mr Glass reported the following resolutions with regard to the death of Mr Kean, which were read and on motion they were unanimously adopted. viz

1\. Resolved, That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has learned with sorrow of the death on Monday June 13th 1898, at his home in Lynchburg, Va, of R. G. H. Kean, Esq, who for eight years was a member of the Board, and about half of which time, Rector of the institution. As a tribute to the memory of the deceased, the Board desires to express its high estimate of his character as a man and his influence as a citizen of the Commonwealth, but especially its great appreciation of his usefulness while a member of this Board and for a portion of that time the official head of the University. 2nd Resolved: That this resolution be spread upon the records of the Board and a copy of it forwarded by the Secretary to the family of Mr Kean.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty nominate to the Board by and with the advice and consent of the Faculty, five standing Committees of the Faculty who shall take in hand the organization of all elements, interests and influences looking to the increase of the patronage of the University and of its endowment and material wealth; that these Committees shall consist of

1st A Committee to organize the good will of the University in the State of Virginia and bring its schools and advantages to the attention of the citizens of this Commonwealth.

2nd A Committee to secure Endowments and Benefactions.

3d A Committee on establishing and conducting a Literary and Correspondence Bureau.

4th A Committee to put in the field Canvassers to bring the University to the attention of prospective students and citizens of the other states of the Union.

5th A Committee of local Alumni or Faculty to organize Alumni Associations throughout the Union and to look after the Alumni in every way possible, to keep them in touch with the University.

Resolved further: That to carry out the purposes of this resolution the following sums be appropriated: 1st $1000.00 for the Committee on State organization. 2nd $1000.00 for canvassing outside of the State. 3d $500 00 for the Committee on Literature and correspondence. 4th $250 00 for the Committee on Alumni and 5th $250 00 for the Committee on Endowments and Benefactions.

The Chairman of the Faculty in accordance with the above resolution recommended the following Committees:

Committees of Faculty for Summer Advertising, etc.

On motion it was

Resolved: that the said Committees be appointed and requested to report to this Board at its next meeting.

On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow at 9 1/2 A. M.

Two Fellowships $300.

$ 600.00

Three Scholarships 250.

750.00

Prof. Tuttle's salary

3000.00

Prof. Thornton's salary

700.00

Prof. Dunnington's salary

500.00

Contribution for advertising

100.00

Equipment, books etc.

350.00

$6000.00

The Board met pursuant to adjournment on yesterday. Present the same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr Glass who was called home.

The Board elected as the Executive Committee for the ensuing year Messrs Harmon, Chairman, Jones the Rector, Bryan, Glass and Miles.

Dr P. B. Barringer was unanimously re-elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

The following was enacted:

Whereas Prof. Wm M. Thornton of the Chair of Applied Mathematics in this University is an applicant before the President of the United States for the position of Assistant Commissioner for special work in the Department of Engineering at the Paris Exposition of 1900, therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia assure the President that such appointment would be received with approval and appreciation by this Board and by the people of Virginia; that we further assure the President that Mr Thornton is preeminently equipped for work of this kind and will reflect credit on such an occasion; that the Secretary of this Board be directed to transmit this resolution to the President of the United States.

Resolved: That the building formerly occupied by the late Major Peyton be set aside for the use of the Alumni under the direction of the Proctor & Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings and that he be authorized to make such expenditure as may be necessary to furnish and keep said building ready for the use and occupancy by our Visiting Alumni.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors have learned with gratification that there is a desire on the part of the Alumni of the University to erect on these grounds an Alumni Memorial Hall which shall be used not only for preserving memorials of distinguished Alumni but as a place where visiting Alumni may meet and for such other purposes as the Alumni may prescribe.

The Board will grant a suitable location for the building and will appropriate $1000. towards its construction and will give such other assistance as the resources of the University will permit.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to Mr Samuel Spencer of New York, for his kindness in furnishing a special train to Mr James C. Carter and other friends and Alumni of the University, and for other generous offers of assistance in this and other directions on this commencement occasion.

Resolved: That the Board accepts with pleasure the offer of Mr Charles Gould of New York, communicated to the Board, to have printed an edition of Mr James C. Carter's Speech for the University, and thanks him for his generous offer.

Resolved: That the Board tenders its thanks to the Hon. James C. Carter of New York, for his able address on the occasion of the dedication of the new buildings, and take this occasion on behalf of the University, its Alumni and friends to express their great appreciation of the value of his address to the cause of education and good government.

Resolved: That the following recommendations of the Miller Board be adopted: viz,

"Appropriation of the Miller Fund, recommended by the Miller Board:

The board has to its credit on account of Scholarships in addition to the above and unappropriated, $133 00 which was unexpended under one of the last year's scholarships. The Miller Board earnestly recommends that this sum be given to Mr J. N. Michie, a most worthy Miller School boy who is unable to attend the University. This sum to be donated provided his friends will raise any additional sum necessary to his expenses at the University and the Board of Visitors authority that he may enter upon same terms as if he were appointed to a scholarship. This however is not to be considered as the establishment of an additional scholarship, but an arrangement for this one year only."

Resolved: That Mr H. C. Ford of Charlotte County be given the Mason Fellowship for the session of 1898-99.

Resolved: That the Proctor, at the earliest practicable moment, restore the sinking fund to its full amount by the purchase of Virginia Century bonds.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed to deposit with the Virginia Trust Company at Richmond, Va, or with some other Trust Company which may be approved by the Finance Committee of this Board, all the bonds, stocks or other securities belonging to the University of Virginia, whether invested funds of endowed chairs or scholarships, the securities of the Sinking Fund or other special funds, and shall take the receipt of the Depositary Company giving a list of the securities in detail. The bonds and stocks shall, as far as it may be done, be registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and may be transferred only upon the authority of the Proctor and two of the members of the Finance Committee. The Depositary shall collect all interest as the same accrues upon any of the securities and shall deposit the same to the credit of the Proctor of the University who shall have the right to check for the same.

The Depositary shall collect any bond or other security as it matures and shall deposit the same to a special investment account to be drawn upon by the Proctor for the purchase of such securities as may be approved by two of the Finance Committee, and such securities when paid for shall be delivered to the Depositary and be held for account of the same fund from which the purchase money was derived.

A special account shall be kept of each Fund and the reinvestments thereof.

All purchases of securities for any fund herein provided for shall be made by the Proctor, by and with the approval of two members of the Finance Committee.

The compensation of the Depositary shall be such as may be agreed upon between said Depositary and the Proctor, and two members of the Finance Committee.

Mr Glass returned and resumed his seat in the session.

On motion the Board adjourned until 9 1/2 A. M. tomorrow.

I enclose to you herewith cheque for $20,000.00 being a gift from the J. W. and Belinda Randall Charities Corporation, which was voted to you by the trustees on June 10th, 1898. With this gift goes a copy of the vote under which you must receive this gift or return it to me as trea- surer.

The Trustees are very glad to be able to send you this sum of money from this old lady (Miss Randall) both as a proof of their high appreciation of the University of Virginia and also as a mark of sentiment towards your great institution of learning.

Referring to interview with you this A. M. in relation to caring for securities and handling the Sinking Fund Accounts of the University,- We beg to state our construction of agreement arrived at and if correct will be pleased to have you confirm same.

The arrangement as at present existing and charges made for acting as Registrar and Transfer Agent to continue, but it is understood that the University will forward to us the 153 bonds, say $76,500. for registration.

To receive $25 00 per annum for the following, viz: Receive and hold such securities as may be sent us or purchased for account of Sinking Fund Old Debt, Collect the income thereon and invest such income or funds that may be sent for that purpose under instruction of the Finance Committee of the University.

The same as above to be carried out as to Sinking Fund New Debt.

To care for the $76,500. University Bonds to be sent us and registered.

If we have made this clear and it agrees with your idea, please so advise.

I am in receipt of your letter of July 19th, I beg to State that my understanding of our agreement concurs with yours therein expressed,

#3,013

$1,000.

#3,026

1,000.

Registered Virginia

2 - 3 Bonds

#439

$10,000.

440

10,000.

381

5,000.

842

1,000.

913

100.

914

100.

We have your favor 22nd and are in receipt of securities listed in same by Express. We register on our books 153 bonds $500. each, $76,500. in name of Rector and Board of Visitors of University of Virginia, and hold the same for safe keeping. We have changed Virginia Century Bonds, $28,000 from Coupon to Registered. This cost us $3.00, the charge made by Auditor of Virginia for the change. Please remit.

We have opened an account "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, Old Debt" and hold following securities for collection of income:

Georgia Pacific R.R. Co 6% Bonds

Account of "University of Virginia - Sinking Fund, New Debt."

Registered Virginia 2 - 3 Bonds

#1,058/1,060 $1,000. each $3000.

We are in receipt of Virginia Century Bonds $20,800., advised as purchased in ours of yesterday, and have had same registered in the name of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. We charge the respective Sinking Funds as per statement below, and hold bonds for account of same. You will notice this makes the Sinking Fund Account Old Debt, show debit of $95. and to the Credit of Sinking Fund Account New Debt $15.00
