---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1900'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Standing Appropriations:Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships.Interest and Sinking Fund.Miscellaneous.Employees.Working Expenses.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are 175

Law students,

187

Medical students,

270

Academic students,

24

Engineering students.

Total, 656

State Annuity

$50,000.

Corcoran Fund

6,000.

Forwarded

$56,000.

Amount Forwarded

$56,000.

Miller Fund

6,000.

Linden Kent Fund

3,000.

Astronomical Fund

4,455.

Rent from 2 boarding houses & cottage

900.

Randall Building

3,000.

Madison Fund Library

156

Byrd Fund Library

360.

Gordon Fund Library

300

Mason Fellowship

210.

Brown Scholarship

120.

Bierly Scholarship

220.

Interest on Sinking Fund

1,304.

\* \*Note:-On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:— Estimated income from fees and rents on a basis of 600 students at a per capita of $110.

66,000.

Total Income

$142,025.

Surplus 1899-1900

2,808.70

$144,833.70.

Instructors

$ 72,850.

Officers

5,300.

Scholarships & Fellowships

5,300.

Interest and Sinking Fund

20,524.

Miscellaneous

12,125.

Employees

7,692.

Working expenses

13,846.

137,697

Hospital

6,500.

Total

$144,137.

Estimated Surplus

696.70.

20 Professors $3,000.

$60,000.

1 Professor 2,750

2,750.

1 Professor 2,500

2,500.

1 Associate Professor $2,000.

2,000.

Instructor Materia Medica

300.

Instructor in Physics

800.

Instructor in Latin

800.

Instructor in Mechanical Engineering

600.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.

Director of the Gymnasium

1,500.

Total

$72,850.

Chairman

$ 500.

Proctor

2,000.

Secretary to Proctor

800.

Secretary to Visitors

300.

Secretary to Faculty

800.

Commissioner of Accounts

100.

Librarian

800.

$5,300.

3 Astronomical Fellowships

$1,050.

2 Biological Fellowships

600.

1 Mason Fellowships

210.

3 Miller Scholarships

750.

6 State (Public Schools) Scholarships

1,200.

1 Brown Scholarship

120.

1 Bierly Scholarship

220.

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.

1 Tuetonic Language Fellowship

200.

3 Board of Visitors' Scholarships

750.

$5,300.

Sinking Fund (old debt)

$ 2,050.

Sinking Fund (new debt)

2,000.

Interest on old debt

5,170.

Interest on new debt

10,000.

Interest on sinking fund for reinvestment

1,304.

$20,524.

Contingent Fund

$ 1,750.

Repairs and Improvements

5,000.

Commutation of Rents (8 Professors)

2,400.

Alumni Entertainment

150.

Additional work benches for Applied Mathematics

75.

Assistant Applied Mathematics

1,500.

Expenses Prof. Thornton

1,000.

Expenses Dr. Barringer

250.

$12,125.

Janitor and Plumber

$ 900.

Engineer and Fireman

630.

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

480.

Night Policeman

360.

Janitor of Rotunda

300.

3 Janitors of New Buildings, 2 for 9 mos.

and 1 for 12 mos.

450.

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.

Janitor of Dispensary

108.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

Laborers, 3 hands, 3 teamsters,

1,080.

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.

3 Janitors for Randall Bldg.

405.

$ 7,692.

Observatory

$ 405.

Agricultural Biological Department

350.

Chemical Department

350.

Physical Department

300.

Medical Department for Laboratory instruction in Anatomy, Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics. This is provided for in estimating the general per capita.

(See note).

Engineering Department

200.

Mineralogy and Geology

25.

Law Department

500.

Dispensary

400

2 530

Amount forwarded

2 530

Amount for'd

$ 2,530.

Hospital

600.

Libray (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.

Diplomas

200.

Printing Blanks

200.

Catalogues and Postage

1,200.

Advertising

3,000.

Gymnasium (repairs, etc)

450.

Fuel, exclusive of Randall Bldg.,

1,500.

Lights, electric, of Randall Bldg.,

1,000.

Fuel and lights for Randall Bldg.

500.

Pathological Laboratory

250.

Infirmary Fund

1,600

Total

13,846.

At a regular meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, held on the 11th of June, 1900,—

Present: C. P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors: H. H. Downing, Carter Glass, A. B. Chandler, Geo. W. Miles, Joseph Bryan, Daniel Harmon, R. T. Irvine and R. Walton Moore. Messrs. Bryan, Harmon and Irvine were appointed by the Governor approved by the Senate and commissioned to serve for four years next ensuing the 29th day of February last; and Mr Moore in like manner appointed, confirmed and commissioned for like period to succeed Dr. M. G. Holt, whose term expired on the said 29th day of February.

Mr. Moore took and subscribed the oath as Visitor prescribed by law before Judge John M. White, Judge of the County Court of Albemarle County, in vacation on the day and date first above named and prior to his taking his seat as a member of the Board.

The Board was called to order by the Rector and proceeded to business.

Standing Committees were appointed as follows:

Finance Committee: Messrs. Harman, Downing & Glass.

Library & Apparatus: Messrs. Bryan, Miles and Moore.

Conduct of Schools etc.: Messrs. Miles, Irvine & Chandler.

Buildings & Grounds: Messrs. Glass, Bryan & Downing.

Health, Infirmary, Messrs. Irvine, Chandler & Moore.

Sewerage & Drainage Messrs. Irvine, Chandler & Moore.

Miller Board Com.: Messrs. Harman, Glass & Moore.

Dr. Barringer, the Chairman of the Faculty, handed to the Board his report which contained also his resignation as Chairman of the Faculty. Upon the earnest solicitation of the Board, he decided to recall his resignation.

The Chairman of the Faculty handed in to the Board the annual report of the Faculty—attached to these minutes—, the Proctor's report - also attached hereto— the various school reports and sundry petitions and applications which being read and considered the following was enacted.— \[Here, before the resolutions referred to as being enacted, are inserted the report of the Faculty and that of the Proctor. The resolutions continue on Page 378.\]

Annual Report of the Faculty of the University of Virginia.

University of Virginia, June 11, 1900.

To the Rectors and Visitors of the University of Virginia,

Gentlemen,

During the past session no sickness from defective hygiene existed among the students, but owing to the prevalence of Grippe, a considerable number of minor cases occurred. There was one death among them due to acute disease.

The conduct of the students has been excellent and their studiousness above the average.

There has been a marked increase over last year in the number of students. The Catalogue for this year shows 646 as the number up to the date of its issue in January. This was much earlier than previous issues. Since that time eleven have entered the University, bringing the total up to 657 against 596 for last year. This makes a gain of 61. The number for the Session just ended surpasses that of any year in the history of the Institution.

The following items are recommended to the Visitors for action.

1\. By the recent action of the Legislature, a special appropriation has been made to provide an electric light plant for the University. In the judgment of the Faculty this appropriation may, and should be so expended as not only to Com. to see after provide effectively and permanently for the lighting of our grounds and buildings, but also to advance the work of the Scientific Schools of the University. The Faculty requests the Visitors to give due consideration to both aspects of the problem and to confer with a committee of the Faculty before taking final action upon the expenditure of the fund.

Com. to see after

2\. The Faculty recommends to the Visitors that the degree of Bachelor of Science of the University of Virginia in Mathematics, and Mechanics, be conferred on Mr. Llewellyn G. Hox- Adopted ton, upon his graduation in Physics, Chemistry, Geology, Industrial Chemistry, Electricity and Magnetism, and in both the B. A. and M. A. courses in Mathematics and Mechanics.

Adopted

3\. For a long time, a portion of the University ground, known as the University cemetary, has, with the tacit consent of the Visitors, been used for burial purposes. In order that this ground might be kept in decent order a committee of the Faculty has for some time assumed control of it. The amount of unoccupied space is now small, and the growing community in and around the University causes a constantly increasing demand for its utilization. The committee in the absence of Adopted any fixed rules, has more or less arbitrarily to determine the nature of the burials in the Cemetery.

Adopted

The Faculty asks the Visitors to make a rule allowing in future, with the exception of members of families already using plots of the ground, burial only to students in attendance and to members of the families of the Faculty and officers of the University.

4\. The building known as the Temperance Hall was donated to promote the cause of Temperance. In the absence of any tem- Disapproved perance organization, the religious work of the University comes nearest to accomplishing the purpose of the donor. The Faculty asks the Visitors to appropriate for religious purposes the entire net proceeds of this hall, the net proceeds being the income after deducting the cost of necessary repairs.

Disapproved

5\. In order to provide for the instruction ordered by the Visitors in the four years course in Medicine, the Faculty recommends that the Visitors direct the Proctor to place annually to the credit of the Physical Department, $2.50 for each one of the the first year medical students, and $1.50 for each one of the second year medical students. It is also recommended that the Proctor be instructed to make the same charges to the credit of the Chemical department by making the appropriations in this form, instead of lump sums, as was done in the budget for the past session, both a surplus and a deficit will be avoided. The Visitors have made provision in this form for Anatomy, Histology, and Bacteriology.

6\. The Faculty recommends to the Visitors that in future no other diploma than the B. A. diploma of graduation be given in the undergraduate department of the University. Also, that a printed certificate, certifying to the completion of any reg- Adopted ular course offered by the Academic Department, be given to any matriculated student entitled to it, by the chairman of the General Faculty, on application at the Chairman's office.

Adopted

This certificate may be signed only by the chairman or Secretary of the General Faculty and the Professor under whom the work was done.

7\. The Faculty recommends to the Visitors, that after the Adopted next session, instruction in Hebrew be discontinued in the University of Virginia.

Adopted

8\. The attention of the Visitors is earnest requested to the imperative need for completion, at the earliest possible time, of the central portion of the Hospital, the building of which has been begun. The reasons which render this building necessary for clinical teaching, if the Medical Department of the University is to be maintained, have been laid before you on several occasions within the last few years. The passage of time has but added to their force.

The pressure from without has been increased within the last twelve months, additional notices having been served upon the Medical Faculty that the degrees of Medical Schools will Adopted not be recognized in which adequate provision is not made for practical teaching by the bedside.

Adopted

The building, undertaken under the order of your board of last summer, could have been completed within the cost of $20,000, if action had been taken twelve months earlier when Adopted such definite action was asked for. Since then the rise in the price of building materials has rendered it impossible to get the same work done for less than a little over $26,000. The Medical Faculty, acting under your order as a building committee, has made the contract in such a form as to allow of stopping the work inside the sum so far appropriated, or such part thereof as may be actually available, but it will be a grave misfortune to the University if such stoppage shall become necessary. The Faculty of the University desires to present this matter to the Visitors as the most improtant single claim at present upon any surplus funds now in hand. The Medical Faculty is of course ready to report in detail, if desired, as to the contract and the state of the building fund.

Adopted

9\. The Faculty recommends to the Visitors that Dr. Barringer have authority during this summer, to devote such time as he can spare, to make a personal effort to secure additional Adopted funds for the Hospital and asks your body to appropriate dollars, or so much of this as may be needed, to defray his necessary traveling expenses.

Adopted

Col. Carter to buy 10. A considerable portion of the hose used by the University Fire Company is worthless and needs replacement. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors appropriate the sum of Sixty dollars for the purchase of 200 feet of 21/2 inch hose to replace that worn out.

Col. Carter to buy

11\. Additional work benches are needed for the School of Adopted Applied Mathematics, and the Faculty recommends that the sum of 75 dollars be appropriated to provide them.

Adopted

12\. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors appropriate Adopted 150 dollars, or so much thereof as may be needed, to provide for a public entertainment of the Alumni and their friends, to be held Tuesday evening of the final week.

Adopted

13\. Prof. Harrison asks the Visitors to appropriate the sum Adopted of 300 dollars to restore the assistant instructor in English and German. The Faculty recommends that his request be granted. Prof. Harrison's statement of the reasons for this request accompanies this report.

Adopted

14\. In consideration of the value of the services of the Adopted secretary to the Proctor, the Faculty recommends that the Visitors raise his salary from $600. to $800.

Adopted

15\. Dr. Mallet, with the approval of the Faculty, requests that the sum of $200 advanced by the Chemical Department, to be used by the Astronomical Department in observing the eclipse, be returned. So, however, there is urgent necessity for the completion of the central portion of the Hospital, the return may be deferred.

16\. The Law Department, with the approval of the Faculty, asks that the Visitors appropriate for the next session the Adopted sumof $500 to be used by that department. A letter from the Law Faculty, explaining the necessity of this appropriation, accompanies this report.

Adopted

17\. The Faculty recommends that the Visitors restore the Infirmary Fund to $2350 for the purpose of restoring the saliries to $500, of the Professors giving medical attendance to students. A letter from the Infirmary Board relating to No this restoration accompanies this report.

No

18\. The Medical Faculty, with the approval of the General Faculty, recommends to the Visitors that the distribution of subjects in the medical course be changed as follows, at Adopted the request of Dr. Buckmaster, and with the assent of Drs. Davis, and Christian. Dr. Buckmaster to be Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology, Surgical Diseases and Abdominal Surgery. Dr. J. S. Davis to be Professor of Pathology and Practice of Medicine.

Adopted

19\. The Faculty recommends to the Visitors that any student in either the Department of Law or that of Medicine, who has paid the full tuition for the year in the Department in question, may with the consent and approval of the Faculty of such Department, be permitted to pursue one or more courses Adopted in the Academic Department, with no additional charge for tuition, unless such course or courses are included among those offered by him in accordance with requirements for an academic degree for which he is, or in the future may become an applicant.

Adopted

20\. The request contained in the following resolution passed by the Faculty on October 9th 1899 is respectfully renewed.

"Resolved that the Rector and Visitors be requested No. to return to the working fund of the Observatory $423.00, the amount taken therefrom in July and August 1896, for insurance of the Observatory buildings. This is a separate endowment fund, and the amount named is needed for use in observing the total eclipse of our sun which will take place in May 1900."

No.

In this connection, attention is called to the resolution of the Visitors of June 29th 1881, to be found on page 128 of the minutes of the Board:

"That the donation of Mr. Vanderbilt shall be kept in a distinctive and separate working fund, the income of which shall be donated to astronomical work proper."

21\. Whereas the sum of $300.00 or thereabouts, can be saved by entering an edition of the Catalogue of 8000 copies in the P. O. as second class matter, and whereas three numbers of the Alumni Bulletin can be published at a cost approximating Referred to Com. $300.00, the Faculty recommends to the Visitors to authorize the publication of the Alumni Bulletin and the Catalogue together as a Quarterly magazune.

Referred to Com.

22\. It has been found that two janitors are not sufficient for the new buildings and that one is needed for the three vacation months, in order to show visitors through the buildings and perform other duties. The Faculty therefore recommend that three janitors be provided, one of them for twelve months and the other two for nine months as hitherto.

23\. As the sum of $100.00 appropriated last year for diplomas, and of $1000.00 for Catalogues and postage were not sufficient, the Faculty recommends that they be raised to $200.00 and $1000.00 respectively.

24\. Inasmuch as some of the local Alumni Associations now organized and entitled, under the plan of Alumni Scholarships, to appoint incumbents to fill said scholarships, have failed to comply with some of the technical requirements of that plan, such as returning the yearly list of members by the day named, the Faculty recommends to the Visitors that they nevertheless permit such associations to make their appointments for the next session, as if such requirements had been complied with.

25\. Whereas the states of New York and Illinois have declined to recognize the B. A. degree of the University of Virginia as fulfilling the requirements established by them as the requirements of a college of good standing, and have refused our graduates the advantages and privileges granted to the holders of the Bachelor's degree, the faculty think it proper that the Visitors should be made personally aware of this fact and be notified that the faculty has had under careful consideration, not only such fact but also objections to the present B. A. degree, which have apparent on other grounds, and that it hopes to present a report on the whole subject to the visitors at their meeting in the fall, if a meeting be then held.

I have the honor to submit to you a report of the financial transactions of the University for the fiscal year ending June 30th 1900.

It is a pleasure to state that the session now closing has been unprecedently prosperous - the number of matriculates being 656 - the largest number that has ever attended the University, 645 having been the next largest number in attendance in the session 1856-7. Of the 656 students attending the University this session, 136 are Virginia Academic students who are exempt from the payment of tuition fees by #1554, Code of Va. 1887. There are also 22 holders of scholarships who are exempt, and 22 Virginians in professional schools taking academic studies, who are exempt from fees in that Department.

It is gratifying to report to the Board that the Legislature at its last session restored the annuity of the University to $50,000 to includes as heretofore the $10,000 to meet the interest on the $200,000 debt incurred by the restoration of the University buildings after the fire. The Legislature also appropriated $10,000 to the University for the erection of an electric plant and to extend its steam heating apparatus. A special committee has been appointed by the Board and the contract is taken for a plant of 1200 lights, 16 candle power, to be finished and ready for operation by September 1st of this year. On account of the retroactive effect of the law of appropriations in this case, to Oct. 1st 1899, the University has credit for this fiscal year ending June 30th, 1900 for $48,750.

It is advisable in my opinion in the constitutional convention to be held next year, to have the annual appropriation to the University made on the basis of a small percentage of the taxable values of the State, so as to give it a fair and equitable income without the necessity of a petition for its allowance at every meeting of the Legislature. The free tuition here in all Academic studies, without limit, entitles the University to be put on this footing.

It will be recollected by the Board that at its last meeting ten thousand dollars ($10,000) had been received from the Fayerweather fund. Of this amount eight hundred dollars, ($800) as usual, by order of the Court, had to be returned to the counsel, Messrs. Putney and Bishop. Nine thousand, two hundred dollars the remainder, was put at interest at the rate of three per cent on certificate of deposit, in the People's National Bank of Charlottesville. At the instance of Miss Sally Coles of Albemarle County, Captain Lorraine Jones of Virginia, now a resident of St. Louis, generously added five hundred dollars to this sum. This, with interest, now amounts to over ten thousand dollars ($10,000).

By authority of the Board of Visitors, a contract has been entered into with Messrs. John P. Pettijohn & Co. for the main building of the Hospital for the sum of twenty six thousand, six hundred dollars ($26,600). I regret to state that the trustees of the Fayerweather fund have failed to distribute the remainder of the funds of the estate on account of law suits recently entered against it. There would have been some ten thousand dollars above the expenses of the University this session to aid in building the Hospital but but for the law suit brought by James S. Phillips for unpaid work and materials claimed on the new buildings, which suit was compromised by the payment of five thousand and thirty nine dollars ($5,039) including expenses of counsel and witnesses, also one thousand and eighty two dollars and thirty five cents ($1,082.35) paid for the auxiliary water works recently erected, and five hundred dollars ($500) paid for outlet of sewer system. There will still be available from this year's receipts nearly ..... thousand dollars to be added to the hospital fund. It is earnestly to be desired that the hospital building shall be completed without delay, and whilst the Board is prohibited by law from incurring debt, it can allow a contract to be made on reasonable time, and we have precedents in the past for such action.

An order has been issued by the Post Office Department in Washington for the discontinuance of the University Post Office and for its transfer to Charlottesville on the first of July next. This will be a serious blow to the University. It will tempt the students to frequent the city during the intervals of the mail delivery and collection and is likelt to lead to trouble. I hope the transfer may be prevented.

The two hotels on West Range changed hands at the beginning of the present session, one being occupied by Mrs. Perkinson and the other by Mrs. Yancey. Both hotels were put in thorough order by the University before being rented. At the request of Mrs. Yancey early in the session, the Mess Hall, with kitchen and store room appurtenances, was entirely separated from the private dwelling house and sub-let by her to Mr. John Campbell, she herself taking some eighteen boarders in her private dining room. This plan is found to work well; the long list of failures under the old system demonstrates that the hotel plan cannot be successfully operated by ladies. On the other hand the increase and success of private boarding houses around the University show the signal success and advantage of that plan.

The Gymnasium has been thoroughly refitted with two boilers - one for hot water heating and one for hot water bathing for members. The pipes have been properly reset and the radiators changed from indirect to direct, to the great advantage of the heating arrangement. The lower floor has been painted and the porch tinned and painted.

The stone house occupied by Mr. Noreck has had an ample area, ten feet deep in one place, dug around it and walled up with stone, brick and hydraulic cement, in order to make the lower story entirely dry and healthy, and I am glad to report it has had the desired effect and saved the house to the University as a desirable place of occupation.

The amount $1075., specified in the annual account for lights, expresses only half the cost of gas and electricity to the University for the reason that specific appropriations not included in it are made by the Board for the different Departments, which will amount, together with the above sum, to over $2000 annually. The gas pipes having been put down in 1855 are rusty and leaky and although the leaks are repaired as often as discovered, considerable loss occurs annually from this source, as a large metre at our boundary charges all that passes through to the University. The policy of the University is obviously to substitute gas by electricity, the plant for which is about to be put in for lighting the University, and to run a small galvanized pipe to our laboratories for gas, the metres for which should be at the laboratories and not, as now, at the boundary, subjecting us to the collection of all dues and the loss of all leakage whether for the University or for others.

Ultimately the heating of all the dormitories except perhaps Carr's Hill, should be done by hot water, in the interest of economy and safety. The present piping is suitable, as far as it goes, for that purpose, the radiators to be exchanged for hot water radiators at small expense. The heat is more uniform and satisfactory than steam and furnished at half the expense.

A yearly appropriation for the introduction of this system in the event we should have no specific endowments for this purpose, would establish a self-sustaining and economical heat for the University.

Should the Alumni Association adopt a plan, it is my purpose to suggest another story to the present Alumni Hall, affording a large hall and several rooms. The greater portion of the money for this purpose is in hand, and a conference with the architect, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, shows the plan to be entirely feasible. Should the Alumni Association approve of the plan, it will be at once submitted to you during this session for your approval.

The heavy wrought iron frames required by the contract in the skylights of the new buildings but substitued by the contractors with inadequate folds of copper sheeting, have been made to order and substantially out in place, making the skylights entirely safe.

It is understood that Mr. Jas. D. Jones, the worthy and excellent clerk of your Board, will resign the place on account of ill-health. In that event I urge the appointment of Mr. I. K. Moran, the clerk of my office, for the position. The office is germane in every sense to that of the Proctor's, the records being kept in the latter and being the chart by which it is guided. Mr. Moran is a fully equipped and most faithful clerk of long experience, his books being models of book-keeping and his salary small - $600. He was a soldier in Pickett's immortal Division of Virginians and lost his leg above the knee. A more faithful and efficient clerk cannot be found. I ask that the office be given him and the salary pertaining to it be added to his present small salary.

The attention of the Board is asked to the accompanying itemized statement of receipts and expenditures embracing actual transactions to this date, and estimated expenditures for the balance of this month - the end of our fiscal year.

Resolved that the recommendation contained in paragraph #2 of the report of the Faculty is approved, and that the degree of Bachelor of Science of the University of Va in Mathematics and Mechanics be and the same is conferred upon Mr. Llewellyn G. Hoxton upon his graduation in Physics, Chemistry, Geology, Industrial Chemistry, Electricity and Magnetism, and in both the B. A. and M. A. courses in Mathematics and Mechanics.

Resolved, That the recommendation of the Faculty contained in section 4 of their annual report, relating to the revenues derived from the building known as Temperance Hall, be and hereby is disapproved, and the action taken by the Board on this subject at its last annual meeting is ordered to stand.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 3 in their annual report) that hereafter no one shall be allowed to be interred in the University Cemetery with the exception of members of families already using plots in said cemetery students in attendance at the University and members of the families of the Faculty and officers of the University.

Resolved that the sum of Seventy-five ($75.00) Dollars be and is hereby appropriated for additional work benches in the School of Applied Mathematics.

Resolved that the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and the same is hereby appropriated for the purpose of entertaining the Alumni and their friends on Tuesday evening, June 12, 1900.

Mr. Jas. D. Jones, having tendered his resignation as Secretary of the Board, the following resolution was adopted

Resolved, That this Board has received with regret the resignation of Mr. Jas. D. Jones as Secretary of the Board of Visitors of this University, and, in accepting the same, the Board desires to place upon its records its appreciation of his efficient services, extending through the past twenty-six years, and to bear testimony to his unfailing courtesy, patience and wisdom. The University has seldom, if ever, had a more loyal friend, and his social relations with Board, Faculty and students have ever been pleasant and gracious.

Resolved that the hearty good wishes of this Board for his health and happiness follow him through life.

James B. Faulkner was elected as Secretary of the Board to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Jones.

The question of the applications of Mrs. Dangerfield Lewis and of Mrs. Yancy, the present occupant, for the lease of the Hotel at the Southern end of West Range, was called, and a recorded vote ordered, which was had with the following result. In favor of Mrs. Yancy:-

Messrs. Chandler, Glass, Irvine, Harman and Moore.—5.

In favor of Mrs. Lewis:

The Rector, Messrs. Bryan, Miles and Downing.———4.

Mrs. Yancy was declared entitled to the lease.

Resolved that it is not now expedient to increase the appropriation for the Infirmary Fund.

It is ordered, in accordance with the recommendation of the 18th section of the Faculty's report, that the distribution of subjects in the medical work be changed as follows: Dr. Buckmaster shall be Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology, Surgical Diseases and Abdominal Surgery, and Dr. J. S. Davis shall be Professor of Pathology and Practice of Medicine.

Resolved that the salary of I. K. Moran be increased to $800.00 per annum.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 19 in their annual report) that any student in either law or medicine who has paid the full tuition for the year in the department in question, may, with the consent or approval of the Faculty of such Department, be permitted to pursue one or more courses in the academic department, with no additional charge for tuition, unless such course or courses are included among those offered by him in accordance with requirements for an academic degree for which he is, or in the future may become an applicant.

On motion, the Board adjourned to 10 30 A. M. to-morrow.

Charles P. Jones

James B. Faulkner, Sec'y.

June 12, 1900, the Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, except Mr. Glass.

The following was enacted

Resolved that the resolution passed by this Board at its session, Oct. 10, 1899, acknowledging the receipt of the gift of Mr. Geo. H. Byrd, of New York, establishing the "Albert Henry Byrd Endowment Fund in aid of the Library of the University." be and is hereby in its fourth clause so as to read as follows: "Fourth: In no event shall the principal be reduced for any purpose, nor shall any portion of the income be used for any purpose not indicated above.

In view of the fact that Mr. Jno. V. Allen, a student, occupied room No. 29, W. Lawn, for a shot time at the beginning of the session, as a guest of another and without making any contract with reference to it, express or implied, and that inadvertently he has been charged with the payment of, and has paid the sum of $8.00 for servant's attention to the room, it is resolved that said sum of $8.00 be refunded to Mr. Allen.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 7 in their annual report) that after the session ending June, 1901, instruction in Hebrew shall be discontinued in the University of Virginia.

Resolved: The Board of Visitors accept with gratitude the gift of the portrait of the late Professor Geo. Frederick Holmes, made by his daughter, Miss L. E. L. Holmes; and will order that the portrait be placed in the Library with or near the books which formerly belonged to Prof Holmes.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of three members of the Board be appointed to co-operate with a Committee of the Alumni Association in an effort to advance the interests of the University in regard to gifts, endowments, and in the general manner recently suggested to the Board by Dr. Thomas Nelson Page, and that the Alumni Association be notified of this action.

The Rector appointed Messrs. Moore, Bryan and Harmon to act as said Committee to confer with Committee from Alumni Association.

It is ordered that Dr. Barringer's propositions for changes in the executive management made in his recent communication to the Board be referred for consideration and report to the Committee entrusted with the revision of the laws of the University.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 9 in their annual report) that Dr. Barringer be authorized during this summer to devote such time as he can spare to make a personal effort to secure additional funds for the Hospital; and the sum of $250.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated to defray his necessary travelling expenses.

Resolved, that $500.00 be and is hereby appropriated for the use of the law department library.

Whereas, Mr. G. B. McLemore, a student of the University during a portion of the past session, withdrew from the University before entering upon the last half of the session, and asks an abatement of $2500 from the charges against him on the books of the University on that account. Therefore, resolved that the said sum of $25.00 be allowed Mr. McLemore as an abatement pursuant to his request.

Resolved: The application of Miss Bessie Hullihen \[?\] to stand the M. A. examination in Latin with the view of obtaining an official certificate of graduation, be laid on the table; and the Rector is requested to inform Miss Hullihen \[?\] that three years ago the Board of Visitors repealed the resolutions under which such an examination as she desires was held.

Whereas it is desirable to extend the good-will of this University outside of the State of Virginia, and build up its patronage; Therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors establish three scholarships to be known as "The Board of Visitors' Scholarships," of Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars each; and, Resolved further, that one of these scholarships e assigned to the Academic Department, one to the Medical Department and one to the Law Department.

Resolved further that these scholarships e given to residents of States outside of Virginia in compliment to the patronage extended to this University by these states since it was founded.

Resolved further that the Chairman of the Executive Committee upon recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty award these Scholarships and restrict them as far as they may be able to discern to young men who could not otherwise attend the University.

Resolved further that no one of these scholarships be awarded to the name student more than for one session.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of Mr. Harmon and Professors Page and Kent be appointed to consider sec. 21 of the report of the Faculty, and do what may be proper and expedient touching the recommendations therein made, and also to consider and report on a suggestion that an effort be made to establish a medium of publication in connection with the University work.

Resolved: The sum of $423.00 be and is hereby returned to the working fund of the Observatory in accordance with the request of the Faculty, the above amount having been used in 1896 for the payment of insurance on the Observatory Buildings.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of Prof. Stone, that Messrs. Herbert R. Morgan, Heber D. Curtis, and J. P. McCallie, be and the same are hereby appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr. Tinsley Perick Junkin be and he is hereby appointed to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the session of 1900-1901; and that Mr. H. M. Hays be and he is hereby recommended to the Chairman for as liberal arrangements as practicable for fees in the further prosecution of his work at the University.

Resolved that Mr. Harman and Mr. Moore of this Board be and are hereby appointed a Committee to meet with a Committee from the Miller Fund Board to consider during the summer the proper method for the expenditure of the income from this fund to report to a meeting of this Board to be held in October next.

Whereas, this Board has received the following communication from the Miller Board, by R. T. W. Duke, Jr., Secretary, to-wit -

"Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer has been nominated by the Miller Board to the scholarship given to a pupil of the Miller School, and his election by the Board of Visitors is requested. (signed) R. T. W. Duke, Jr. Secretary. June 12, 1900."

Therefore, resolved, in accordance with the foregoing recommendation, that Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer be and he is hereby appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Prof. Richard H. Wilson be and he is hereby elected Professor of Romance Languages at the salary of $3,000.00, and a residence at $300.00 as commutation therefor.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be extended to the authorities and people of Winnsboro, S. C., for the courtesies shown to the members of the Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be offered to the Western Union Telegraph Co., for the courtesies extended to Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory which contributed materially to the success of its work.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in session June 12, 1900, were officially notified of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick, of Chicago, February 20, 1900, and thereupon entered upon the records by unanimous vote the following minute:

"This Board has heard with regret of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick of Chicago, one of the wise benefactors of the University of Virginia, whose generous munificence has enabled this institution to take and hold high rank in an important branch of scientific investigation, and it desires to express to his family assurance of its respectful sympathy with them in their grief.

Resolved that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be granted a year's leave of absence from his lecture work in Applied Mathematics for the purpose of inviting gifts and endowments for this University, and of presenting its claims upon the wealth and benevolence of America.

Resolved further that the sum of $1500.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of securing an Assistant to carry on the work and lectures of the Department of Applied Mathematics, and that Prof. Thornton be authorized to select and name this Assistant.

Resolved further that the sum of $1000.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of defraying the travelling expenses of Prof. Thornton while engaged in this work.

Resolved that there be established the following two Fellowships, to-wit: A Fellowship in English Literature and a Fellowship in Teutonic Languages, the compensation for each to be $200.00 per annum, the appointments to be made upon the recommendation of the Professor in charge of the respective schools, and the holder of such fellowship to render such assistance to the Professor in charge as may be assigned to him.

Resolved that Dr. P. B. Barringer be authorized to appoint an assistant for one year to take subordinate charge of the subject of Materia Medica, Dr. Barringer to retain responsibility for the teaching of that subject, and that an appropriation be made of $300.00 to carry out this arrangement.

The Board has learned that the Post Office Department has ordered that University Station be closed as an office. Such contemplated action is viewed with alarm, and, if carried into effect, will greatly inconvenience this institution, and may seriously affect the government of its students; and the Proctor is hereby directed to take such steps by presenting petitions and memorials to the proper offices praying that no such change in the Post Office facilities of the University of Va, as is contemplated, be made.

It is ordered, in accordance with the recommendations of section 24 of the report of the Faculty, that local Alumni Associations be allowed to make their appointments to Alumni scholarships for next session, even though they may have failed to comply with the technical requirements of the plan heretofore adopted for making such appointments.

Resolved, that in order to provide for the instruction in the four-year course in Medicine, the Proctor is authorized and directed to place annually to the credit of the Physical Department $2.50 for each of the first year Medical students, and $1.50 for each of the 2nd year Medical students, and that the Proctor be directed to make the same charges to the credit of the Chemical Department.

Resolved that Mr. W.m M. M. Thomas be and is hereby appointed to the Bierly Scholarship for the session of 19001901.

The Proctor is directed to pay to Mr. Thomas, the holder of the Bierly Scholarship, the usufruct of the fund up to June 15, 1900.

In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, in the 6th sec. of its report, the Board resolves that in the future no other diploma than the B. A. & B. S. diplomas of graduation be given in the undergraduate department; and that a printed certificate, certifying to the completion of any regular course offered by the Academic Department be given to any matriculated student entitled to it by the Chairman of the General Faculty on application to the Chairman.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 10.30 to-morrow morning.

June 13, 1900, the Board met, pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, and Messrs. Bryan, Harman and Moore, Messrs. Miles, Glass, Irvine, Chandler and Downing having been excused.

The following was enacted:

Resolved that the salary of the Demonstrator of Anatomy be increased to $80000 per annum, this increase to be in force for the next year only.

Resolved further that a Dormitory free of rent be assigned to the second assistant demonstrator of anatomy.

In consideration of the additional work to be performed by Dr. J. S. Davis by reason of the rearrangement of the schools in the Medical Department,

Resolved that the salary of Dr. Davis be increased to $2750.00

Resolved that the sum of $6,500.00 be appropriated for the Hospital Fund to be used in building the hospital.

The Board of Visitors desire to call the attention of the Faculty to the establishment of Fellowships in connection with certain schools which appeared to require their services in order that provision might be made for securing assistance to Professors from year to year instead of electing assistants as heretofore. The Board desire the Faculty to consider the expediency of extending these Fellowships to other schools, and to make a report upon the whole subject, and propose such rules as they may deem proper.

Resolved that the Board, thinking it unfortunate that the students should leave the University before the close of the session, earnestly request the Faculty to adopt such measures as may be deemed best to insure their presence here during and for participation in the commencement exercises.

Whereas the estimated income for 1900-1901 is as follows:

Note:-

On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:—

Be it resolved that the income for 1900-1901 be and is hereby appropriated as follows:

The following is an itemized statement of amounts above appropriated.

The resignation of Dr. Chas. A. Young as Instructor in Hebrew having been received by the Board, it is ordered that the same be accepted, and the Board of Visitors, in accepting his resignation as instructor in Hebrew, desires to assure him of their satisfaction with his services to the University in giving instruction in Hebrew, and in teaching the several classes formed for the study of the English Bible. They are glad that so promising a beginning has been made of what many friends of the institution trust will be a permanent feature of its future teaching. They wish also, in connection with this acknowledgment, to convey to Mr. Young their hearty thanks for contributing by his words in private and in public during his recent travels through the land in the interest of the Endowment of the Bible work here, to the better understanding by the people of what we are trying to do here and to the removal of certain prejudices as to the moral status of the institution, which has been of long standing.

The Board of Visitors, having learned with great satisfaction that the $25,000. Endowment of the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship is now assured, desires to express to the widow and children of the late John B. Cary, and to all who by their gifts or interest have contributed to this unselfish and significant movement, its grateful and appreciative recognition of their kindness, and to assure these donors of its hearty sympathy with the objects of this donation, and of its cooperation in all plans and measures designed to preserve and perpetuate the non-sectarian and evangelical character of this English Bible instruction.

Resolved that this expression of the Board's sentiments be conveyed to Mrs. Jno. B. Cary, of Richmond, and Mrs. Helen E. Moses, of Indianapolis.

On a consideration of the petition of Prof. Noah K. Davis in regard to his place of lecturing, the Board decided that he be permitted to use, as a lecture room, when the Board of Visitors is not in session, the room now occupied by the Board of Visitors, known as the Board of Visitors room,-

On motion, the meeting adjourned sine die.

There are 175

Law students,

187

Medical students,

270

Academic students,

24

Engineering students.

Total, 656

I have the honor to submit to you a report of the financial transactions of the University for the fiscal year ending June 30th 1900.

It is a pleasure to state that the session now closing has been unprecedently prosperous - the number of matriculates being 656 - the largest number that has ever attended the University, 645 having been the next largest number in attendance in the session 1856-7. Of the 656 students attending the University this session, 136 are Virginia Academic students who are exempt from the payment of tuition fees by #1554, Code of Va. 1887. There are also 22 holders of scholarships who are exempt, and 22 Virginians in professional schools taking academic studies, who are exempt from fees in that Department.

It is gratifying to report to the Board that the Legislature at its last session restored the annuity of the University to $50,000 to includes as heretofore the $10,000 to meet the interest on the $200,000 debt incurred by the restoration of the University buildings after the fire. The Legislature also appropriated $10,000 to the University for the erection of an electric plant and to extend its steam heating apparatus. A special committee has been appointed by the Board and the contract is taken for a plant of 1200 lights, 16 candle power, to be finished and ready for operation by September 1st of this year. On account of the retroactive effect of the law of appropriations in this case, to Oct. 1st 1899, the University has credit for this fiscal year ending June 30th, 1900 for $48,750.

It is advisable in my opinion in the constitutional convention to be held next year, to have the annual appropriation to the University made on the basis of a small percentage of the taxable values of the State, so as to give it a fair and equitable income without the necessity of a petition for its allowance at every meeting of the Legislature. The free tuition here in all Academic studies, without limit, entitles the University to be put on this footing.

It will be recollected by the Board that at its last meeting ten thousand dollars ($10,000) had been received from the Fayerweather fund. Of this amount eight hundred dollars, ($800) as usual, by order of the Court, had to be returned to the counsel, Messrs. Putney and Bishop. Nine thousand, two hundred dollars the remainder, was put at interest at the rate of three per cent on certificate of deposit, in the People's National Bank of Charlottesville. At the instance of Miss Sally Coles of Albemarle County, Captain Lorraine Jones of Virginia, now a resident of St. Louis, generously added five hundred dollars to this sum. This, with interest, now amounts to over ten thousand dollars ($10,000).

By authority of the Board of Visitors, a contract has been entered into with Messrs. John P. Pettijohn & Co. for the main building of the Hospital for the sum of twenty six thousand, six hundred dollars ($26,600). I regret to state that the trustees of the Fayerweather fund have failed to distribute the remainder of the funds of the estate on account of law suits recently entered against it. There would have been some ten thousand dollars above the expenses of the University this session to aid in building the Hospital but but for the law suit brought by James S. Phillips for unpaid work and materials claimed on the new buildings, which suit was compromised by the payment of five thousand and thirty nine dollars ($5,039) including expenses of counsel and witnesses, also one thousand and eighty two dollars and thirty five cents ($1,082.35) paid for the auxiliary water works recently erected, and five hundred dollars ($500) paid for outlet of sewer system. There will still be available from this year's receipts nearly ..... thousand dollars to be added to the hospital fund. It is earnestly to be desired that the hospital building shall be completed without delay, and whilst the Board is prohibited by law from incurring debt, it can allow a contract to be made on reasonable time, and we have precedents in the past for such action.

An order has been issued by the Post Office Department in Washington for the discontinuance of the University Post Office and for its transfer to Charlottesville on the first of July next. This will be a serious blow to the University. It will tempt the students to frequent the city during the intervals of the mail delivery and collection and is likelt to lead to trouble. I hope the transfer may be prevented.

The two hotels on West Range changed hands at the beginning of the present session, one being occupied by Mrs. Perkinson and the other by Mrs. Yancey. Both hotels were put in thorough order by the University before being rented. At the request of Mrs. Yancey early in the session, the Mess Hall, with kitchen and store room appurtenances, was entirely separated from the private dwelling house and sub-let by her to Mr. John Campbell, she herself taking some eighteen boarders in her private dining room. This plan is found to work well; the long list of failures under the old system demonstrates that the hotel plan cannot be successfully operated by ladies. On the other hand the increase and success of private boarding houses around the University show the signal success and advantage of that plan.

The Gymnasium has been thoroughly refitted with two boilers - one for hot water heating and one for hot water bathing for members. The pipes have been properly reset and the radiators changed from indirect to direct, to the great advantage of the heating arrangement. The lower floor has been painted and the porch tinned and painted.

The stone house occupied by Mr. Noreck has had an ample area, ten feet deep in one place, dug around it and walled up with stone, brick and hydraulic cement, in order to make the lower story entirely dry and healthy, and I am glad to report it has had the desired effect and saved the house to the University as a desirable place of occupation.

The amount $1075., specified in the annual account for lights, expresses only half the cost of gas and electricity to the University for the reason that specific appropriations not included in it are made by the Board for the different Departments, which will amount, together with the above sum, to over $2000 annually. The gas pipes having been put down in 1855 are rusty and leaky and although the leaks are repaired as often as discovered, considerable loss occurs annually from this source, as a large metre at our boundary charges all that passes through to the University. The policy of the University is obviously to substitute gas by electricity, the plant for which is about to be put in for lighting the University, and to run a small galvanized pipe to our laboratories for gas, the metres for which should be at the laboratories and not, as now, at the boundary, subjecting us to the collection of all dues and the loss of all leakage whether for the University or for others.

Ultimately the heating of all the dormitories except perhaps Carr's Hill, should be done by hot water, in the interest of economy and safety. The present piping is suitable, as far as it goes, for that purpose, the radiators to be exchanged for hot water radiators at small expense. The heat is more uniform and satisfactory than steam and furnished at half the expense.

A yearly appropriation for the introduction of this system in the event we should have no specific endowments for this purpose, would establish a self-sustaining and economical heat for the University.

Should the Alumni Association adopt a plan, it is my purpose to suggest another story to the present Alumni Hall, affording a large hall and several rooms. The greater portion of the money for this purpose is in hand, and a conference with the architect, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, shows the plan to be entirely feasible. Should the Alumni Association approve of the plan, it will be at once submitted to you during this session for your approval.

The heavy wrought iron frames required by the contract in the skylights of the new buildings but substitued by the contractors with inadequate folds of copper sheeting, have been made to order and substantially out in place, making the skylights entirely safe.

It is understood that Mr. Jas. D. Jones, the worthy and excellent clerk of your Board, will resign the place on account of ill-health. In that event I urge the appointment of Mr. I. K. Moran, the clerk of my office, for the position. The office is germane in every sense to that of the Proctor's, the records being kept in the latter and being the chart by which it is guided. Mr. Moran is a fully equipped and most faithful clerk of long experience, his books being models of book-keeping and his salary small - $600. He was a soldier in Pickett's immortal Division of Virginians and lost his leg above the knee. A more faithful and efficient clerk cannot be found. I ask that the office be given him and the salary pertaining to it be added to his present small salary.

The attention of the Board is asked to the accompanying itemized statement of receipts and expenditures embracing actual transactions to this date, and estimated expenditures for the balance of this month - the end of our fiscal year.

June 12, 1900, the Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, except Mr. Glass.

The following was enacted

Resolved that the resolution passed by this Board at its session, Oct. 10, 1899, acknowledging the receipt of the gift of Mr. Geo. H. Byrd, of New York, establishing the "Albert Henry Byrd Endowment Fund in aid of the Library of the University." be and is hereby in its fourth clause so as to read as follows: "Fourth: In no event shall the principal be reduced for any purpose, nor shall any portion of the income be used for any purpose not indicated above.

In view of the fact that Mr. Jno. V. Allen, a student, occupied room No. 29, W. Lawn, for a shot time at the beginning of the session, as a guest of another and without making any contract with reference to it, express or implied, and that inadvertently he has been charged with the payment of, and has paid the sum of $8.00 for servant's attention to the room, it is resolved that said sum of $8.00 be refunded to Mr. Allen.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 7 in their annual report) that after the session ending June, 1901, instruction in Hebrew shall be discontinued in the University of Virginia.

Resolved: The Board of Visitors accept with gratitude the gift of the portrait of the late Professor Geo. Frederick Holmes, made by his daughter, Miss L. E. L. Holmes; and will order that the portrait be placed in the Library with or near the books which formerly belonged to Prof Holmes.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of three members of the Board be appointed to co-operate with a Committee of the Alumni Association in an effort to advance the interests of the University in regard to gifts, endowments, and in the general manner recently suggested to the Board by Dr. Thomas Nelson Page, and that the Alumni Association be notified of this action.

The Rector appointed Messrs. Moore, Bryan and Harmon to act as said Committee to confer with Committee from Alumni Association.

It is ordered that Dr. Barringer's propositions for changes in the executive management made in his recent communication to the Board be referred for consideration and report to the Committee entrusted with the revision of the laws of the University.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 9 in their annual report) that Dr. Barringer be authorized during this summer to devote such time as he can spare to make a personal effort to secure additional funds for the Hospital; and the sum of $250.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated to defray his necessary travelling expenses.

Resolved, that $500.00 be and is hereby appropriated for the use of the law department library.

Whereas, Mr. G. B. McLemore, a student of the University during a portion of the past session, withdrew from the University before entering upon the last half of the session, and asks an abatement of $2500 from the charges against him on the books of the University on that account. Therefore, resolved that the said sum of $25.00 be allowed Mr. McLemore as an abatement pursuant to his request.

Resolved: The application of Miss Bessie Hullihen \[?\] to stand the M. A. examination in Latin with the view of obtaining an official certificate of graduation, be laid on the table; and the Rector is requested to inform Miss Hullihen \[?\] that three years ago the Board of Visitors repealed the resolutions under which such an examination as she desires was held.

Whereas it is desirable to extend the good-will of this University outside of the State of Virginia, and build up its patronage; Therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors establish three scholarships to be known as "The Board of Visitors' Scholarships," of Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars each; and, Resolved further, that one of these scholarships e assigned to the Academic Department, one to the Medical Department and one to the Law Department.

Resolved further that these scholarships e given to residents of States outside of Virginia in compliment to the patronage extended to this University by these states since it was founded.

Resolved further that the Chairman of the Executive Committee upon recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty award these Scholarships and restrict them as far as they may be able to discern to young men who could not otherwise attend the University.

Resolved further that no one of these scholarships be awarded to the name student more than for one session.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of Mr. Harmon and Professors Page and Kent be appointed to consider sec. 21 of the report of the Faculty, and do what may be proper and expedient touching the recommendations therein made, and also to consider and report on a suggestion that an effort be made to establish a medium of publication in connection with the University work.

Resolved: The sum of $423.00 be and is hereby returned to the working fund of the Observatory in accordance with the request of the Faculty, the above amount having been used in 1896 for the payment of insurance on the Observatory Buildings.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of Prof. Stone, that Messrs. Herbert R. Morgan, Heber D. Curtis, and J. P. McCallie, be and the same are hereby appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr. Tinsley Perick Junkin be and he is hereby appointed to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the session of 1900-1901; and that Mr. H. M. Hays be and he is hereby recommended to the Chairman for as liberal arrangements as practicable for fees in the further prosecution of his work at the University.

Resolved that Mr. Harman and Mr. Moore of this Board be and are hereby appointed a Committee to meet with a Committee from the Miller Fund Board to consider during the summer the proper method for the expenditure of the income from this fund to report to a meeting of this Board to be held in October next.

Whereas, this Board has received the following communication from the Miller Board, by R. T. W. Duke, Jr., Secretary, to-wit -

"Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer has been nominated by the Miller Board to the scholarship given to a pupil of the Miller School, and his election by the Board of Visitors is requested. (signed) R. T. W. Duke, Jr. Secretary. June 12, 1900."

Therefore, resolved, in accordance with the foregoing recommendation, that Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer be and he is hereby appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Prof. Richard H. Wilson be and he is hereby elected Professor of Romance Languages at the salary of $3,000.00, and a residence at $300.00 as commutation therefor.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be extended to the authorities and people of Winnsboro, S. C., for the courtesies shown to the members of the Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be offered to the Western Union Telegraph Co., for the courtesies extended to Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory which contributed materially to the success of its work.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in session June 12, 1900, were officially notified of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick, of Chicago, February 20, 1900, and thereupon entered upon the records by unanimous vote the following minute:

"This Board has heard with regret of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick of Chicago, one of the wise benefactors of the University of Virginia, whose generous munificence has enabled this institution to take and hold high rank in an important branch of scientific investigation, and it desires to express to his family assurance of its respectful sympathy with them in their grief.

Resolved that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be granted a year's leave of absence from his lecture work in Applied Mathematics for the purpose of inviting gifts and endowments for this University, and of presenting its claims upon the wealth and benevolence of America.

Resolved further that the sum of $1500.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of securing an Assistant to carry on the work and lectures of the Department of Applied Mathematics, and that Prof. Thornton be authorized to select and name this Assistant.

Resolved further that the sum of $1000.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of defraying the travelling expenses of Prof. Thornton while engaged in this work.

Resolved that there be established the following two Fellowships, to-wit: A Fellowship in English Literature and a Fellowship in Teutonic Languages, the compensation for each to be $200.00 per annum, the appointments to be made upon the recommendation of the Professor in charge of the respective schools, and the holder of such fellowship to render such assistance to the Professor in charge as may be assigned to him.

Resolved that Dr. P. B. Barringer be authorized to appoint an assistant for one year to take subordinate charge of the subject of Materia Medica, Dr. Barringer to retain responsibility for the teaching of that subject, and that an appropriation be made of $300.00 to carry out this arrangement.

The Board has learned that the Post Office Department has ordered that University Station be closed as an office. Such contemplated action is viewed with alarm, and, if carried into effect, will greatly inconvenience this institution, and may seriously affect the government of its students; and the Proctor is hereby directed to take such steps by presenting petitions and memorials to the proper offices praying that no such change in the Post Office facilities of the University of Va, as is contemplated, be made.

It is ordered, in accordance with the recommendations of section 24 of the report of the Faculty, that local Alumni Associations be allowed to make their appointments to Alumni scholarships for next session, even though they may have failed to comply with the technical requirements of the plan heretofore adopted for making such appointments.

Resolved, that in order to provide for the instruction in the four-year course in Medicine, the Proctor is authorized and directed to place annually to the credit of the Physical Department $2.50 for each of the first year Medical students, and $1.50 for each of the 2nd year Medical students, and that the Proctor be directed to make the same charges to the credit of the Chemical Department.

Resolved that Mr. W.m M. M. Thomas be and is hereby appointed to the Bierly Scholarship for the session of 19001901.

The Proctor is directed to pay to Mr. Thomas, the holder of the Bierly Scholarship, the usufruct of the fund up to June 15, 1900.

In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, in the 6th sec. of its report, the Board resolves that in the future no other diploma than the B. A. & B. S. diplomas of graduation be given in the undergraduate department; and that a printed certificate, certifying to the completion of any regular course offered by the Academic Department be given to any matriculated student entitled to it by the Chairman of the General Faculty on application to the Chairman.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 10.30 to-morrow morning.

Standing Appropriations:Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships.Interest and Sinking Fund.Miscellaneous.Employees.Working Expenses.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

State Annuity

$50,000.

Corcoran Fund

6,000.

Forwarded

$56,000.

Amount Forwarded

$56,000.

Miller Fund

6,000.

Linden Kent Fund

3,000.

Astronomical Fund

4,455.

Rent from 2 boarding houses & cottage

900.

Randall Building

3,000.

Madison Fund Library

156

Byrd Fund Library

360.

Gordon Fund Library

300

Mason Fellowship

210.

Brown Scholarship

120.

Bierly Scholarship

220.

Interest on Sinking Fund

1,304.

\* \*Note:-On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:— Estimated income from fees and rents on a basis of 600 students at a per capita of $110.

66,000.

Total Income

$142,025.

Surplus 1899-1900

2,808.70

$144,833.70.

Instructors

$ 72,850.

Officers

5,300.

Scholarships & Fellowships

5,300.

Interest and Sinking Fund

20,524.

Miscellaneous

12,125.

Employees

7,692.

Working expenses

13,846.

137,697

Hospital

6,500.

Total

$144,137.

Estimated Surplus

696.70.

20 Professors $3,000.

$60,000.

1 Professor 2,750

2,750.

1 Professor 2,500

2,500.

1 Associate Professor $2,000.

2,000.

Instructor Materia Medica

300.

Instructor in Physics

800.

Instructor in Latin

800.

Instructor in Mechanical Engineering

600.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.

Director of the Gymnasium

1,500.

Total

$72,850.

Chairman

$ 500.

Proctor

2,000.

Secretary to Proctor

800.

Secretary to Visitors

300.

Secretary to Faculty

800.

Commissioner of Accounts

100.

Librarian

800.

$5,300.

3 Astronomical Fellowships

$1,050.

2 Biological Fellowships

600.

1 Mason Fellowships

210.

3 Miller Scholarships

750.

6 State (Public Schools) Scholarships

1,200.

1 Brown Scholarship

120.

1 Bierly Scholarship

220.

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.

1 Tuetonic Language Fellowship

200.

3 Board of Visitors' Scholarships

750.

$5,300.

Sinking Fund (old debt)

$ 2,050.

Sinking Fund (new debt)

2,000.

Interest on old debt

5,170.

Interest on new debt

10,000.

Interest on sinking fund for reinvestment

1,304.

$20,524.

Contingent Fund

$ 1,750.

Repairs and Improvements

5,000.

Commutation of Rents (8 Professors)

2,400.

Alumni Entertainment

150.

Additional work benches for Applied Mathematics

75.

Assistant Applied Mathematics

1,500.

Expenses Prof. Thornton

1,000.

Expenses Dr. Barringer

250.

$12,125.

Janitor and Plumber

$ 900.

Engineer and Fireman

630.

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

480.

Night Policeman

360.

Janitor of Rotunda

300.

3 Janitors of New Buildings, 2 for 9 mos.

and 1 for 12 mos.

450.

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.

Janitor of Dispensary

108.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

Laborers, 3 hands, 3 teamsters,

1,080.

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.

3 Janitors for Randall Bldg.

405.

$ 7,692.

Observatory

$ 405.

Agricultural Biological Department

350.

Chemical Department

350.

Physical Department

300.

Medical Department for Laboratory instruction in Anatomy, Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics. This is provided for in estimating the general per capita.

(See note).

Engineering Department

200.

Mineralogy and Geology

25.

Law Department

500.

Dispensary

400

2 530

Amount forwarded

2 530

Amount for'd

$ 2,530.

Hospital

600.

Libray (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.

Diplomas

200.

Printing Blanks

200.

Catalogues and Postage

1,200.

Advertising

3,000.

Gymnasium (repairs, etc)

450.

Fuel, exclusive of Randall Bldg.,

1,500.

Lights, electric, of Randall Bldg.,

1,000.

Fuel and lights for Randall Bldg.

500.

Pathological Laboratory

250.

Infirmary Fund

1,600

Total

13,846.

June 13, 1900, the Board met, pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, and Messrs. Bryan, Harman and Moore, Messrs. Miles, Glass, Irvine, Chandler and Downing having been excused.

The following was enacted:

Resolved that the salary of the Demonstrator of Anatomy be increased to $80000 per annum, this increase to be in force for the next year only.

Resolved further that a Dormitory free of rent be assigned to the second assistant demonstrator of anatomy.

In consideration of the additional work to be performed by Dr. J. S. Davis by reason of the rearrangement of the schools in the Medical Department,

Resolved that the salary of Dr. Davis be increased to $2750.00

Resolved that the sum of $6,500.00 be appropriated for the Hospital Fund to be used in building the hospital.

The Board of Visitors desire to call the attention of the Faculty to the establishment of Fellowships in connection with certain schools which appeared to require their services in order that provision might be made for securing assistance to Professors from year to year instead of electing assistants as heretofore. The Board desire the Faculty to consider the expediency of extending these Fellowships to other schools, and to make a report upon the whole subject, and propose such rules as they may deem proper.

Resolved that the Board, thinking it unfortunate that the students should leave the University before the close of the session, earnestly request the Faculty to adopt such measures as may be deemed best to insure their presence here during and for participation in the commencement exercises.

Whereas the estimated income for 1900-1901 is as follows:

Note:-

On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:—

Be it resolved that the income for 1900-1901 be and is hereby appropriated as follows:

The following is an itemized statement of amounts above appropriated.

The resignation of Dr. Chas. A. Young as Instructor in Hebrew having been received by the Board, it is ordered that the same be accepted, and the Board of Visitors, in accepting his resignation as instructor in Hebrew, desires to assure him of their satisfaction with his services to the University in giving instruction in Hebrew, and in teaching the several classes formed for the study of the English Bible. They are glad that so promising a beginning has been made of what many friends of the institution trust will be a permanent feature of its future teaching. They wish also, in connection with this acknowledgment, to convey to Mr. Young their hearty thanks for contributing by his words in private and in public during his recent travels through the land in the interest of the Endowment of the Bible work here, to the better understanding by the people of what we are trying to do here and to the removal of certain prejudices as to the moral status of the institution, which has been of long standing.

The Board of Visitors, having learned with great satisfaction that the $25,000. Endowment of the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship is now assured, desires to express to the widow and children of the late John B. Cary, and to all who by their gifts or interest have contributed to this unselfish and significant movement, its grateful and appreciative recognition of their kindness, and to assure these donors of its hearty sympathy with the objects of this donation, and of its cooperation in all plans and measures designed to preserve and perpetuate the non-sectarian and evangelical character of this English Bible instruction.

Resolved that this expression of the Board's sentiments be conveyed to Mrs. Jno. B. Cary, of Richmond, and Mrs. Helen E. Moses, of Indianapolis.

On a consideration of the petition of Prof. Noah K. Davis in regard to his place of lecturing, the Board decided that he be permitted to use, as a lecture room, when the Board of Visitors is not in session, the room now occupied by the Board of Visitors, known as the Board of Visitors room,-

On motion, the meeting adjourned sine die.

There are 175

Law students,

187

Medical students,

270

Academic students,

24

Engineering students.

Total, 656

I have the honor to submit to you a report of the financial transactions of the University for the fiscal year ending June 30th 1900.

It is a pleasure to state that the session now closing has been unprecedently prosperous - the number of matriculates being 656 - the largest number that has ever attended the University, 645 having been the next largest number in attendance in the session 1856-7. Of the 656 students attending the University this session, 136 are Virginia Academic students who are exempt from the payment of tuition fees by #1554, Code of Va. 1887. There are also 22 holders of scholarships who are exempt, and 22 Virginians in professional schools taking academic studies, who are exempt from fees in that Department.

It is gratifying to report to the Board that the Legislature at its last session restored the annuity of the University to $50,000 to includes as heretofore the $10,000 to meet the interest on the $200,000 debt incurred by the restoration of the University buildings after the fire. The Legislature also appropriated $10,000 to the University for the erection of an electric plant and to extend its steam heating apparatus. A special committee has been appointed by the Board and the contract is taken for a plant of 1200 lights, 16 candle power, to be finished and ready for operation by September 1st of this year. On account of the retroactive effect of the law of appropriations in this case, to Oct. 1st 1899, the University has credit for this fiscal year ending June 30th, 1900 for $48,750.

It is advisable in my opinion in the constitutional convention to be held next year, to have the annual appropriation to the University made on the basis of a small percentage of the taxable values of the State, so as to give it a fair and equitable income without the necessity of a petition for its allowance at every meeting of the Legislature. The free tuition here in all Academic studies, without limit, entitles the University to be put on this footing.

It will be recollected by the Board that at its last meeting ten thousand dollars ($10,000) had been received from the Fayerweather fund. Of this amount eight hundred dollars, ($800) as usual, by order of the Court, had to be returned to the counsel, Messrs. Putney and Bishop. Nine thousand, two hundred dollars the remainder, was put at interest at the rate of three per cent on certificate of deposit, in the People's National Bank of Charlottesville. At the instance of Miss Sally Coles of Albemarle County, Captain Lorraine Jones of Virginia, now a resident of St. Louis, generously added five hundred dollars to this sum. This, with interest, now amounts to over ten thousand dollars ($10,000).

By authority of the Board of Visitors, a contract has been entered into with Messrs. John P. Pettijohn & Co. for the main building of the Hospital for the sum of twenty six thousand, six hundred dollars ($26,600). I regret to state that the trustees of the Fayerweather fund have failed to distribute the remainder of the funds of the estate on account of law suits recently entered against it. There would have been some ten thousand dollars above the expenses of the University this session to aid in building the Hospital but but for the law suit brought by James S. Phillips for unpaid work and materials claimed on the new buildings, which suit was compromised by the payment of five thousand and thirty nine dollars ($5,039) including expenses of counsel and witnesses, also one thousand and eighty two dollars and thirty five cents ($1,082.35) paid for the auxiliary water works recently erected, and five hundred dollars ($500) paid for outlet of sewer system. There will still be available from this year's receipts nearly ..... thousand dollars to be added to the hospital fund. It is earnestly to be desired that the hospital building shall be completed without delay, and whilst the Board is prohibited by law from incurring debt, it can allow a contract to be made on reasonable time, and we have precedents in the past for such action.

An order has been issued by the Post Office Department in Washington for the discontinuance of the University Post Office and for its transfer to Charlottesville on the first of July next. This will be a serious blow to the University. It will tempt the students to frequent the city during the intervals of the mail delivery and collection and is likelt to lead to trouble. I hope the transfer may be prevented.

The two hotels on West Range changed hands at the beginning of the present session, one being occupied by Mrs. Perkinson and the other by Mrs. Yancey. Both hotels were put in thorough order by the University before being rented. At the request of Mrs. Yancey early in the session, the Mess Hall, with kitchen and store room appurtenances, was entirely separated from the private dwelling house and sub-let by her to Mr. John Campbell, she herself taking some eighteen boarders in her private dining room. This plan is found to work well; the long list of failures under the old system demonstrates that the hotel plan cannot be successfully operated by ladies. On the other hand the increase and success of private boarding houses around the University show the signal success and advantage of that plan.

The Gymnasium has been thoroughly refitted with two boilers - one for hot water heating and one for hot water bathing for members. The pipes have been properly reset and the radiators changed from indirect to direct, to the great advantage of the heating arrangement. The lower floor has been painted and the porch tinned and painted.

The stone house occupied by Mr. Noreck has had an ample area, ten feet deep in one place, dug around it and walled up with stone, brick and hydraulic cement, in order to make the lower story entirely dry and healthy, and I am glad to report it has had the desired effect and saved the house to the University as a desirable place of occupation.

The amount $1075., specified in the annual account for lights, expresses only half the cost of gas and electricity to the University for the reason that specific appropriations not included in it are made by the Board for the different Departments, which will amount, together with the above sum, to over $2000 annually. The gas pipes having been put down in 1855 are rusty and leaky and although the leaks are repaired as often as discovered, considerable loss occurs annually from this source, as a large metre at our boundary charges all that passes through to the University. The policy of the University is obviously to substitute gas by electricity, the plant for which is about to be put in for lighting the University, and to run a small galvanized pipe to our laboratories for gas, the metres for which should be at the laboratories and not, as now, at the boundary, subjecting us to the collection of all dues and the loss of all leakage whether for the University or for others.

Ultimately the heating of all the dormitories except perhaps Carr's Hill, should be done by hot water, in the interest of economy and safety. The present piping is suitable, as far as it goes, for that purpose, the radiators to be exchanged for hot water radiators at small expense. The heat is more uniform and satisfactory than steam and furnished at half the expense.

A yearly appropriation for the introduction of this system in the event we should have no specific endowments for this purpose, would establish a self-sustaining and economical heat for the University.

Should the Alumni Association adopt a plan, it is my purpose to suggest another story to the present Alumni Hall, affording a large hall and several rooms. The greater portion of the money for this purpose is in hand, and a conference with the architect, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, shows the plan to be entirely feasible. Should the Alumni Association approve of the plan, it will be at once submitted to you during this session for your approval.

The heavy wrought iron frames required by the contract in the skylights of the new buildings but substitued by the contractors with inadequate folds of copper sheeting, have been made to order and substantially out in place, making the skylights entirely safe.

It is understood that Mr. Jas. D. Jones, the worthy and excellent clerk of your Board, will resign the place on account of ill-health. In that event I urge the appointment of Mr. I. K. Moran, the clerk of my office, for the position. The office is germane in every sense to that of the Proctor's, the records being kept in the latter and being the chart by which it is guided. Mr. Moran is a fully equipped and most faithful clerk of long experience, his books being models of book-keeping and his salary small - $600. He was a soldier in Pickett's immortal Division of Virginians and lost his leg above the knee. A more faithful and efficient clerk cannot be found. I ask that the office be given him and the salary pertaining to it be added to his present small salary.

The attention of the Board is asked to the accompanying itemized statement of receipts and expenditures embracing actual transactions to this date, and estimated expenditures for the balance of this month - the end of our fiscal year.

June 12, 1900, the Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, except Mr. Glass.

The following was enacted

Resolved that the resolution passed by this Board at its session, Oct. 10, 1899, acknowledging the receipt of the gift of Mr. Geo. H. Byrd, of New York, establishing the "Albert Henry Byrd Endowment Fund in aid of the Library of the University." be and is hereby in its fourth clause so as to read as follows: "Fourth: In no event shall the principal be reduced for any purpose, nor shall any portion of the income be used for any purpose not indicated above.

In view of the fact that Mr. Jno. V. Allen, a student, occupied room No. 29, W. Lawn, for a shot time at the beginning of the session, as a guest of another and without making any contract with reference to it, express or implied, and that inadvertently he has been charged with the payment of, and has paid the sum of $8.00 for servant's attention to the room, it is resolved that said sum of $8.00 be refunded to Mr. Allen.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 7 in their annual report) that after the session ending June, 1901, instruction in Hebrew shall be discontinued in the University of Virginia.

Resolved: The Board of Visitors accept with gratitude the gift of the portrait of the late Professor Geo. Frederick Holmes, made by his daughter, Miss L. E. L. Holmes; and will order that the portrait be placed in the Library with or near the books which formerly belonged to Prof Holmes.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of three members of the Board be appointed to co-operate with a Committee of the Alumni Association in an effort to advance the interests of the University in regard to gifts, endowments, and in the general manner recently suggested to the Board by Dr. Thomas Nelson Page, and that the Alumni Association be notified of this action.

The Rector appointed Messrs. Moore, Bryan and Harmon to act as said Committee to confer with Committee from Alumni Association.

It is ordered that Dr. Barringer's propositions for changes in the executive management made in his recent communication to the Board be referred for consideration and report to the Committee entrusted with the revision of the laws of the University.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty (numbered 9 in their annual report) that Dr. Barringer be authorized during this summer to devote such time as he can spare to make a personal effort to secure additional funds for the Hospital; and the sum of $250.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated to defray his necessary travelling expenses.

Resolved, that $500.00 be and is hereby appropriated for the use of the law department library.

Whereas, Mr. G. B. McLemore, a student of the University during a portion of the past session, withdrew from the University before entering upon the last half of the session, and asks an abatement of $2500 from the charges against him on the books of the University on that account. Therefore, resolved that the said sum of $25.00 be allowed Mr. McLemore as an abatement pursuant to his request.

Resolved: The application of Miss Bessie Hullihen \[?\] to stand the M. A. examination in Latin with the view of obtaining an official certificate of graduation, be laid on the table; and the Rector is requested to inform Miss Hullihen \[?\] that three years ago the Board of Visitors repealed the resolutions under which such an examination as she desires was held.

Whereas it is desirable to extend the good-will of this University outside of the State of Virginia, and build up its patronage; Therefore be it

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors establish three scholarships to be known as "The Board of Visitors' Scholarships," of Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars each; and, Resolved further, that one of these scholarships e assigned to the Academic Department, one to the Medical Department and one to the Law Department.

Resolved further that these scholarships e given to residents of States outside of Virginia in compliment to the patronage extended to this University by these states since it was founded.

Resolved further that the Chairman of the Executive Committee upon recommendation of the Chairman of the Faculty award these Scholarships and restrict them as far as they may be able to discern to young men who could not otherwise attend the University.

Resolved further that no one of these scholarships be awarded to the name student more than for one session.

Resolved that a Committee consisting of Mr. Harmon and Professors Page and Kent be appointed to consider sec. 21 of the report of the Faculty, and do what may be proper and expedient touching the recommendations therein made, and also to consider and report on a suggestion that an effort be made to establish a medium of publication in connection with the University work.

Resolved: The sum of $423.00 be and is hereby returned to the working fund of the Observatory in accordance with the request of the Faculty, the above amount having been used in 1896 for the payment of insurance on the Observatory Buildings.

Resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of Prof. Stone, that Messrs. Herbert R. Morgan, Heber D. Curtis, and J. P. McCallie, be and the same are hereby appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Mr. Tinsley Perick Junkin be and he is hereby appointed to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the session of 1900-1901; and that Mr. H. M. Hays be and he is hereby recommended to the Chairman for as liberal arrangements as practicable for fees in the further prosecution of his work at the University.

Resolved that Mr. Harman and Mr. Moore of this Board be and are hereby appointed a Committee to meet with a Committee from the Miller Fund Board to consider during the summer the proper method for the expenditure of the income from this fund to report to a meeting of this Board to be held in October next.

Whereas, this Board has received the following communication from the Miller Board, by R. T. W. Duke, Jr., Secretary, to-wit -

"Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer has been nominated by the Miller Board to the scholarship given to a pupil of the Miller School, and his election by the Board of Visitors is requested. (signed) R. T. W. Duke, Jr. Secretary. June 12, 1900."

Therefore, resolved, in accordance with the foregoing recommendation, that Mr. Nicholas C. Hammer be and he is hereby appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing year.

Resolved that Prof. Richard H. Wilson be and he is hereby elected Professor of Romance Languages at the salary of $3,000.00, and a residence at $300.00 as commutation therefor.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be extended to the authorities and people of Winnsboro, S. C., for the courtesies shown to the members of the Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory.

Resolved that the thanks of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be offered to the Western Union Telegraph Co., for the courtesies extended to Eclipse Expedition of the Leander McCormick Observatory which contributed materially to the success of its work.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in session June 12, 1900, were officially notified of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick, of Chicago, February 20, 1900, and thereupon entered upon the records by unanimous vote the following minute:

"This Board has heard with regret of the death of Mr. Leander J. McCormick of Chicago, one of the wise benefactors of the University of Virginia, whose generous munificence has enabled this institution to take and hold high rank in an important branch of scientific investigation, and it desires to express to his family assurance of its respectful sympathy with them in their grief.

Resolved that Prof. Wm M. Thornton be granted a year's leave of absence from his lecture work in Applied Mathematics for the purpose of inviting gifts and endowments for this University, and of presenting its claims upon the wealth and benevolence of America.

Resolved further that the sum of $1500.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of securing an Assistant to carry on the work and lectures of the Department of Applied Mathematics, and that Prof. Thornton be authorized to select and name this Assistant.

Resolved further that the sum of $1000.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of defraying the travelling expenses of Prof. Thornton while engaged in this work.

Resolved that there be established the following two Fellowships, to-wit: A Fellowship in English Literature and a Fellowship in Teutonic Languages, the compensation for each to be $200.00 per annum, the appointments to be made upon the recommendation of the Professor in charge of the respective schools, and the holder of such fellowship to render such assistance to the Professor in charge as may be assigned to him.

Resolved that Dr. P. B. Barringer be authorized to appoint an assistant for one year to take subordinate charge of the subject of Materia Medica, Dr. Barringer to retain responsibility for the teaching of that subject, and that an appropriation be made of $300.00 to carry out this arrangement.

The Board has learned that the Post Office Department has ordered that University Station be closed as an office. Such contemplated action is viewed with alarm, and, if carried into effect, will greatly inconvenience this institution, and may seriously affect the government of its students; and the Proctor is hereby directed to take such steps by presenting petitions and memorials to the proper offices praying that no such change in the Post Office facilities of the University of Va, as is contemplated, be made.

It is ordered, in accordance with the recommendations of section 24 of the report of the Faculty, that local Alumni Associations be allowed to make their appointments to Alumni scholarships for next session, even though they may have failed to comply with the technical requirements of the plan heretofore adopted for making such appointments.

Resolved, that in order to provide for the instruction in the four-year course in Medicine, the Proctor is authorized and directed to place annually to the credit of the Physical Department $2.50 for each of the first year Medical students, and $1.50 for each of the 2nd year Medical students, and that the Proctor be directed to make the same charges to the credit of the Chemical Department.

Resolved that Mr. W.m M. M. Thomas be and is hereby appointed to the Bierly Scholarship for the session of 19001901.

The Proctor is directed to pay to Mr. Thomas, the holder of the Bierly Scholarship, the usufruct of the fund up to June 15, 1900.

In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty, in the 6th sec. of its report, the Board resolves that in the future no other diploma than the B. A. & B. S. diplomas of graduation be given in the undergraduate department; and that a printed certificate, certifying to the completion of any regular course offered by the Academic Department be given to any matriculated student entitled to it by the Chairman of the General Faculty on application to the Chairman.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 10.30 to-morrow morning.

Standing Appropriations:Salaries of Officers:Scholarships and Fellowships.Interest and Sinking Fund.Miscellaneous.Employees.Working Expenses.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

State Annuity

$50,000.

Corcoran Fund

6,000.

Forwarded

$56,000.

Amount Forwarded

$56,000.

Miller Fund

6,000.

Linden Kent Fund

3,000.

Astronomical Fund

4,455.

Rent from 2 boarding houses & cottage

900.

Randall Building

3,000.

Madison Fund Library

156

Byrd Fund Library

360.

Gordon Fund Library

300

Mason Fellowship

210.

Brown Scholarship

120.

Bierly Scholarship

220.

Interest on Sinking Fund

1,304.

\* \*Note:-On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:— Estimated income from fees and rents on a basis of 600 students at a per capita of $110.

66,000.

Total Income

$142,025.

Surplus 1899-1900

2,808.70

$144,833.70.

Instructors

$ 72,850.

Officers

5,300.

Scholarships & Fellowships

5,300.

Interest and Sinking Fund

20,524.

Miscellaneous

12,125.

Employees

7,692.

Working expenses

13,846.

137,697

Hospital

6,500.

Total

$144,137.

Estimated Surplus

696.70.

20 Professors $3,000.

$60,000.

1 Professor 2,750

2,750.

1 Professor 2,500

2,500.

1 Associate Professor $2,000.

2,000.

Instructor Materia Medica

300.

Instructor in Physics

800.

Instructor in Latin

800.

Instructor in Mechanical Engineering

600.

Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.

Demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.

Director of the Gymnasium

1,500.

Total

$72,850.

Chairman

$ 500.

Proctor

2,000.

Secretary to Proctor

800.

Secretary to Visitors

300.

Secretary to Faculty

800.

Commissioner of Accounts

100.

Librarian

800.

$5,300.

3 Astronomical Fellowships

$1,050.

2 Biological Fellowships

600.

1 Mason Fellowships

210.

3 Miller Scholarships

750.

6 State (Public Schools) Scholarships

1,200.

1 Brown Scholarship

120.

1 Bierly Scholarship

220.

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.

1 Tuetonic Language Fellowship

200.

3 Board of Visitors' Scholarships

750.

$5,300.

Sinking Fund (old debt)

$ 2,050.

Sinking Fund (new debt)

2,000.

Interest on old debt

5,170.

Interest on new debt

10,000.

Interest on sinking fund for reinvestment

1,304.

$20,524.

Contingent Fund

$ 1,750.

Repairs and Improvements

5,000.

Commutation of Rents (8 Professors)

2,400.

Alumni Entertainment

150.

Additional work benches for Applied Mathematics

75.

Assistant Applied Mathematics

1,500.

Expenses Prof. Thornton

1,000.

Expenses Dr. Barringer

250.

$12,125.

Janitor and Plumber

$ 900.

Engineer and Fireman

630.

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

480.

Night Policeman

360.

Janitor of Rotunda

300.

3 Janitors of New Buildings, 2 for 9 mos.

and 1 for 12 mos.

450.

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.

Janitor of Museum

180.

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.

Janitor of Dispensary

108.

Chairman's Messenger

120.

Laborers, 3 hands, 3 teamsters,

1,080.

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.

3 Janitors for Randall Bldg.

405.

$ 7,692.

Observatory

$ 405.

Agricultural Biological Department

350.

Chemical Department

350.

Physical Department

300.

Medical Department for Laboratory instruction in Anatomy, Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics. This is provided for in estimating the general per capita.

(See note).

Engineering Department

200.

Mineralogy and Geology

25.

Law Department

500.

Dispensary

400

2 530

Amount forwarded

2 530

Amount for'd

$ 2,530.

Hospital

600.

Libray (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.

Diplomas

200.

Printing Blanks

200.

Catalogues and Postage

1,200.

Advertising

3,000.

Gymnasium (repairs, etc)

450.

Fuel, exclusive of Randall Bldg.,

1,500.

Lights, electric, of Randall Bldg.,

1,000.

Fuel and lights for Randall Bldg.

500.

Pathological Laboratory

250.

Infirmary Fund

1,600

Total

13,846.

June 13, 1900, the Board met, pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, and Messrs. Bryan, Harman and Moore, Messrs. Miles, Glass, Irvine, Chandler and Downing having been excused.

The following was enacted:

Resolved that the salary of the Demonstrator of Anatomy be increased to $80000 per annum, this increase to be in force for the next year only.

Resolved further that a Dormitory free of rent be assigned to the second assistant demonstrator of anatomy.

In consideration of the additional work to be performed by Dr. J. S. Davis by reason of the rearrangement of the schools in the Medical Department,

Resolved that the salary of Dr. Davis be increased to $2750.00

Resolved that the sum of $6,500.00 be appropriated for the Hospital Fund to be used in building the hospital.

The Board of Visitors desire to call the attention of the Faculty to the establishment of Fellowships in connection with certain schools which appeared to require their services in order that provision might be made for securing assistance to Professors from year to year instead of electing assistants as heretofore. The Board desire the Faculty to consider the expediency of extending these Fellowships to other schools, and to make a report upon the whole subject, and propose such rules as they may deem proper.

Resolved that the Board, thinking it unfortunate that the students should leave the University before the close of the session, earnestly request the Faculty to adopt such measures as may be deemed best to insure their presence here during and for participation in the commencement exercises.

Whereas the estimated income for 1900-1901 is as follows:

Note:-

On a basis of the collections for the present session it is estimated that the per capita for the next session would be $113. It is estimated that to provide for the working expenses of the Medical Department, for Anatomical material, and Laboratory work in Histology, Bacteriology, Chemistry and Physics this per capita should be lowered by $3.00. thus the sum of $110. is arrived at:—

Be it resolved that the income for 1900-1901 be and is hereby appropriated as follows:

The following is an itemized statement of amounts above appropriated.

The resignation of Dr. Chas. A. Young as Instructor in Hebrew having been received by the Board, it is ordered that the same be accepted, and the Board of Visitors, in accepting his resignation as instructor in Hebrew, desires to assure him of their satisfaction with his services to the University in giving instruction in Hebrew, and in teaching the several classes formed for the study of the English Bible. They are glad that so promising a beginning has been made of what many friends of the institution trust will be a permanent feature of its future teaching. They wish also, in connection with this acknowledgment, to convey to Mr. Young their hearty thanks for contributing by his words in private and in public during his recent travels through the land in the interest of the Endowment of the Bible work here, to the better understanding by the people of what we are trying to do here and to the removal of certain prejudices as to the moral status of the institution, which has been of long standing.

The Board of Visitors, having learned with great satisfaction that the $25,000. Endowment of the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship is now assured, desires to express to the widow and children of the late John B. Cary, and to all who by their gifts or interest have contributed to this unselfish and significant movement, its grateful and appreciative recognition of their kindness, and to assure these donors of its hearty sympathy with the objects of this donation, and of its cooperation in all plans and measures designed to preserve and perpetuate the non-sectarian and evangelical character of this English Bible instruction.

Resolved that this expression of the Board's sentiments be conveyed to Mrs. Jno. B. Cary, of Richmond, and Mrs. Helen E. Moses, of Indianapolis.

On a consideration of the petition of Prof. Noah K. Davis in regard to his place of lecturing, the Board decided that he be permitted to use, as a lecture room, when the Board of Visitors is not in session, the room now occupied by the Board of Visitors, known as the Board of Visitors room,-

On motion, the meeting adjourned sine die.
