---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1901'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Itemized estimate of expenditures.
----------------------------------

For extending the steam heating system to the buildings on West Lawn, ——

$1 300.00

For a water tank on Carr's Hill, —

500.00

For a pump in the boiler house as a fire protection,

500.00

Total

$2,300.00

Estimated Receipts

from State Annuity

$50,000.00

from Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

from Miller Fund

6,300.00

from Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

from Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

from Madison Library

156.00

from Gordon Library

300.00

from Byrd Library

$390 00

360.00

from Mason Fellowship

210.00

from Brown Scholarship

120.00

from Birely Scholarship

220.00

from Rents of 2 hotels

540.00

from Rents of 2 mess-halls

360.00

from Rents of "Temperance Hall,"

544 00

463.00

from Rents of Infirmary

450.00

from Rents of Cottage

48.00

from Rents of Alumni Hall,

420 00

400.00

from Rents of blacksmith shop

36.00

from Interest on sinking fund

1,786 00

2,067.00

from Steam heating from students & profs.

750.00

from Electric light furnished

2,600.00

from rent from Randall Building

2,825.00.

from Students' payments (under all heads) 700 at $110.oo

77,000.00

Total estimated receipts

$158,660.00.

Estimated Expenditures:

to salaries of Instructors

$74,600.00

to salaries of Officers

6,050.00

to fellowships and scholarships

5,450.00

to interest and sinking fund

21,287.00

to wages of employees

7,692.00

to working expenses

17,320.00

to miscellaneous

25,650.00

$158,249.00

Salaries of Instructors:

23 professors $3,000.00

$69,000.00

1 instructor in Latin

800.00

1 instructor in Physics

800.00

1 instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.00

1 director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor & Supt. of Grounds and Bldgs.

2,000.00

Secretary of Visitors

300.00

Secretary of Faculty

800.00

Secretary of Proctor

800.00

Librarian

800.00

Assistant Librarian

200.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

6,050.00

Fellowships and Scholarships:

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowships

1,050.00

2 Biological Fellowship

600.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

(1) 3 Miller Fellowships

300 00

900.00

6 State (Public School) scholarships

1,200.00

1 Board of Visitors scholarships

250.00

5,450.00

5,700.00

Interest and Sinking Fund:

Interest on old debt

5,170.00

Interest on new debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund (for re-investment)

2,067.00

Sinking fund,- old debt

2,050.00

Sinking fund,- new debt

2,000.00

$21,287.00

Wages of Employees

University artisan

$900.00

Engineer and Fireman

630.00

Day policeman and boss of hands

480.00

Night policeman

360.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitors of new buildings

450.00

3 Janitors of Randall buildings

270 00

405.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborer's (3 hands, 3 teamsters)

1,080.00

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.00

$7,692.00

Working Expenses:

Library (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.00

Library Special.

544.00

Astronomical Observatory

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

200.00

Biological Department

350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical (provided for by per capita chgs.)

Law Department (special)

500.00

Law Department

500.00

Infirmary

1,600.00

Hospital

2,050.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel, (for heat and electric light), except gas,

3,000.00

Gas

500.00

Maintenance of reservoir and pipe-line of water supply,

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed blanks,

200,00

Catalogues, Alumni Bulletin; and postage,

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$17,320.00

Miscellaneous:

$1,765.50

Estimated deficit on income of session 1901-02

2,500.00

Insurance

1 740 00

1,800.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutation of rents (11 professors)

3,300.00

Entertainment of University Alumni

150.00

Contingent fund

1,750.00

Final payment on Hospital construction

5,500.00

Architect's fees on Hospital construction

750.00

Heating for Hospital

2,800.00

Heating West Lawn

1,300.00

Fire Pump

500.00

Water Tank, Carr's Hill,

500.00

$25,850.00

At a regular meeting of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held on the 10th day of June, 1901, at 10 A. M.

Present: C. P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors: Geo. W. Miles, R. Walton Moore, Daniel Harmon, and Joseph Bryan.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and proceeded to business.

The following reports, petitions and papers were handed in for the consideration of the Board.

Chairman's Report.

Faculty Report.

Proctor's Report.

Various School Reports.

Various and sundry petitions, applications, etc.

After due consideration, the following resolutions were adopted:—

Resolved that all tuition fees, University fees, contingent deposits, rents of rooms in University buildings and charges for services in same, are payable upon entrance. Under special conditions, the Chairman is authorized to allow credit; but these deferred payments are in all cases to be properly secured.

The Proctor having laid before the Board the application of T. G. Peyton & Son, agents of certain Fire Insurance Companies, to be allowed to renew $40,000 of Fire Insurance which will expire the 26th June, 1901,—The Proctor is hereby authorized to renew $20,000 of said Insurance with said T. G. Peyton & Son, provided the rate is as low and the companies as secure and policies as favorable as the Proctor can otherwise obtain, and provided no interest of the University is adversely affected by so placing said insurance;- and the balance of said insurance he shall place with L. T. Hanckel & Son on their proposition submitted.

Resolved that the application of A. G. Robinson for rat- able return of fees be rejected.

Resolved that Eighteen Hundred ($1800) Dollars or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated to renew the insurance on the University buildings.

Resolved that that portion of the University lands known as the University farm, situated North of the Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. be and is hereby set apart for the use of the General Athletic Association of the University, in lieu of any grant heretofore made.

Resolved, further, that the said Athletic Association be and is hereby permitted to relay the present sewer pipe through the property, provided it is done in an efficient and workmanlike manner, and that any permission heretofore granted in connection with said sewer pipe be and is hereby modified in accordance with this resolution.

Resolved, further, that this permission is subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that there be paid to the architect of the hospital, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, the sum of $750.00, the balance of fees and traveling expenses due him.

Resolved that there be appropriated for supplying the hospital with a heating apparatus the sum of $2800.00.

Resolved that the annual appropriation of $600.00 heretofore made for the general maintenance of the hospital be increased by the sum of $1450, so that the total shall be $2050.00

Resolved that the Supt. of Grounds and Buildings be authorized to carry out the arrangement suggested in paragraph 5 of the Faculty's Report relating to conveying water to the Cemetery.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty in paragraph 8 of their Report, respecting the three Board of Visitors Scholarships, commonly known as the athletic scholarships heretofore established, is affirmed, and that such scholarships be and they are abolished.

Resolved that the sum of $300 be appropriated to continue the publication of the Bulletin.

Resolved that the Board appreciates the consideration of Mr. Charles Broadway Rouss in presenting a marble bust of himself to the University, and directs that the same shall be placed and preserved in the Physical Laboratory with which his liberality has connected the name of Mr. Rouss. The Secretary of this Board will transmit to Mr. Rouss a copy of this resolution.

The Rector and Visitors, of the University of Virginia return their thanks to John L. Williams, Esq., for the splendid portrait of Chief Justice Marshall which he has placed in the library of this institution. The Board takes especial pleasure in recognizing this tribute of affection from an alumnus who, having won its highest academic honor, now brings to his Alma Mater for the benefit and encouragement of those who follow him the picture of a great examplar of wisdom, learning, purity, and patriotism; and it is resolved that the Secretary be directed to transmit a copy of these resolutions to Mr. John L. Williams.

Resolved that the request of the Law Faculty for an additional appropriation of five hundred ($500.00) dollars with which to purchase law books be and the same is hereby granted for the ensuing year.

Resolved that the recommendation contained in paragraph 20 of the Faculty's report relative to the announcement of a course of study for those wishing to enter the government consular service be affirmed.

Resolved that students who present a baccalaureate degree or diplomas of graduation in Pharmacy, Dentistry or Veterinary Medicine, will, in accordance with the rules of the Association of American Medical Colleges, be entitled to the privilege of undertaking studies of the second year together with those of the first year.

Resolved that the recommendations of the Committee of the Medical Faculty contained in sections 3 and 4 of their report, with reference to keeping the hospital open during the summer be approved, and that the Medical Faculty are hereby authorized to put said recommendations into practical operation if in the judgment of said Faculty it is best to do so.

Resolved that Thomas Towles, who is under 16 years of age, be permitted to enter the University and attend the academic schools, on the same terms as students who are over 16 years; that he shall not be required for next session to pay any fees in the academic department. This is done out of our appreciation for the valuable services of his father, the late Dr. W. B. Towles who died while a professor of this University.

At this time, shortly after noon, Mr. H. H. Downing arrived and joined in the deliberations of the Board.

Resolved that, Dr. Barringer having withdrawn his resignation of the Chairmanship, there be paid him as his compensation for the ensuing year the sum of $500.00 in addition to the regular salary provided by section 104 of the laws in consideration of the extent and importance of the work that unusual conditions will impose on the Chairman in the near future; this arrangement to be regarded as temporary and not as permanently increasing the salary fixed by said section.

Resolved that Professors John Staige Davis and Raleigh C. Minor shall each hereafter receive the salary and have the use of a residence or the commutation in lieu thereof attached to a full professorship by sections 82 & 83 of the Laws,- and that Professor J. M. Page be made a full professor in his department and be entitled to the same salary and allowance.

Upon the recommendation and nomination of Mr. Albert S. Brown - Resolved that Jesse W. Downy, an applicant, be given the Valentine Birely Scholarship for the year 1901-1902.

Resolved that the following appropriations be made to be expended by the the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, for the following purposes

Resolved that the recommendation of the faculty be adopted and the appropriation for the library be increased to $1000.00 for the next year, and further that an additional appropriation of $200.00 be made for the services of an assistant to the librarian, and that the library be kept open at night until such hour as the faculty may direct, the said assistant to be appointed for the next year by the Chairman of the faculty with the advice and consent of the librarian.

Resolved that the action of the Miller Board in the appropriation of Three Hundred Dollars for an additional scholarship for the ensuing year, in accordance with the resolution of the Faculty which this Board has approved and the nomination of Mr. Peyton H. Bragg to fill said scholarship, be and the same is hereby approved by this Board.

The report of H. H. Downing and others, Committee appointed at the last November meeting to consider the propriety of permitting the Charlottesville City & Suburban Street Railway Co. to enter the grounds of the University, filed their report adverse to such privilege being granted, which report was adopted and ordered to be filed

"To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

Your Committee appointed at the November, 1900, meeting of the Board to consider the application of the Charlottesville City and Suburban Street Railway Co. for permission to enter the University grounds, begs leave to report that, since your Committee was appointed, considerable opposition has developed to the application of the said Street Railway Co., both by the Faculty and the student body of the University, and your Committee deems it inexpedient to allow said Street Railway Co. any other or further rights in the grounds of the University than those now enjoyed.

Resolved that the salary of the Commissioner of Accounts be increased to $150.00 annually.

Resolved that the Secretary of the Board is directed to acknowledge the receipt of the communication of the Md. Association of Alumni, with the Board's assurance that earnest efforts are being constantly made to maintain and increase the efficiency of the Medical Department, and, at the same time, the Secretary will express the Board's gratification at the interest in the welfare of the University displayed by the Md. Alumni.

Resolved that the application of J. Yates Porter, Jr., for the return of $1250 paid by him during the session 18991900 be granted, and that the Proctor return said sum to him.

The report of Daniel Harmon, Chairman, and Mr. Moore, of the Miller Board Committee, acting under the resolution of last June meeting, the action of the Miller Board, together with the written opinion of Dr. A. H. Tuttle and the conclusion reached by the joint committees, were presented, received, adopted, and ordered to be spread on the minutes of the Board:

"To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Va.

The undersigned were appointed a Committee to meet with a Committee of the Board of Miller Trustees to consider the proper method for the expenditure of the income from the Miller fund.

Several conferences were held with the Committee of the Miller Board, and we return herewith the report of the said Committee consisting of John M. White and George Perkins, together with the recommendation which accompanied said report and also a communication from Dr. Tuttle to the said Committee relating to the School of Agriculture.

Your Committee recommend that the said contract be executed in the belief that this will avoid all future misunderstanding of the question of the character which has arison between the Board of Visitors and the Miller Board. We do not, however, agree that the course of instruction which is offered by the Department of Agriculture at the University of Virginia fails to meet all the requirements of the deed of trust.

Under the deed by which this fund was created the Trustees of the fund are directed "to apply the interest, dividends, income and profits to the establishment, maintenance and support of a School of Experimental and Practical Agriculture to be constituted and established at the University of Virginia by authorities thereof—the course and methods of instruction in said School to be regulated and prescribed by the proper authorities of the said University of Virginia."

The definition of Agriculture given by Dr. Tuttle is a definition of a practical subject and the scope of instruction offered at the University is well within this definition.

Mr. Miller's deed shows the purpose he had in view in creating this fund. This purpose is evidenced by the following language: "The said Samual Miller desired to constitute and perpetuate a fund the principal of which shall remain intact and the interest, income and profits therefrom shall be expended and applied for the advancement of Agriculture as a science and as a practical art by the instruction thereon and in the sciences connected therewith, of the youths of the country, so far as the fund hereby created will avail for the purpose."

From the above we derive his ideas as to what should be taught in the school as well as his ideas of what was meant by the terms experimental and practical agriculture, and we consider that a School of Practical Agriculture is a School in which is taught the manner in which Agriculture can be most successfully conducted, while a School of Experimental Agriculture is a School in which instruction is accompanied by experimentation, and this experimentation need not necessarily be for the purpose of testing new theories but may as well be applied to old established principles. The experimentations, however new to the learner, are perhaps familiar to the teacher, or if not to him there will be some one else who has tried and tested their efficiency; so an experimental school must necessarily relate to testing something that is already known, and is thus distinguished from a school of practical instruction, so we consider a School of Practical Agriculture embraces that instruction which will be for the greatest practical good.

The State Board of Agriculture of Virginia will at once be recognized as a practical body endeavoring to disseminate information of immediate value to practical men, with the end, as they express it, of "inducing our farmers to adopt new methods of farming and getting out of old ruts." Having these ends in view the publications of this Board, the practical value of which cannot be overestimated, will be found to deal with the same subjects that are included in the scope of our School of Agriculture. It cannot be doubted that Mr. Miller had in view the same object that the Agricultural Department of the State was striving for, namely, "the advancement of Agriculture as a science and as a practical art," with the result of accomplishing the greatest advantage to those engaged in it and the consequent benefit to the State. It is in this field that our school offers instruction. It is instruction that teaches the application of experience and intelligence to agriculture, and hence we consider it fully meets the requirements of the deed.

The experimental feature, it is true, is not carried out as is the practical. The fund is far inadequate for both. The experimental farm was tried and found a failure. The present plan is attended with a greater measure of success. The policy of the University of Virginia has always been to furnish well grounded instruction in the practical principles underlying each subject taught, regarding experimentation of minor importance. Mr. Miller was undoubtedly aware of this fact, and as the fund he left is inadequate to cover both fields to advantage, he must have known that the fixed policy of the University of Virginia would not be departed from, and what this School is offering meets his views as far as it is possible to do so, and along lines that will result in the greatest good to the object of his bounty; and besides the deed seems to contemplate the possibility of some curtailment of the full attainment of his wishes might be necessary, for the course of instruction was to extend "so far as the funds created will avail for the present."

We conclude, therefore, that the scope of this School fulfills the trust in both the spirit and the letter of the deed creating the fund.

Very respectfully,

D. Harmon, Chairman,

R. Walton Moore."

"To the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund of the University of Virginia:

At the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Miller Fund held June 13, 1899, a resolution was adopted expressing the conviction that the school, of which Prof. Tuttle is the head, is not devoted to practical and experimental agriculture to the extent contemplated by Mr. Miller and requested the Board of Visitors "to take such action in the premises as will meet the requirement of the deed under which this board is constituted."

And at a meeting of the said Trustees held June 12, 1900, a committee of two, consisting of John M. White and George Perkins was appointed to confer with a similar committee to be appointed by the Board of Visitors to report a plan of settlement under the resolution of June 13, 1899.

This Committee, with Mr. D. Harmon, one of the Committee of two appointed by the Board of Visitors, held several meetings, and had one or two interviews with Prof. Tuttle, who furnished us with two communications in writing, which we beg leave to return with this report, also a copy of Prof. Dunnington's examination, which sets out pretty clearly the extent agriculture is taught in his school. We judge the school over which Prof. Tuttle presides was especially referred to because that school is supported exclusively by the Miller fund, and we believe was established in consequence of the Miller gift.

As no specific facts are given, we further conclude that it is our duty to inquire as to whether the course in this school, coupled with the subject relative to Agriculture taught by Professors Dunnington and Thornton, carry out the intuition of Mr. Miller, as set out in his deed, as far as, or in the best direction possible, with the available funds and if not what changes are necessary. Your Committee is of opinion that while it may be true, that the subjects taught and the manner of teaching them may not afford instruction in "practical and experimental agriculture, to the extent intended by Mr. Miller, we do not believe that the funds provided by him are expended in the most practical and useful way for the advancement of agricultural learning as a science, in the University of Virginia.

We quote from one of Prof. Tuttle's communications herewith filed"

"Agriculture, as I understand it, is primarily the art of cultivating the soil with a view to profit; in its usual sense it includes the successful raising and marketing of crop alike of plants and of animals, or of their products. Its theory is based upon the science of Chemistry, Botany, and Zoology, and its intelligent practice involves the application of their facts and principals and those of other allied but less fundamental sciences, such as Geology, Physics and Mechanics. Agricultural education demands, therefore, at the outset instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to the art in question, and subsequent by the discussion of its principals and processes as based upon them."

With the object of Mr. Miller before us, as shown by his deed, with the meaning of Agriculture clearly defined as above set out and in as much as the school of Biology and Agriculture over which Prof. Tuttle presides, affords instruction in the science of Botany and Zoology, two of the principal subjects included in the theory of Agriculture, Botany concerning plants, vegetables, their structure, growth and cultivation; and Zoology concerning animal life, the study of the vital processes of animal life, the habits of animals, the treatment of external and internal animal parasites, and the like— while the third chief factor constituting the theory of Agriculture, viz., Chemistry, is offered by Prof. Dunnington, who fills the chair of analytical and Agricultural Chemistry, and which deals with the chemical structure of soils, the composition of vegetable and animal substances and the chemical processes involved in the lives of plants and animals; the compounding of fertilizers relative to various crops, and of food stuffs in relation to stock feeding, and other like matters,— and in as much as experimental farming as commonly understood has been practiced in this School, declared by this Board to be a failure, and abandoned as impracticable, producing no good results. We conclude that the Schools in the Agricultural department of the University do carry out Mr Miller's intention as far as the funds provided permit, and that the funds are expended in the way to accomplish the most good with students desiring to punsue this course. Your Committee believes that it is inexpedient to formulate any rule which may not from time to time be changed in some of its details, but we see no reason why a plan may not be agreed upon, sufficiently exact to satisfy all concerned, that the Miller fund will be devoted in good faith to the object in view, without imposing such limitations as will forbid the exercise of intelligent discretion on the part of the University authority. Your Committee is therefore of the opinion that (while there may be additions to the studies named or the plan of instruction may be varied from time to time,) the following subjects should be offered to students of the University of Virginia.

A.- The sciences upon which the art of crop raising is distinctly based, namely

Chemistry, including

General Chemistry as a science;

Chemistry as related to Agriculture.

Botany, including

Botany as a science,

Botany as related to Agriculture.

Zoology, including

Zoology as a science,

Zoology as related to Agriculture.

B.- The principles of Agriculture as based upon these sciences, and the retionals and economics of the various processes involved. As now advised, it appears that to carry on instruction in practical and experimental Agriculture further than above indicated would create a School without scholars and deprive many of the advantages of instruction in the scientific bases of Agriculture. Your Committee suggests that the Agreement drawn on separate sheets and herewith returned shall be adopted by the Board, presented to the Board of Visitors for its approval, and, when approved by that Board, that the Agreement be spread upon the Records of both Bodies as the conclusion of this matter.

Grateful acknowledgment to Prof. Tuttle is here made for the valuable information furnished by him in conference and by written communication, for his patient efforts to further the work of the Committee, and for the assistance he has rendered in the preparation of this report—while to Prof. Dunnington, as well, the Committee offers sincere thanks and recognizes the obligation which his kindly service has imposed.

Resp'y submitted,

November 3rd, 1900."

In response to your request for a statement of my views regarding the essentials of agricultural education, I would respectfully submit the following

Agriculture, as I understand it, is primarily the art of cultivating the soil with a view to profit: in its usual sense it includes the successful raising and marketing of crops alike of plants and of animals, or of their products.

Its theory is based upon the sciences of Chemistry, Botany, and Zoology, and its intelligent practice involves the application of their facts and principles, and those of other allied but less definitely fundamental sciences, such as Geology, Physics and Mechanics. Agricultural education demands, therefore, at the outset, instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to the art in question, and subsequently the discussion of its principles and processes as based upon them.

Instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to agriculture might properly include in the case of Chemistry not only the leading facts and laws of the science but also its methods and its technique, as applied alike to analysis and to synthesis: the chemical (and associated physical) structure of soils the composition of vegetable and animal substances and the chemical processes involved in the lives of plants and animals: the composition and intelligent compounding of fertilizers in relation to various crops of plants, and of food stuffs in their relation to stock-feeding: the composition and characteristics of vegetable and animal products in relation to their preservation and storage: and other subjects of a kindred nature.

In the case of Botany such instruction might properly include the discussion of the structure of the various types of plants, and their systematic classification as based thereon: the principles of vegetable physiology in general, and in particular the laws of nutrition, growth and multiplication, special attention being given on one hand to the higher groups from which the leading crop-plants are derived, and to the lower groups which compose the greater number of forms injurious to the plants and animals in which the agriculturist is interested; in connection with the former might be pursued the study of the origin, history and modes of production of cultivated varieties, and with the latter the study of the diseases and parasites of crop-plants which form in a number of cases the most serious obstacle to crop-raising, as well as the relation of the organisms in question to the infectious diseases of live-stock with other allied topics. In the case of Zoology such instruction would include a similar consideration of the fundamental facts and laws of animal life, the structure and classification of animals, and the study of their vital processes, especially of the anatomy and physiology of the highest types of animals, which includes nearly all the species involved in stock-farming: the habits and life-histories of insects, particularly those that are either injurious or bebficial: the nature and treatment of external and internal animal parasites: and the like.

A discussion of the general theory or principles of Agriculture based upon such fundamental knowledge of the most important sciences as is indicated above may properly include the consideration of soils as regards their composition, situation and exposure: the methods of reclaiming waste lands: the principles of drainage; tillage and the management of crops in such manner as to obtain profitable returns without diminution of fertility the choice and rotation of crops; the principles of husbandry, as applied to the storage and care of crop-products and food supplies: the housing and care of stock the hygiene of the farm, and the best methods of protection against the insect pests and fungous or bacterial plagues to which staple crops are subject: the specific care and culture of particular crops the methods and value of intensive farming the conduct and significance of agricul- tural experimentation: and many other similar subjects.

This discussion may perhaps be summarized as follows:

Agricultural Education involves the study of

A.—The sciences upon which the art of crop-raising is directly based, namely,

Chemistry, including

General Chemistry as a science;

Chemistry as related to agriculture.

Botany, including

Botany as a science;

Botany as related to agriculture.

Zoology, including

Zoology as a science;

Zoology as related to agriculture.

B.—The Principles of Agriculture as based upon these sciences, and the rationale and economics of the various processes involved.

The Committee appointed by this Board on the 12th of June, 1900, having made a report recommending the following as a basis of settlement of the question as to how the Miller fund shall be expended to carry out as far as practicable the intention of Mr. Miller as expressed in his deed, it is ordered that the same be presented to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for approval, and, when approved by that Board, it shall be spread upon the Records of the Miller Board, and the Board of Visitors is requested to have the like entry made on its Minutes.

In order that the object of the late Samuel Miller in providing a fund for the advancement of agriculture may be met —the instruction incident to that object to be furnished by the University of Virginia, and the expenses of the same to be paid from said fund as now appropriated, it is agreed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Trustees of the Miller fund that the following subjects shall be offered to the students of the University and taught whenever desired, under such Rules and Regulations as may be prescribed by the University authorities—that is to say—

A.—The sciences upon which the art of crop-raising is directly based, namely,

Chemistry, including

General Chemistry as a science;

Chemistry as related to Agriculture.

Botany, including

Botany as a science,

Botany as related to Agriculture.

Zoology, including

Zoology as a science;

Zoology as related to Agriculture.

B.—The Principles of Agriculture as based upon these sciences, and the rationale and economics of the various processes involved. The course of study thus indicated may be enlarged if circumstances warrant, and methods of instruction may be varied if those in authority at the University of Virginia think it wise: but the special object of this paper is to formulate what, in the opinion of the Miller Board, is indespensable from the standpoint of fidelity to Mr. Miller's directions hence, while enlargement of the plan suggested will not be opposed, its diminution is not to be attempted, but the subjects named shall be offered to Students at the University of Virginia during each scholastic year, so long as the Miller Fund is connected with that institution."

Resolved that the Board of Visitors has heard with deep satisfaction, and appreciate the suggestion that the Constitutional Convention may determine to hold its sessions at this place, and the Board respectfully tenders the Convention the use of the grounds, buildings and library of the University.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty, that the rule requiring two years of study in the department of Law as a condition precedent to graduation, be suspended in the case of Mr. H. S. Daniel on account of the peculiar circumstances stated in the recommendation of the Faculty, be adopted, and that the Faculty be and they are hereby authorized to confer the degree of Bachelor of Laws on H. S. Daniel.

Resolved that Prof. Echols, on behalf of the Board, be requested to offer the John Y. Mason Fellowship to Mr. David C. Gillespie in the event of his declination, the Executive Committee shall appoint the said fellowship.

Resolved that the Proctor be authorized to pay for the Medals advertised in the catalogue as being offered for the present year to the Washington, and Jefferson Literary Soci- eties by the Board of Visitors.

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 10:00 A.M. tomorrow.

Charles P. Jones, Rector

J. B. Faulkner, Secretary.

June 11,- 1901, the Board met pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, Mr. C. P. Jones, and Messrs. Harmon, Miles, Downing, and Moore.

The following was enacted:-

Resolved that Mr. Miles be appointed a Committee on the Austin bequest to ascertain and report what further arrangements should be made relative to it. The Proctor shall pay such expenses as Mr. Miles may find it necessary to incur.

Resolved that Mr. Harmon and Col. Carter be appointed a Committee to consider Mr. Wills' proposition to occupy a lot on the University grounds for the erection of a drug store, and to make such a contract with Mr. Wills as they may think best, the same to be expressed in a proper, written instrument.

The attention of the faculty is called to the fact that the Board has been generous in the appropriations for the session 1901-02. In order to meet these appropriations it will be necessary for us to have 700 students. This cannot be accomplished without the zealous and earnest efforts of the members of the faculty during the coming vacation, and we confidently expect that they will not fail to bring about this result. The Secretary is requested to communicate a copy of this resolution to the Chairman of the faculty at once.

In as much as Mr. Bradley Walker accepted a Board of Visitors Scholarship last year with the expectation that the same should be continued, and as he has been an excellent student, be it resolved that the said scholarship is continued in his favor for the next session.

The following is an estimate of the receipts for the year 1901-1902.

Out of the income of the University for the year 19011902, the following appropriations are made:

Estimated Deficit - - - -

Note:—

Instead of a deficit, the season now closing would have shown a handsome surplus—about $14,000.00—if there had not been large expenditures ordered during the session—$10,900.00 for Hospital construction, about $765.00 for extra Infirmary expenses caused by cases of typhoid fever and smallpox, nearly $1,250.00 for installation of electric lights, and about $1,200.00 for legal counsel, suits, etc. Even with all this extra expenditure, the accounts of the session would pretty nearly balance if all sums due from students could be collected. On May 24th, there remained due and uncollected from this source $3,073.70; it is estimated that about $600.00 will be paid between that date and the end of the session, leaving an estimated deficit as above stated.

On motion the Board adjourned.

For extending the steam heating system to the buildings on West Lawn, ——

$1 300.00

For a water tank on Carr's Hill, —

500.00

For a pump in the boiler house as a fire protection,

500.00

Total

$2,300.00

At a regular meeting of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held on the 10th day of June, 1901, at 10 A. M.

Present: C. P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors: Geo. W. Miles, R. Walton Moore, Daniel Harmon, and Joseph Bryan.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and proceeded to business.

The following reports, petitions and papers were handed in for the consideration of the Board.

Chairman's Report.

Faculty Report.

Proctor's Report.

Various School Reports.

Various and sundry petitions, applications, etc.

After due consideration, the following resolutions were adopted:—

Resolved that all tuition fees, University fees, contingent deposits, rents of rooms in University buildings and charges for services in same, are payable upon entrance. Under special conditions, the Chairman is authorized to allow credit; but these deferred payments are in all cases to be properly secured.

The Proctor having laid before the Board the application of T. G. Peyton & Son, agents of certain Fire Insurance Companies, to be allowed to renew $40,000 of Fire Insurance which will expire the 26th June, 1901,—The Proctor is hereby authorized to renew $20,000 of said Insurance with said T. G. Peyton & Son, provided the rate is as low and the companies as secure and policies as favorable as the Proctor can otherwise obtain, and provided no interest of the University is adversely affected by so placing said insurance;- and the balance of said insurance he shall place with L. T. Hanckel & Son on their proposition submitted.

Resolved that the application of A. G. Robinson for rat- able return of fees be rejected.

Resolved that Eighteen Hundred ($1800) Dollars or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated to renew the insurance on the University buildings.

Resolved that that portion of the University lands known as the University farm, situated North of the Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. be and is hereby set apart for the use of the General Athletic Association of the University, in lieu of any grant heretofore made.

Resolved, further, that the said Athletic Association be and is hereby permitted to relay the present sewer pipe through the property, provided it is done in an efficient and workmanlike manner, and that any permission heretofore granted in connection with said sewer pipe be and is hereby modified in accordance with this resolution.

Resolved, further, that this permission is subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that there be paid to the architect of the hospital, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, the sum of $750.00, the balance of fees and traveling expenses due him.

Resolved that there be appropriated for supplying the hospital with a heating apparatus the sum of $2800.00.

Resolved that the annual appropriation of $600.00 heretofore made for the general maintenance of the hospital be increased by the sum of $1450, so that the total shall be $2050.00

Resolved that the Supt. of Grounds and Buildings be authorized to carry out the arrangement suggested in paragraph 5 of the Faculty's Report relating to conveying water to the Cemetery.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty in paragraph 8 of their Report, respecting the three Board of Visitors Scholarships, commonly known as the athletic scholarships heretofore established, is affirmed, and that such scholarships be and they are abolished.

Resolved that the sum of $300 be appropriated to continue the publication of the Bulletin.

Resolved that the Board appreciates the consideration of Mr. Charles Broadway Rouss in presenting a marble bust of himself to the University, and directs that the same shall be placed and preserved in the Physical Laboratory with which his liberality has connected the name of Mr. Rouss. The Secretary of this Board will transmit to Mr. Rouss a copy of this resolution.

The Rector and Visitors, of the University of Virginia return their thanks to John L. Williams, Esq., for the splendid portrait of Chief Justice Marshall which he has placed in the library of this institution. The Board takes especial pleasure in recognizing this tribute of affection from an alumnus who, having won its highest academic honor, now brings to his Alma Mater for the benefit and encouragement of those who follow him the picture of a great examplar of wisdom, learning, purity, and patriotism; and it is resolved that the Secretary be directed to transmit a copy of these resolutions to Mr. John L. Williams.

Resolved that the request of the Law Faculty for an additional appropriation of five hundred ($500.00) dollars with which to purchase law books be and the same is hereby granted for the ensuing year.

Resolved that the recommendation contained in paragraph 20 of the Faculty's report relative to the announcement of a course of study for those wishing to enter the government consular service be affirmed.

Resolved that students who present a baccalaureate degree or diplomas of graduation in Pharmacy, Dentistry or Veterinary Medicine, will, in accordance with the rules of the Association of American Medical Colleges, be entitled to the privilege of undertaking studies of the second year together with those of the first year.

Resolved that the recommendations of the Committee of the Medical Faculty contained in sections 3 and 4 of their report, with reference to keeping the hospital open during the summer be approved, and that the Medical Faculty are hereby authorized to put said recommendations into practical operation if in the judgment of said Faculty it is best to do so.

Resolved that Thomas Towles, who is under 16 years of age, be permitted to enter the University and attend the academic schools, on the same terms as students who are over 16 years; that he shall not be required for next session to pay any fees in the academic department. This is done out of our appreciation for the valuable services of his father, the late Dr. W. B. Towles who died while a professor of this University.

At this time, shortly after noon, Mr. H. H. Downing arrived and joined in the deliberations of the Board.

Resolved that, Dr. Barringer having withdrawn his resignation of the Chairmanship, there be paid him as his compensation for the ensuing year the sum of $500.00 in addition to the regular salary provided by section 104 of the laws in consideration of the extent and importance of the work that unusual conditions will impose on the Chairman in the near future; this arrangement to be regarded as temporary and not as permanently increasing the salary fixed by said section.

Resolved that Professors John Staige Davis and Raleigh C. Minor shall each hereafter receive the salary and have the use of a residence or the commutation in lieu thereof attached to a full professorship by sections 82 & 83 of the Laws,- and that Professor J. M. Page be made a full professor in his department and be entitled to the same salary and allowance.

Upon the recommendation and nomination of Mr. Albert S. Brown - Resolved that Jesse W. Downy, an applicant, be given the Valentine Birely Scholarship for the year 1901-1902.

Resolved that the following appropriations be made to be expended by the the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, for the following purposes

Resolved that the recommendation of the faculty be adopted and the appropriation for the library be increased to $1000.00 for the next year, and further that an additional appropriation of $200.00 be made for the services of an assistant to the librarian, and that the library be kept open at night until such hour as the faculty may direct, the said assistant to be appointed for the next year by the Chairman of the faculty with the advice and consent of the librarian.

Resolved that the action of the Miller Board in the appropriation of Three Hundred Dollars for an additional scholarship for the ensuing year, in accordance with the resolution of the Faculty which this Board has approved and the nomination of Mr. Peyton H. Bragg to fill said scholarship, be and the same is hereby approved by this Board.

The report of H. H. Downing and others, Committee appointed at the last November meeting to consider the propriety of permitting the Charlottesville City & Suburban Street Railway Co. to enter the grounds of the University, filed their report adverse to such privilege being granted, which report was adopted and ordered to be filed

"To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

Your Committee appointed at the November, 1900, meeting of the Board to consider the application of the Charlottesville City and Suburban Street Railway Co. for permission to enter the University grounds, begs leave to report that, since your Committee was appointed, considerable opposition has developed to the application of the said Street Railway Co., both by the Faculty and the student body of the University, and your Committee deems it inexpedient to allow said Street Railway Co. any other or further rights in the grounds of the University than those now enjoyed.

In response to your request for a statement of my views regarding the essentials of agricultural education, I would respectfully submit the following

Agriculture, as I understand it, is primarily the art of cultivating the soil with a view to profit: in its usual sense it includes the successful raising and marketing of crops alike of plants and of animals, or of their products.

Its theory is based upon the sciences of Chemistry, Botany, and Zoology, and its intelligent practice involves the application of their facts and principles, and those of other allied but less definitely fundamental sciences, such as Geology, Physics and Mechanics. Agricultural education demands, therefore, at the outset, instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to the art in question, and subsequently the discussion of its principles and processes as based upon them.

Instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to agriculture might properly include in the case of Chemistry not only the leading facts and laws of the science but also its methods and its technique, as applied alike to analysis and to synthesis: the chemical (and associated physical) structure of soils the composition of vegetable and animal substances and the chemical processes involved in the lives of plants and animals: the composition and intelligent compounding of fertilizers in relation to various crops of plants, and of food stuffs in their relation to stock-feeding: the composition and characteristics of vegetable and animal products in relation to their preservation and storage: and other subjects of a kindred nature.

In the case of Botany such instruction might properly include the discussion of the structure of the various types of plants, and their systematic classification as based thereon: the principles of vegetable physiology in general, and in particular the laws of nutrition, growth and multiplication, special attention being given on one hand to the higher groups from which the leading crop-plants are derived, and to the lower groups which compose the greater number of forms injurious to the plants and animals in which the agriculturist is interested; in connection with the former might be pursued the study of the origin, history and modes of production of cultivated varieties, and with the latter the study of the diseases and parasites of crop-plants which form in a number of cases the most serious obstacle to crop-raising, as well as the relation of the organisms in question to the infectious diseases of live-stock with other allied topics. In the case of Zoology such instruction would include a similar consideration of the fundamental facts and laws of animal life, the structure and classification of animals, and the study of their vital processes, especially of the anatomy and physiology of the highest types of animals, which includes nearly all the species involved in stock-farming: the habits and life-histories of insects, particularly those that are either injurious or bebficial: the nature and treatment of external and internal animal parasites: and the like.

A discussion of the general theory or principles of Agriculture based upon such fundamental knowledge of the most important sciences as is indicated above may properly include the consideration of soils as regards their composition, situation and exposure: the methods of reclaiming waste lands: the principles of drainage; tillage and the management of crops in such manner as to obtain profitable returns without diminution of fertility the choice and rotation of crops; the principles of husbandry, as applied to the storage and care of crop-products and food supplies: the housing and care of stock the hygiene of the farm, and the best methods of protection against the insect pests and fungous or bacterial plagues to which staple crops are subject: the specific care and culture of particular crops the methods and value of intensive farming the conduct and significance of agricul- tural experimentation: and many other similar subjects.

This discussion may perhaps be summarized as follows:

Agricultural Education involves the study of

A.—The sciences upon which the art of crop-raising is directly based, namely,

Chemistry, including

General Chemistry as a science;

Chemistry as related to agriculture.

Botany, including

Botany as a science;

Botany as related to agriculture.

Zoology, including

Zoology as a science;

Zoology as related to agriculture.

B.—The Principles of Agriculture as based upon these sciences, and the rationale and economics of the various processes involved.

Itemized estimate of expenditures.
----------------------------------

Estimated Receipts

from State Annuity

$50,000.00

from Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

from Miller Fund

6,300.00

from Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

from Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

from Madison Library

156.00

from Gordon Library

300.00

from Byrd Library

$390 00

360.00

from Mason Fellowship

210.00

from Brown Scholarship

120.00

from Birely Scholarship

220.00

from Rents of 2 hotels

540.00

from Rents of 2 mess-halls

360.00

from Rents of "Temperance Hall,"

544 00

463.00

from Rents of Infirmary

450.00

from Rents of Cottage

48.00

from Rents of Alumni Hall,

420 00

400.00

from Rents of blacksmith shop

36.00

from Interest on sinking fund

1,786 00

2,067.00

from Steam heating from students & profs.

750.00

from Electric light furnished

2,600.00

from rent from Randall Building

2,825.00.

from Students' payments (under all heads) 700 at $110.oo

77,000.00

Total estimated receipts

$158,660.00.

Estimated Expenditures:

to salaries of Instructors

$74,600.00

to salaries of Officers

6,050.00

to fellowships and scholarships

5,450.00

to interest and sinking fund

21,287.00

to wages of employees

7,692.00

to working expenses

17,320.00

to miscellaneous

25,650.00

$158,249.00

Salaries of Instructors:

23 professors $3,000.00

$69,000.00

1 instructor in Latin

800.00

1 instructor in Physics

800.00

1 instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.00

1 director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor & Supt. of Grounds and Bldgs.

2,000.00

Secretary of Visitors

300.00

Secretary of Faculty

800.00

Secretary of Proctor

800.00

Librarian

800.00

Assistant Librarian

200.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

6,050.00

Fellowships and Scholarships:

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowships

1,050.00

2 Biological Fellowship

600.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

(1) 3 Miller Fellowships

300 00

900.00

6 State (Public School) scholarships

1,200.00

1 Board of Visitors scholarships

250.00

5,450.00

5,700.00

Interest and Sinking Fund:

Interest on old debt

5,170.00

Interest on new debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund (for re-investment)

2,067.00

Sinking fund,- old debt

2,050.00

Sinking fund,- new debt

2,000.00

$21,287.00

Wages of Employees

University artisan

$900.00

Engineer and Fireman

630.00

Day policeman and boss of hands

480.00

Night policeman

360.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitors of new buildings

450.00

3 Janitors of Randall buildings

270 00

405.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborer's (3 hands, 3 teamsters)

1,080.00

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.00

$7,692.00

Working Expenses:

Library (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.00

Library Special.

544.00

Astronomical Observatory

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

200.00

Biological Department

350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical (provided for by per capita chgs.)

Law Department (special)

500.00

Law Department

500.00

Infirmary

1,600.00

Hospital

2,050.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel, (for heat and electric light), except gas,

3,000.00

Gas

500.00

Maintenance of reservoir and pipe-line of water supply,

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed blanks,

200,00

Catalogues, Alumni Bulletin; and postage,

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$17,320.00

Miscellaneous:

$1,765.50

Estimated deficit on income of session 1901-02

2,500.00

Insurance

1 740 00

1,800.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutation of rents (11 professors)

3,300.00

Entertainment of University Alumni

150.00

Contingent fund

1,750.00

Final payment on Hospital construction

5,500.00

Architect's fees on Hospital construction

750.00

Heating for Hospital

2,800.00

Heating West Lawn

1,300.00

Fire Pump

500.00

Water Tank, Carr's Hill,

500.00

$25,850.00

June 11,- 1901, the Board met pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, Mr. C. P. Jones, and Messrs. Harmon, Miles, Downing, and Moore.

The following was enacted:-

Resolved that Mr. Miles be appointed a Committee on the Austin bequest to ascertain and report what further arrangements should be made relative to it. The Proctor shall pay such expenses as Mr. Miles may find it necessary to incur.

Resolved that Mr. Harmon and Col. Carter be appointed a Committee to consider Mr. Wills' proposition to occupy a lot on the University grounds for the erection of a drug store, and to make such a contract with Mr. Wills as they may think best, the same to be expressed in a proper, written instrument.

The attention of the faculty is called to the fact that the Board has been generous in the appropriations for the session 1901-02. In order to meet these appropriations it will be necessary for us to have 700 students. This cannot be accomplished without the zealous and earnest efforts of the members of the faculty during the coming vacation, and we confidently expect that they will not fail to bring about this result. The Secretary is requested to communicate a copy of this resolution to the Chairman of the faculty at once.

In as much as Mr. Bradley Walker accepted a Board of Visitors Scholarship last year with the expectation that the same should be continued, and as he has been an excellent student, be it resolved that the said scholarship is continued in his favor for the next session.

The following is an estimate of the receipts for the year 1901-1902.

Out of the income of the University for the year 19011902, the following appropriations are made:

Estimated Deficit - - - -

Note:—

Instead of a deficit, the season now closing would have shown a handsome surplus—about $14,000.00—if there had not been large expenditures ordered during the session—$10,900.00 for Hospital construction, about $765.00 for extra Infirmary expenses caused by cases of typhoid fever and smallpox, nearly $1,250.00 for installation of electric lights, and about $1,200.00 for legal counsel, suits, etc. Even with all this extra expenditure, the accounts of the session would pretty nearly balance if all sums due from students could be collected. On May 24th, there remained due and uncollected from this source $3,073.70; it is estimated that about $600.00 will be paid between that date and the end of the session, leaving an estimated deficit as above stated.

On motion the Board adjourned.

For extending the steam heating system to the buildings on West Lawn, ——

$1 300.00

For a water tank on Carr's Hill, —

500.00

For a pump in the boiler house as a fire protection,

500.00

Total

$2,300.00

At a regular meeting of the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held on the 10th day of June, 1901, at 10 A. M.

Present: C. P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors: Geo. W. Miles, R. Walton Moore, Daniel Harmon, and Joseph Bryan.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and proceeded to business.

The following reports, petitions and papers were handed in for the consideration of the Board.

Chairman's Report.

Faculty Report.

Proctor's Report.

Various School Reports.

Various and sundry petitions, applications, etc.

After due consideration, the following resolutions were adopted:—

Resolved that all tuition fees, University fees, contingent deposits, rents of rooms in University buildings and charges for services in same, are payable upon entrance. Under special conditions, the Chairman is authorized to allow credit; but these deferred payments are in all cases to be properly secured.

The Proctor having laid before the Board the application of T. G. Peyton & Son, agents of certain Fire Insurance Companies, to be allowed to renew $40,000 of Fire Insurance which will expire the 26th June, 1901,—The Proctor is hereby authorized to renew $20,000 of said Insurance with said T. G. Peyton & Son, provided the rate is as low and the companies as secure and policies as favorable as the Proctor can otherwise obtain, and provided no interest of the University is adversely affected by so placing said insurance;- and the balance of said insurance he shall place with L. T. Hanckel & Son on their proposition submitted.

Resolved that the application of A. G. Robinson for rat- able return of fees be rejected.

Resolved that Eighteen Hundred ($1800) Dollars or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated to renew the insurance on the University buildings.

Resolved that that portion of the University lands known as the University farm, situated North of the Chesapeake & Ohio R. R. be and is hereby set apart for the use of the General Athletic Association of the University, in lieu of any grant heretofore made.

Resolved, further, that the said Athletic Association be and is hereby permitted to relay the present sewer pipe through the property, provided it is done in an efficient and workmanlike manner, and that any permission heretofore granted in connection with said sewer pipe be and is hereby modified in accordance with this resolution.

Resolved, further, that this permission is subject to revocation at the will of the Board.

Resolved that there be paid to the architect of the hospital, Mr. Paul J. Pelz, the sum of $750.00, the balance of fees and traveling expenses due him.

Resolved that there be appropriated for supplying the hospital with a heating apparatus the sum of $2800.00.

Resolved that the annual appropriation of $600.00 heretofore made for the general maintenance of the hospital be increased by the sum of $1450, so that the total shall be $2050.00

Resolved that the Supt. of Grounds and Buildings be authorized to carry out the arrangement suggested in paragraph 5 of the Faculty's Report relating to conveying water to the Cemetery.

Resolved that the recommendation of the Faculty in paragraph 8 of their Report, respecting the three Board of Visitors Scholarships, commonly known as the athletic scholarships heretofore established, is affirmed, and that such scholarships be and they are abolished.

Resolved that the sum of $300 be appropriated to continue the publication of the Bulletin.

Resolved that the Board appreciates the consideration of Mr. Charles Broadway Rouss in presenting a marble bust of himself to the University, and directs that the same shall be placed and preserved in the Physical Laboratory with which his liberality has connected the name of Mr. Rouss. The Secretary of this Board will transmit to Mr. Rouss a copy of this resolution.

The Rector and Visitors, of the University of Virginia return their thanks to John L. Williams, Esq., for the splendid portrait of Chief Justice Marshall which he has placed in the library of this institution. The Board takes especial pleasure in recognizing this tribute of affection from an alumnus who, having won its highest academic honor, now brings to his Alma Mater for the benefit and encouragement of those who follow him the picture of a great examplar of wisdom, learning, purity, and patriotism; and it is resolved that the Secretary be directed to transmit a copy of these resolutions to Mr. John L. Williams.

Resolved that the request of the Law Faculty for an additional appropriation of five hundred ($500.00) dollars with which to purchase law books be and the same is hereby granted for the ensuing year.

Resolved that the recommendation contained in paragraph 20 of the Faculty's report relative to the announcement of a course of study for those wishing to enter the government consular service be affirmed.

Resolved that students who present a baccalaureate degree or diplomas of graduation in Pharmacy, Dentistry or Veterinary Medicine, will, in accordance with the rules of the Association of American Medical Colleges, be entitled to the privilege of undertaking studies of the second year together with those of the first year.

Resolved that the recommendations of the Committee of the Medical Faculty contained in sections 3 and 4 of their report, with reference to keeping the hospital open during the summer be approved, and that the Medical Faculty are hereby authorized to put said recommendations into practical operation if in the judgment of said Faculty it is best to do so.

Resolved that Thomas Towles, who is under 16 years of age, be permitted to enter the University and attend the academic schools, on the same terms as students who are over 16 years; that he shall not be required for next session to pay any fees in the academic department. This is done out of our appreciation for the valuable services of his father, the late Dr. W. B. Towles who died while a professor of this University.

At this time, shortly after noon, Mr. H. H. Downing arrived and joined in the deliberations of the Board.

Resolved that, Dr. Barringer having withdrawn his resignation of the Chairmanship, there be paid him as his compensation for the ensuing year the sum of $500.00 in addition to the regular salary provided by section 104 of the laws in consideration of the extent and importance of the work that unusual conditions will impose on the Chairman in the near future; this arrangement to be regarded as temporary and not as permanently increasing the salary fixed by said section.

Resolved that Professors John Staige Davis and Raleigh C. Minor shall each hereafter receive the salary and have the use of a residence or the commutation in lieu thereof attached to a full professorship by sections 82 & 83 of the Laws,- and that Professor J. M. Page be made a full professor in his department and be entitled to the same salary and allowance.

Upon the recommendation and nomination of Mr. Albert S. Brown - Resolved that Jesse W. Downy, an applicant, be given the Valentine Birely Scholarship for the year 1901-1902.

Resolved that the following appropriations be made to be expended by the the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings, for the following purposes

Resolved that the recommendation of the faculty be adopted and the appropriation for the library be increased to $1000.00 for the next year, and further that an additional appropriation of $200.00 be made for the services of an assistant to the librarian, and that the library be kept open at night until such hour as the faculty may direct, the said assistant to be appointed for the next year by the Chairman of the faculty with the advice and consent of the librarian.

Resolved that the action of the Miller Board in the appropriation of Three Hundred Dollars for an additional scholarship for the ensuing year, in accordance with the resolution of the Faculty which this Board has approved and the nomination of Mr. Peyton H. Bragg to fill said scholarship, be and the same is hereby approved by this Board.

The report of H. H. Downing and others, Committee appointed at the last November meeting to consider the propriety of permitting the Charlottesville City & Suburban Street Railway Co. to enter the grounds of the University, filed their report adverse to such privilege being granted, which report was adopted and ordered to be filed

"To the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Va.

Your Committee appointed at the November, 1900, meeting of the Board to consider the application of the Charlottesville City and Suburban Street Railway Co. for permission to enter the University grounds, begs leave to report that, since your Committee was appointed, considerable opposition has developed to the application of the said Street Railway Co., both by the Faculty and the student body of the University, and your Committee deems it inexpedient to allow said Street Railway Co. any other or further rights in the grounds of the University than those now enjoyed.

In response to your request for a statement of my views regarding the essentials of agricultural education, I would respectfully submit the following

Agriculture, as I understand it, is primarily the art of cultivating the soil with a view to profit: in its usual sense it includes the successful raising and marketing of crops alike of plants and of animals, or of their products.

Its theory is based upon the sciences of Chemistry, Botany, and Zoology, and its intelligent practice involves the application of their facts and principles, and those of other allied but less definitely fundamental sciences, such as Geology, Physics and Mechanics. Agricultural education demands, therefore, at the outset, instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to the art in question, and subsequently the discussion of its principles and processes as based upon them.

Instruction in these fundamental sciences in their relation to agriculture might properly include in the case of Chemistry not only the leading facts and laws of the science but also its methods and its technique, as applied alike to analysis and to synthesis: the chemical (and associated physical) structure of soils the composition of vegetable and animal substances and the chemical processes involved in the lives of plants and animals: the composition and intelligent compounding of fertilizers in relation to various crops of plants, and of food stuffs in their relation to stock-feeding: the composition and characteristics of vegetable and animal products in relation to their preservation and storage: and other subjects of a kindred nature.

In the case of Botany such instruction might properly include the discussion of the structure of the various types of plants, and their systematic classification as based thereon: the principles of vegetable physiology in general, and in particular the laws of nutrition, growth and multiplication, special attention being given on one hand to the higher groups from which the leading crop-plants are derived, and to the lower groups which compose the greater number of forms injurious to the plants and animals in which the agriculturist is interested; in connection with the former might be pursued the study of the origin, history and modes of production of cultivated varieties, and with the latter the study of the diseases and parasites of crop-plants which form in a number of cases the most serious obstacle to crop-raising, as well as the relation of the organisms in question to the infectious diseases of live-stock with other allied topics. In the case of Zoology such instruction would include a similar consideration of the fundamental facts and laws of animal life, the structure and classification of animals, and the study of their vital processes, especially of the anatomy and physiology of the highest types of animals, which includes nearly all the species involved in stock-farming: the habits and life-histories of insects, particularly those that are either injurious or bebficial: the nature and treatment of external and internal animal parasites: and the like.

A discussion of the general theory or principles of Agriculture based upon such fundamental knowledge of the most important sciences as is indicated above may properly include the consideration of soils as regards their composition, situation and exposure: the methods of reclaiming waste lands: the principles of drainage; tillage and the management of crops in such manner as to obtain profitable returns without diminution of fertility the choice and rotation of crops; the principles of husbandry, as applied to the storage and care of crop-products and food supplies: the housing and care of stock the hygiene of the farm, and the best methods of protection against the insect pests and fungous or bacterial plagues to which staple crops are subject: the specific care and culture of particular crops the methods and value of intensive farming the conduct and significance of agricul- tural experimentation: and many other similar subjects.

This discussion may perhaps be summarized as follows:

Agricultural Education involves the study of

A.—The sciences upon which the art of crop-raising is directly based, namely,

Chemistry, including

General Chemistry as a science;

Chemistry as related to agriculture.

Botany, including

Botany as a science;

Botany as related to agriculture.

Zoology, including

Zoology as a science;

Zoology as related to agriculture.

B.—The Principles of Agriculture as based upon these sciences, and the rationale and economics of the various processes involved.

Itemized estimate of expenditures.
----------------------------------

Estimated Receipts

from State Annuity

$50,000.00

from Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

from Miller Fund

6,300.00

from Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

from Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

from Madison Library

156.00

from Gordon Library

300.00

from Byrd Library

$390 00

360.00

from Mason Fellowship

210.00

from Brown Scholarship

120.00

from Birely Scholarship

220.00

from Rents of 2 hotels

540.00

from Rents of 2 mess-halls

360.00

from Rents of "Temperance Hall,"

544 00

463.00

from Rents of Infirmary

450.00

from Rents of Cottage

48.00

from Rents of Alumni Hall,

420 00

400.00

from Rents of blacksmith shop

36.00

from Interest on sinking fund

1,786 00

2,067.00

from Steam heating from students & profs.

750.00

from Electric light furnished

2,600.00

from rent from Randall Building

2,825.00.

from Students' payments (under all heads) 700 at $110.oo

77,000.00

Total estimated receipts

$158,660.00.

Estimated Expenditures:

to salaries of Instructors

$74,600.00

to salaries of Officers

6,050.00

to fellowships and scholarships

5,450.00

to interest and sinking fund

21,287.00

to wages of employees

7,692.00

to working expenses

17,320.00

to miscellaneous

25,650.00

$158,249.00

Salaries of Instructors:

23 professors $3,000.00

$69,000.00

1 instructor in Latin

800.00

1 instructor in Physics

800.00

1 instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 demonstrator of Pathology and Biology

800.00

1 director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

Chairman

1,000.00

Proctor & Supt. of Grounds and Bldgs.

2,000.00

Secretary of Visitors

300.00

Secretary of Faculty

800.00

Secretary of Proctor

800.00

Librarian

800.00

Assistant Librarian

200.00

Commissioner of Accounts

150.00

6,050.00

Fellowships and Scholarships:

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowships

1,050.00

2 Biological Fellowship

600.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

(1) 3 Miller Fellowships

300 00

900.00

6 State (Public School) scholarships

1,200.00

1 Board of Visitors scholarships

250.00

5,450.00

5,700.00

Interest and Sinking Fund:

Interest on old debt

5,170.00

Interest on new debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund (for re-investment)

2,067.00

Sinking fund,- old debt

2,050.00

Sinking fund,- new debt

2,000.00

$21,287.00

Wages of Employees

University artisan

$900.00

Engineer and Fireman

630.00

Day policeman and boss of hands

480.00

Night policeman

360.00

Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

Janitor of Museum

180.00

Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitors of new buildings

450.00

3 Janitors of Randall buildings

270 00

405.00

Chairman's Messenger

120.00

Laborer's (3 hands, 3 teamsters)

1,080.00

18 Dormitory servants

1,944.00

$7,692.00

Working Expenses:

Library (Madison, Gordon & Byrd Funds)

816.00

Library Special.

544.00

Astronomical Observatory

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

200.00

Biological Department

350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical (provided for by per capita chgs.)

Law Department (special)

500.00

Law Department

500.00

Infirmary

1,600.00

Hospital

2,050.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel, (for heat and electric light), except gas,

3,000.00

Gas

500.00

Maintenance of reservoir and pipe-line of water supply,

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed blanks,

200,00

Catalogues, Alumni Bulletin; and postage,

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$17,320.00

Miscellaneous:

$1,765.50

Estimated deficit on income of session 1901-02

2,500.00

Insurance

1 740 00

1,800.00

Repairs

5,000.00

Commutation of rents (11 professors)

3,300.00

Entertainment of University Alumni

150.00

Contingent fund

1,750.00

Final payment on Hospital construction

5,500.00

Architect's fees on Hospital construction

750.00

Heating for Hospital

2,800.00

Heating West Lawn

1,300.00

Fire Pump

500.00

Water Tank, Carr's Hill,

500.00

$25,850.00

June 11,- 1901, the Board met pursuant to adjournment of yesterday.

Present: The Rector, Mr. C. P. Jones, and Messrs. Harmon, Miles, Downing, and Moore.

The following was enacted:-

Resolved that Mr. Miles be appointed a Committee on the Austin bequest to ascertain and report what further arrangements should be made relative to it. The Proctor shall pay such expenses as Mr. Miles may find it necessary to incur.

Resolved that Mr. Harmon and Col. Carter be appointed a Committee to consider Mr. Wills' proposition to occupy a lot on the University grounds for the erection of a drug store, and to make such a contract with Mr. Wills as they may think best, the same to be expressed in a proper, written instrument.

The attention of the faculty is called to the fact that the Board has been generous in the appropriations for the session 1901-02. In order to meet these appropriations it will be necessary for us to have 700 students. This cannot be accomplished without the zealous and earnest efforts of the members of the faculty during the coming vacation, and we confidently expect that they will not fail to bring about this result. The Secretary is requested to communicate a copy of this resolution to the Chairman of the faculty at once.

In as much as Mr. Bradley Walker accepted a Board of Visitors Scholarship last year with the expectation that the same should be continued, and as he has been an excellent student, be it resolved that the said scholarship is continued in his favor for the next session.

The following is an estimate of the receipts for the year 1901-1902.

Out of the income of the University for the year 19011902, the following appropriations are made:

Estimated Deficit - - - -

Note:—

Instead of a deficit, the season now closing would have shown a handsome surplus—about $14,000.00—if there had not been large expenditures ordered during the session—$10,900.00 for Hospital construction, about $765.00 for extra Infirmary expenses caused by cases of typhoid fever and smallpox, nearly $1,250.00 for installation of electric lights, and about $1,200.00 for legal counsel, suits, etc. Even with all this extra expenditure, the accounts of the session would pretty nearly balance if all sums due from students could be collected. On May 24th, there remained due and uncollected from this source $3,073.70; it is estimated that about $600.00 will be paid between that date and the end of the session, leaving an estimated deficit as above stated.

On motion the Board adjourned.
