---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1906'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1906) January 30, 1906
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 30, 1906

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors held on above date,

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Downing, Glass, Wallace, White, Buchanan, and Harmon,- the following was adopted:-

Whereas, it is made the duty of this Board by the Constitution of Virginia to nominate some member of the faculty of the University of Virginia to the Senate as one of the list of eligibles to be elected as members of the Board of Education, and,

Whereas, by a resolution of the Senate agreed to the 24th day of January, 1906, the request is made that this Board, or its nominee, shall state the purpose of such nominee, if elected, as to the substitution as soon as practicable of a single list of school books in the place of the multiple list of such books now prescribed for use in the public free schools of the counties of the Commonwealth; on motion, it is hereby resolved, that Doctor Charles W. Kent is hereby nominated to the Senate for its consideration as a member of the Board of Education;

Resolved further, that this Board respectfully represents to the Senate that it is advised that Dr. Kent will transmit to their honorable Body, his views on the question of a single list of books in the place of that now in force. Resolved further, that a copy of this resolution be forthwith forwarded by the Secretary of this Board to the President of the Senate. On motion, the Board adjourned.
