---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1907'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Completion of Physiological Laboratory Equipment —

$1,000.00

Equipment of Surgical Laboratory —

$ 150.00

Salary of Professor of Diseases of Eye, Ear, &c. —

$ 500.00

I.

II.

III.

Languages.

Mathematical Sciences.

Natural Sciences.

Latin 1 and 2.

Mathematics 2.

Chemistry 1.

Greek 2 and 3.

Mechanics 1.

Physics 1.

(2) French 2.

(1) Astonomy 1.

(2) Biology 1.

German 2.

Electricity and

Geology 1.

Spanish 2.

Magnetism.

English 1 (Anglo-Saxon).

IV.

V.

History, Literature and Economics.

Philosophical Sciences.

History 1,

Logic,

(1) Economics 1,

(1) Psychology.

English Literature 2 or 3.

Ethics.

Education.

The Board of Visitors met in annual session in the President's Office, University of Virginia, on above date,

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Harmon, White, Buchanan, Craddock, Norton, and Flood.

The Board was called to order at 10:30 A. M., by the Rector, and the following adopted:

The M. A. Degree shall be conferred upon the holder of a satisfactory bachelor of arts degree who completes the work in four fully organized graduate courses, of which at least three must be cognate. The four courses shall be chosen from at least three distinct subjects distributed among three different schools, except by special order of the Academic Faculty; and at least two of the four courses must be taken in the year when the degree is conferred, if the preliminary baccalaureate degree is taken at this University. Moreover, when such candidate has received his baccalaureate degree from another institution, he must take not only the four graduate courses above mentioned, but also the precedent undergraduate courses in the same subjects unless excused from any such course by the Academic Faculty, upon the concurrent recommendation of the professor and of the Committee on Academic Degrees; such recommendation to be based upon a written communication signed by the President of the institution at which the candidate received his baccalaureate degree, and stating the text-books used by the candidate, the amount of collateral reading, laboratory work, etc., done by him, and the grades which he attained in each of the subjects in which he desires to be excused from doing undergraduate work at this University.

This resolution may apply to the present session.

The petition of Mr. Otis B. Sears, for additional compensation on account of special work as Instructor in the School of Greek, was granted.

Resolved: That a committee of five be appointed, consisting of three members of the Visitors, and the President of the University, and the Dean of the Department of Law, to consider the question of the expansion of the Department of Law.

Resolved: That Messrs. Flood, Norton, and Harmon be, and are hereby appointed to serve on this Committee, on behalf of the Board.

Resolved: That the President be authorized to appoint from the present Law Faculty, a Dean of the Department to serve during the absence of Prof. W. M. Lile.

Resolved: That Professor Raleigh C. Minor be, and he is hereby appointed Dean of the Law Department to serve during the absence of Prof. W. M. Lile.

Resolved: That the following appropriations be made,-

Resolved: That Dr. H. S. Hedges be appointed Professor of Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat, for one year, beginning September 12th, 1907—at a salary of $500.00

Resolved: That the central heating plant be operated from October 18th until May 5th of each year.

Resolved: That the terms or rates for heating for the above season be fixed at $20.00 per 100 square feet of radiation, and that all radiation connected shall be reckoned as used in service.

Resolved: That the sum of $900.00 be appropriated for the purpose of heating the Old Infirmary, and that the rent for said building be increased from the sum of $466.00 to $600.00 per annum. That the occupants furnish coal, and operate the heating system.

Resolved: That $3,100.00 be appropriated for the purpose of installing steam heat in East Range.

Resolved: That beginning with 1908-'9 the sum of $700.00 be appropriated for the services of an electrician.

The resignation of Dr. Barringer was presented by the President, and the following adopted,-

The Board of Visitors in accepting the resignation of Doctor Paul B. Barringer as Professor of Physiology and Therapeutics, directs that the correspondence between Dr. Barringer and the President of the University, be spread upon the minutes; and further records its regret that he has severed his relation with the University

During the seventeen years of his service, he has illustrated not only his eminence in his particular school or department of learning; but has by his contribution to the general literature of the subjects taught by him, added to the value and prominence of the Medical School of the University; and by his unvarying zeal and loyalty to the University, both as Professor and Chairman of the Faculty, he has done much to promote its welfare.

In his new field of labor, it is the sincere hope of the Board that Dr. Barringer will find his work congenial; and it confidently predicts for the Institution over which he will preside, a new era of prosperity.

Resolved, further,- That a copy of this resolution be transmitted to Dr. Barringer.

The correspondence follows -

I enclose herewith, for transmission to the Rector and Board of Visitors, at their coming meeting, my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics in the University of Virginia.

In asking of you this service, I wish to express to you again my sense of personal obligation for the many kindnesses and courtesies shown to me at all times during the period of my service with you.

After seventeen years of unbroken service in the University of Virginia, I now tender to you my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics, to take effect at the end of this session. My reasons for this step are that I have been offered, and have accepted, the Presidency of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, at Blacksburg, Virginia.

It is unnecessary for me to say to this Board, that this act on my part is due to no change in my love and affection for this old institution, my Alma Mater, but is the result of a combination of circumstances, over which I have little control.

The call to a broader field of service, for which I felt myself fitted, the opportunity presented for harmonizing conflicting forces, and above all the necessity of making better provision for those dependent upon me, left me little choice.

In thus taking leave of this governing body, with many of whose members I have been so long associated, I wish to put upon record my appreciation of their unfailing sympathy and forbearance during times, when I at least, have felt to the full my shortcomings and seeming unfitness for the duties called for.

I beg to acknowledge with profound regret the receipt of your communication to the Board of Visitors, tendering your resignation as Professor of Physiology and Therapeutics at this University, to take effect at the end of the session. I shall transmit this communication to the Visitors of the University to be acted upon by them at their approaching meeting, on June 10th.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you feel it to be your duty to sever your connection with the University of Virginia. For seventeen years you have served this Institution with devotion and distinction. For seven years of that period you bore its executive burdens, and evidences of your foresight and wisdom abound on every hand. You will permit me to say that during my Presidency I have gained much from your counsel and wisdom, and shall sorely miss your helpfulness. While regretting profoundly the loss of your services to this University, I congratulate you and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and the State of Virginia upon your accession to the Presidency of that great Institution. In a large sense all of the educational institutions of the Commonwealth are one in achievement and purpose, and I shall count it a pleasure to work with you in your new office in the educational service of the Commonwealth,

Resolved: That the B. A. Degree be conferred upon any student who, after satisfying the entrance requirements, completes (unless admitted to advanced standing) the work in

(1) English Literature 1 and Mathematics 1;

(2) Two subjects, (one of which must be Latin) from the first of the groups given below, one from the second, two from the third, one from the fourth, and one from the fifth;

(3) A varying number of electives-at-large, viz., three, in case one ancient language is included; and two, in case both ancient languages are included. These electives-at-large may be either B. A. Courses, or M. A. courses in subjects of which the precedent B. A. Courses have been completed, and may be chosen from the above mentioned Groups, or from the following miscellaneous list of courses, viz., Biology 2, Biology 3, Analytical Chemistry 1, Education 2, Journalism, and Biblical History and Literature.

It is provided, however, that any candidate may be excused from as many as three of the electives-at-large, if in lieu thereof, he takes the First-year Law course, the First-year Medical course, or any three technical courses in Engineering

It is also recommended that every First-year College student who contemplates the possibility of taking the B. A. Degree shall be required (unless admitted to advanced standing) to take English Literature 1, Mathematics 1, Latin 1, or some other Foreign language, and one course in the third group, or Greek. Students fulfilling this requirement shall be registered in the catalogue under the general head of "The College." and under the sub-head "Candidates for the B. A. Degree"; while all college students declining to take this prescribed course shall be registered under the sub-head "Not Candidates for the B. A. Degree." Students admitted to the University as "Special Students" (see catalogue p. 81) shall be separately registered as such in the catalogue.

The Groups mentioned above are as follows

The petition of the "Monticello Branch of the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities," regarding the serpentine walls was referred to a special committee consisting of the President, and Messrs. Harmon and Craddock, with instructions to investigate the matter, and make report to the Board at later meeting.

Mr. John W. Craddock, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the following statement of the Virginia Trust Company in the matter of the sale and re-investment of the $76,500.00 Bonds of the Leander McCormick Observatory Endowment, which was adopted as the report of the Finance Committee, and ordered placed on record.

\* \*The remainder of page 148 is on pages 239-240 of this book. \[See Pages 239-240 for the report referred to above.\]

The remainder of page 148 is on pages 239-240 of this book.

On motion the Board adjourned.

I enclose herewith, for transmission to the Rector and Board of Visitors, at their coming meeting, my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics in the University of Virginia.

In asking of you this service, I wish to express to you again my sense of personal obligation for the many kindnesses and courtesies shown to me at all times during the period of my service with you.

After seventeen years of unbroken service in the University of Virginia, I now tender to you my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics, to take effect at the end of this session. My reasons for this step are that I have been offered, and have accepted, the Presidency of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, at Blacksburg, Virginia.

It is unnecessary for me to say to this Board, that this act on my part is due to no change in my love and affection for this old institution, my Alma Mater, but is the result of a combination of circumstances, over which I have little control.

The call to a broader field of service, for which I felt myself fitted, the opportunity presented for harmonizing conflicting forces, and above all the necessity of making better provision for those dependent upon me, left me little choice.

In thus taking leave of this governing body, with many of whose members I have been so long associated, I wish to put upon record my appreciation of their unfailing sympathy and forbearance during times, when I at least, have felt to the full my shortcomings and seeming unfitness for the duties called for.

I beg to acknowledge with profound regret the receipt of your communication to the Board of Visitors, tendering your resignation as Professor of Physiology and Therapeutics at this University, to take effect at the end of the session. I shall transmit this communication to the Visitors of the University to be acted upon by them at their approaching meeting, on June 10th.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you feel it to be your duty to sever your connection with the University of Virginia. For seventeen years you have served this Institution with devotion and distinction. For seven years of that period you bore its executive burdens, and evidences of your foresight and wisdom abound on every hand. You will permit me to say that during my Presidency I have gained much from your counsel and wisdom, and shall sorely miss your helpfulness. While regretting profoundly the loss of your services to this University, I congratulate you and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and the State of Virginia upon your accession to the Presidency of that great Institution. In a large sense all of the educational institutions of the Commonwealth are one in achievement and purpose, and I shall count it a pleasure to work with you in your new office in the educational service of the Commonwealth,

1906

Oct. 15-

By Interest from May 1, 1906, to October 15,-1906, on $76,500.00 &commat; 5%-

$ 1,753.13

To check remitted to order of the University of Virginia.

$ 1,753.13

Dec. 21-

By certificate of Deposit,

$76,500.00

Interest

427.12

76,927.12

Dec. 24-

To $20,000 City of Roanoke 4's &commat; 97-

19,400.00

To $20,000 City of Roanoke 4-1/2's &commat; 104-1/2-

20,900.00

To $8,000 City of Roanoke 4-1/2's &commat; 103-

8,240.00

To Interest on above from July 1, 1906-

989.94

49,529.94

Dec. 26-

$11,000. A. C. Line Collateral Trust 4's &commat; 89 1/4 and 1/4 commissions-

9,845.00

1907-

Jan. 2-

By Interest on $28,000. City of Roanoke 4 1/2's-

630.00

By Interest on $20,000 City of Roanoke 4's-

400.00

1,030.00

Jan. 4-

To Cash paid draft of John B. Moon, Attorney,-

18,000.00

May 1-

By interest on $11,000 A. C. Line Trust 4's.

220.00

May 31-

To check endorsed payable to order of University of Virginia.

802.18

$79,930.25

$79,930.25

\[Statement of Virginia Trust Company, referred to on Page 238\]

University of Virginia,

Leander McCormick Observatory Endowment-

In Account with Virginia Trust Company.

I enclose herewith, for transmission to the Rector and Board of Visitors, at their coming meeting, my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics in the University of Virginia.

In asking of you this service, I wish to express to you again my sense of personal obligation for the many kindnesses and courtesies shown to me at all times during the period of my service with you.

After seventeen years of unbroken service in the University of Virginia, I now tender to you my resignation as professor of Physiology and Therapeutics, to take effect at the end of this session. My reasons for this step are that I have been offered, and have accepted, the Presidency of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, at Blacksburg, Virginia.

It is unnecessary for me to say to this Board, that this act on my part is due to no change in my love and affection for this old institution, my Alma Mater, but is the result of a combination of circumstances, over which I have little control.

The call to a broader field of service, for which I felt myself fitted, the opportunity presented for harmonizing conflicting forces, and above all the necessity of making better provision for those dependent upon me, left me little choice.

In thus taking leave of this governing body, with many of whose members I have been so long associated, I wish to put upon record my appreciation of their unfailing sympathy and forbearance during times, when I at least, have felt to the full my shortcomings and seeming unfitness for the duties called for.

I beg to acknowledge with profound regret the receipt of your communication to the Board of Visitors, tendering your resignation as Professor of Physiology and Therapeutics at this University, to take effect at the end of the session. I shall transmit this communication to the Visitors of the University to be acted upon by them at their approaching meeting, on June 10th.

It is difficult for me to tell you how sincerely I regret that you feel it to be your duty to sever your connection with the University of Virginia. For seventeen years you have served this Institution with devotion and distinction. For seven years of that period you bore its executive burdens, and evidences of your foresight and wisdom abound on every hand. You will permit me to say that during my Presidency I have gained much from your counsel and wisdom, and shall sorely miss your helpfulness. While regretting profoundly the loss of your services to this University, I congratulate you and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and the State of Virginia upon your accession to the Presidency of that great Institution. In a large sense all of the educational institutions of the Commonwealth are one in achievement and purpose, and I shall count it a pleasure to work with you in your new office in the educational service of the Commonwealth,
