---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1910'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Georgia Railway & Electric Co.,

1301-1304

1932

4,000

3029-3030

1932

2,000

3203

1932

1,000

4365-4367

1932

3,000

5

Detroit

4323-4332

1933

10,000

4

United Railway Co. of St. Louis

5208

1934

1,000

5612

1934

1,000

24,376-24,378

1934

3,000

Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Somersett Coal Company,

1113-1117

1932

5,000

5

Mexican Coal & Coke Company,

2163-2172

1926

10,000

6

American Tobacco Company,

31,039

1944

1,000

31,040-31,042

1944

3,000

36,339-36,343

1944

5,000

53,274

1944

1,000

6

Kings County Electric Light & Power Company,

349

1997

1,000

391

1997

1,000

634-638

1997

5,000

1759-1760

1997

2,000

5171

1997

1,000

5

Central Leather Company,

17,463-17,471

1925

9,000

17,766

1925

1,000

4

Rio Grande & Western R'y. Co.,

3181-3185

1949

5,000

5

U. S. Steel Corporation,

11,389

1963

1,000

12,611

1963

1,000

15,655

1963

1,000

15,656

1963

1,000

40,785-40,786

1963

2,000

77,210

1963

1,000

84,761

1963

1,000

103,871-103,872

1963

2,000

5

Virginia-Carolina Chemical Co.,

8851-8853

1923

3,000

8859-8860

1923

2,000

4 1/2

Imperial Japanese Government,

121,685-121,700

1925

£1,600

Number

Due

Amount

6 A. W. Mosby and H. E. Dewitt

Bond

1

1913

$10,000

Name.

No.

Due

Amount.

5

U. S. Steel

4144-4148

1951

5,000.

5

Campania Metalurgica Mexicana

450-460

1931

11,000

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, on May 6th, in the President's Office,

Present: The Rector, and Visitors White, Craddock, Harmon, and Shackelford, and President Alderman,

The Rector having called the Board to order, the following was adopted;-

Resolved: That the report of the Rector of the transfer of securities to the "Alumni Board of Trustees of the University Endowment Fund", under the resolution of the Board at its June meeting, 1909, be received, approved and recorded upon the minutes as follows:-

The undersigned respectfully reports that pursuant to the resolution of the Visitors at the June meeting, 1909, providing for the transfer to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, as in said resolution set forth, on March 30, 1910, after having had a previous meeting with Mr. Eppa Hunton, Jr., the Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees in Richmond, in order to arrange the various details for the proper transfer of those of said securities which were registered, the undersigned receipted to the Virginia Trust Company for the following named and described bonds, and turned the same over to said Hunton as Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund taking his receipts therefor in the words and figures following: viz.-

List of Securities held by the Virginia Trust Company for Account of the University of Virginia for the "Curry Memorial School of Education.

Richmond, Va., March 30, 1910.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

List of Securities held by the Virginia Trust Company for Account of the University of Virginia, for James C. Carter Bequest.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, the bond with all unmatured coupons thereto attached.

List of Securities held by the Virginia Trust Company for Account of the University of Virginia for the "Endowment Fund" being raised by President Alderman and General Alumni Association.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

The undersigned returns herewith to the Visitors the original receipts of said Hunton, Treasurer, to be filed and preserved by the Bursar; and respectfully requests that this Report may be received and spread upon the minutes of the Visitors.

Respectfully, (signed) Armistead C. Gordon, Rector of the University of Virginia.

Resolved: That James E. Routh, Jr. be elected Adjunct Professor in the Edgar Allen Poe School of English, for such portion of the year 1910-1911, as may be necessary, at a salary on the basis of $1,250 per annum.

Resolved: That Graham Edgar, Instructor in the Department of Chemistry, be promoted to the rank of Adjunct Professor in the same department, at a salary of $1,200.00

Resolved: That D. V. Guthrie, Instructor in the Department of Physics, be promoted to the rank of Adjunct Professor, at a salary of $1,200.00.

Resolved: That J. L. Newcomb, Associate Professor in the Department of Engineering, be promoted to the rank of Full Professor in that department, at a salary of $2,250.00

Resolved: That W. H. Faulkner, Associate Professor in the Department of Germanic Languages, be promoted to the rank of Full Professor in that department, at a salary of $2,500.00

Resolved: That the "Valentine Birely Scholarship" be awarded to Mr. William M. Storm, for session 1910-1911.

Resolved: That the office of Commissioner of Accounts be abolished after the 30th of June, 1910. This action is taken on account of the creation by the Legislature of a Bureau of Accountancy for State Institutions.

Resolved: That the additional sum of $50.00 be appropriated and paid to "The Debating and Oratorical Union," to assist in defraying the expenses of this organization for session 19091910.

Resolved: That the President and Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings with the assistance of such other members of the faculty as they may request to act with them are requested to investigate the whole question relative to the sewer system of the University, and make report to the next meeting of the Board with recommendations as to what changes, if any, should be made, together with an estimate of the costs thereof.

Resolved: That the petition of certain citizens of the University community with reference to re-opening the entrance to the University grounds from the street-car line, be referred to the Committee on Grounds & Buildings, and the President for consideration and future report to the Board.

Whereas, by deed dated November 13th., 1905, and recorded in the Clerk's Office of Albemarle County, Virginia, in Deed Book 131, p. 341, A. N. Peyton conveyed to D. Harmon and John S. White, Trustees, a certain lot of land, known as the Anderson property, at the University to secure equally and ratably the University of Virginia and the Trustees of the Miller Board in the sums of $3,400.00 and $3,300.00 respectively;

And, whereas, the said Peyton now desires a release of a portion on the lot in the rear of the Anderson house and beginning at a point on the western line of the said property about 210 feet from University Avenue, thence north 60 feet and with a depth of 113 feet, in order that he may effect another loan thereon for the sum of $      for the purpose of erecting a house thereon;

And, whereas, it appears that the University will have still a first lien with the Miller Board on a lot fronting 138 feet on University Avenue, and extending back on the west side about 210 feet and on the east side about 240 feet, and will have still a first lien on a small triangular lot in the rear of the lot proposed to be released, as well as a second lien on the lot released, which will be subordinate to the lien of $       hereinbefore mentioned;

And, whereas, by reason of improvements placed by the said Peyton on the lot upon which the first lien is still retained, it appears that the security for the said loans by the said University and the said Miller Board will be amply sufficient;

Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that John B. Moon, as Attorney for the said University of Virginia, be and is hereby authorized and empowered to make such release, or postponement, of the lien of the said University, jointly with the said Miller Board, on the said lot 60 feet by 113 feet in the rear of the said Anderson house, as may be needful in the premises.

Whereas, the Beta Iota Chapter of the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity request that they be assigned site "A" in the "Fraternity Court," instead of site "B", granted them by resolution of March 6th, 1910; and in submitting such request, they propose to erect ultimately a building to cost about $18,000.00, Therefore, be it

Resolved: That site "A" be substituted for site "B" and assigned to the said Fraternity, subject to the same conditions as required in resolution of March 6th, 1910.

Resolved: That the following petition of the Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity for a room on East Range, be granted;-

The Executive Committee of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa requests that, unless you yourself see some reason for not doing so, you will submit to the Board of Visitors, their request that the Chapter be granted the use of one of the rooms of the University, and would suggest as suitable for the purpose, the unoccupied room on East Range in the building in which Dr. B. W. Green now resides. We desire this room to keep in it the records, library, photographs, and other property of the Chapter, and for the use of the officers of the Chapter in the discharge of their duties.

Phi Beta Kappa exists solely to advance sound scholarship at the University. It is in no sense a private fraternity, and has no interest to serve except that of sound scholarship. We feel that it would be a graceful recognition of the disinterested work which our organization is endeavoring to do for the University, if the Board of Visitors would thus provide a home for the chapter in the University buildings. The income of the Chapter is small, being limited to the initiation fees of its members, and barely suffices to meet necessary expenses. Among these expenses, it is proper to recall, is that connected with one of the most important public celebrations of our Final Week, an expense which is borne by the Chapter, although the public exercises are strictly a University function.

If the University will give us the use of a room, the Chapter will undertake to furnish it suitably, keep it in repair, and meet all necessary expenses of heating, lighting, and the like.

It appearing to the Board that the sum of $22,565.00 will be needed to finish the Law Building and equip the same; and about $4,000.00 to make essential repairs on the buildings known as "Dawson's Row;" and it further appearing that the stock of the Norfolk National Bank, represented by certificate #2053 for 105 shares of the National Bank of Commerce of Norfolk, (represented by certificate #898 for 231 shares) being a part of the James Fund, Can be sold to advantage,

Resolved: That the Finance Committee shall sell the said stock, and that $26,500.00 of the proceeds of such sale, shall be used for the purposes above set out, with the understanding, and upon condition that the said sum shall be restored to the said James Fund, out of the first funds coming into the University, available for the purpose; and subject to the further condition, that one-half of the interest on $26,500.00 at the rate of 5%, shall be paid to the "Lee Camp Soldiers' Home," as provided by the will of the late E. W. James.

Whereas, at the last meeting of this Board, the following resolution was adopted;-

Resolved: That the Finance Committee of this Board be and is hereby authorized and requested to turn over to the Treasurer of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University Endowment Fund, the securities now in the custody of the Virginia Trust Company, and representing what was known as the "Alumni Hall Fund", arising from sundry payments by Alumni and Friends to the late Col. Thos. H. Carter, as temporary treasurer, amounting to $2,750.00 (as per statement filed herewith), and by him invested in 3% Virginia County Bonds in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

It is understood that, by re-investment of the interest from time to time, the fund is now $3,600. par value in Century Bonds.

And, whereas, it appears that the foregoing resolution was adopted by inadvertence, therefore be it

Resolved That the above resolution be rescinded, and that the Bursar be authorized and instructed to hold the said bonds as custodian for the Trustees of the "General Athletic Association", and "Alumni Hall Fund", and to pay the interest accrued and to accrue to W. A. Lambeth and R. T. W. Duke, Jr., the Trustees for said fund for re-investment.

The following correspondence and accompanying contract was directed to be placed on record:-

I enclose herewith a formal contract prepared by Messrs. Moon and Fife, relative to the removal of the track, &c., by the Street Car Company. It has been executed by the Company, and I have signed it as Chairman of the Executive Committee. When this Company began the work, I was under the impression that the Committee, composed of yourself, Dr. Lambeth, and myself, had power to act in the matter; but it seems that the power was vested in you gentlemen and the Executive Committee. I will be glad if you will have this paper properly executed at the meeting of the Board called for Saturday. I regret to say it will be impossible for me to attend the meeting, as I shall be out of town.

Messrs. E. A. Alderman, W. A. Lambeth, and D. Harmon,

Committee of Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

On the 10th day of April 1908, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted a resolution that the petition of the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company for change of the location of its line be referred to you gentlemen with authority to act.

The said Railway Company desires to make the following changes in the present location of its line through the grounds of the University of Virginia, namely:-

Remove the track further south to a point about half way between its present location and the County turn-pike, and also lower the grade and straighten said track from the C. & O. overhead Bridge to what is known as "Buffum's Crossing." And also to do away with the trestle south of the Electric Light Plant of the University of Virginia, and make a small fill in its place at or about the present location of the trestle.

These changes will necessitate the lowering of the present grades in some places and the raising of it in others, and will also necessitate the removal of two trees on the south of the present track, and near the East Range road.

Of course, if the University should at any time in the future, determine to open the East Range Road so as to connect with the County Turnpike, the said C. & A. Railway will change its tracks as to grades &c. to such an extent as may be necessary to conform with the grade that the University may determine upon.

The said Railway Company is very anxious to make these changes as soon as possible, as it is very important that the work should be done before the opening of the Spring season, and it trusts that your Committee will permit it to go ahead with the work as soon as possible.

Thanking you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter, I am,

I enclose herewith a paper from Mr. L. T. Hanckel, President of the Street Railway Company, making application for permission to change the location and grade of the street-car track as it passes over the lands of the University.

I had a talk a few days ago with Dr. Lambeth and understood him to approve of the general plan proposed by Mr. Hanckel. I likewise approve of it. If you should desire a conference of the committee, I will be glad to come up to the University any time within the next few days. In the meantime, I make the following suggestions:-

That the permission asked for be granted to the Street Car Company upon the condition that the location and grade of the road shall be approved by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that the banks of any cuts and fills made necessary by this work shall be put in grass by the Railway Company, and the sod be kept in proper condition and well trimmed by them, and that in granting the permission, all rights heretofore reserved by the University in reference to use of their lands by the Street Car Company, are to be applied to the changed location.

In order to preserve a complete record of the transaction, I think that the formal draft of the action of the committee should be accepted by the Street Car Company, so that the same can be recorded upon the minute books of the Board of Visitors.

I approve, with the conditions named in Mr. Harmon's letter.

(signed) W. A. Lambeth, Sup't.

Approved:

(signed) Edwin A. Alderman.

Whereas, it appears from a petition of the Charlottesville & Albemarle Railway Company, dated April 10, 1908, and filed with the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, as follows:

The undersigned respectfully requests your honorable body to permit it to change the location of its Street Car Line running through the premises of the University of Virginia. It is desired to change the location of its railway line from its present one to a point lying north of the trestle and south of the light and heating plant of the University of Virginia,- the new line to be located at such point and along such curves and grades as will be agreeable to and approved by your body.

It is respectfully requested that this matter may be referred by your body to your Committee on Grounds and Buildings, and the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, will full power to act in the premises.

In the opinion of the undersigned the desired change of location will in no way injure or impair the value or the appearance of the grounds of the University of Virginia; but on the contrary, will greatly add to it, by removing the present unsightly trestle, and also enabling the undersigned to locate a station nearer to "Cabell Hall" (if the same is desired) than the present one.

And, whereas, at a meeting of the said Board of Visitors of the said University of Virginia, held April 10, 1908, at which was present the Rector and a majority of the members, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved: That the petition of the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company, for a change of location of line, be referred to the Executive Committee, with authority to act: and that the President and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings act with said Executive Committee",

(signed) I. K. Moran, Secretary."

Now, Therefore,- In consideration of the premises, it is covenanted, stipulated and agreed by and between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, acting through Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, Daniel Harmon, H. D. Flood, George S. Shackelford, and John W. Craddock, Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Edwin A. Alderman, President, and W. A. Lambeth, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds of the said University of Virginia, hereinafter styled the Committee, party of the first part, and the Charlottesville & Albemarle Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Virginia, and hereinafter styled the Company, party of the second part, as follows:

1\. That the said Company shall have the right and privilege of changing and altering the present location of its said Street-Car Line through the premises of the said University of Virginia, said changes and alterations to extend and apply to the lowering of its present grades from a point on the present line of the said Company at the Overhead Bridge of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company to a point on its said present line, known as "Buffum's Crossing;"

2\. That the said Company shall have the privilege and right to remove and abandon use of a certain wooden trestle immediately south of the Electric Light Plant of the said University of Virginia, and to make and erect a fill or embankment, with proper and sufficient culverts for the outlet of water thereunder, to be used in its place and stead;

3\. That the said Company shall have the further right to build and construct a siding on said altered line at a point thereon known as the Old Infirmary of University Station, for its use in the better accomodation of the public attending public gatherings and functions at the said University of Virginia;

4\. That the banks or sides of any and all cuts and fills made necessary by the aforesaid changes on the line of the said Company, shall be put in grass or sodded at the expense of the said Company, and the grass and sod shall be kept well trimmed and in proper condition at the expense of the said Company.

5\. That all lowering or changing of grade or grades, all changes or alterations of track or tracks, any and all fills made and erected and any culvert constructed, and siding built, as heretofore stipulated, in short, any and all changes, alterations and variations whatever of the said present line of said Railway Company shall be made with the consent and subject to the acceptance and approval of the said Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the said University of Virginia, and the same shall be at the sole expense of of said Railway Company and without cost to the said Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia;

6\. That should the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia determine at any time in the future to open for use the road now extending through its said grounds along the front of East Range, so as to connect therewith the County Turnpike, then, and in that event, the said Company shall erect a proper crossing over its track or tracks, and a proper grade to the said East Range Road.

7\. It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the parties to this stipulation and agreement, that any and all rights of whatever nature and character heretofore and prior to this agreement reserved by the said University of Virginia in reference to the use of its said lands and property by the said Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company are to attach and apply to the changed location as hereinbefore proposed.

In Witness Whereof, the said Committee has hereunto affixed their signatures and seals, and the said Company has caused the signature of its corporate name to be made by the President of the said Corporation, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by its Secretary, this day of            1910.

(signed) Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, (Seal)

(signed) D. Harmon, (Seal)

Chairman Executive Committee.

(signed) (Seal)

(signed) George S. Shackelford, (Seal)

(signed) John W. Craddock, (Seal)

Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

(signed) President. (Seal)

(signed) W. A. Lambeth, (Seal)

Superintendent of Buildings & Grounds of the University of Virginia.

Charlottesville & Albemarle Railway Co.,

(signed) By L. T. Hanckel, President.

Attest:

(signed) Lew Wood, Secretary, Charlottesville & Albemarle Railway Company.

Resolved: That the following extract from the minutes of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, be entered upon the records of this Board, and that the appropriations therein suggested be agreed to and approved,-

"Resolved: That the statement entitled "University of Virginia Endowment Fund Budget" be adopted, recommended to the Board of Visitors, and recorded as a part of the minutes of this meeting, as follows:

\* \*Page 270 is interrupted by the beginning of page 271, \[See Pages 73 and 74 for the statement referred to above.\]

Page 270 is interrupted by the beginning of page 271,

Resolved: That the estimates of the Income and the appropriation of the same as recommended in the report of the President, be approved as follows:

\[The report referred to above begins on Page 75.\]

Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Georgia Railway & Electric Co.,

1301-1304

1932

4,000

3029-3030

1932

2,000

3203

1932

1,000

4365-4367

1932

3,000

5

Detroit

4323-4332

1933

10,000

4

United Railway Co. of St. Louis

5208

1934

1,000

5612

1934

1,000

24,376-24,378

1934

3,000

Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Somersett Coal Company,

1113-1117

1932

5,000

5

Mexican Coal & Coke Company,

2163-2172

1926

10,000

6

American Tobacco Company,

31,039

1944

1,000

31,040-31,042

1944

3,000

36,339-36,343

1944

5,000

53,274

1944

1,000

6

Kings County Electric Light & Power Company,

349

1997

1,000

391

1997

1,000

634-638

1997

5,000

1759-1760

1997

2,000

5171

1997

1,000

5

Central Leather Company,

17,463-17,471

1925

9,000

17,766

1925

1,000

4

Rio Grande & Western R'y. Co.,

3181-3185

1949

5,000

5

U. S. Steel Corporation,

11,389

1963

1,000

12,611

1963

1,000

15,655

1963

1,000

15,656

1963

1,000

40,785-40,786

1963

2,000

77,210

1963

1,000

84,761

1963

1,000

103,871-103,872

1963

2,000

5

Virginia-Carolina Chemical Co.,

8851-8853

1923

3,000

8859-8860

1923

2,000

4 1/2

Imperial Japanese Government,

121,685-121,700

1925

£1,600

The undersigned respectfully reports that pursuant to the resolution of the Visitors at the June meeting, 1909, providing for the transfer to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, as in said resolution set forth, on March 30, 1910, after having had a previous meeting with Mr. Eppa Hunton, Jr., the Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees in Richmond, in order to arrange the various details for the proper transfer of those of said securities which were registered, the undersigned receipted to the Virginia Trust Company for the following named and described bonds, and turned the same over to said Hunton as Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund taking his receipts therefor in the words and figures following: viz.-

List of Securities held by the Virginia Trust Company for Account of the University of Virginia for the "Curry Memorial School of Education.

Richmond, Va., March 30, 1910.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, the bond with all unmatured coupons thereto attached.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

The Executive Committee of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa requests that, unless you yourself see some reason for not doing so, you will submit to the Board of Visitors, their request that the Chapter be granted the use of one of the rooms of the University, and would suggest as suitable for the purpose, the unoccupied room on East Range in the building in which Dr. B. W. Green now resides. We desire this room to keep in it the records, library, photographs, and other property of the Chapter, and for the use of the officers of the Chapter in the discharge of their duties.

Phi Beta Kappa exists solely to advance sound scholarship at the University. It is in no sense a private fraternity, and has no interest to serve except that of sound scholarship. We feel that it would be a graceful recognition of the disinterested work which our organization is endeavoring to do for the University, if the Board of Visitors would thus provide a home for the chapter in the University buildings. The income of the Chapter is small, being limited to the initiation fees of its members, and barely suffices to meet necessary expenses. Among these expenses, it is proper to recall, is that connected with one of the most important public celebrations of our Final Week, an expense which is borne by the Chapter, although the public exercises are strictly a University function.

If the University will give us the use of a room, the Chapter will undertake to furnish it suitably, keep it in repair, and meet all necessary expenses of heating, lighting, and the like.

I enclose herewith a formal contract prepared by Messrs. Moon and Fife, relative to the removal of the track, &c., by the Street Car Company. It has been executed by the Company, and I have signed it as Chairman of the Executive Committee. When this Company began the work, I was under the impression that the Committee, composed of yourself, Dr. Lambeth, and myself, had power to act in the matter; but it seems that the power was vested in you gentlemen and the Executive Committee. I will be glad if you will have this paper properly executed at the meeting of the Board called for Saturday. I regret to say it will be impossible for me to attend the meeting, as I shall be out of town.

On the 10th day of April 1908, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted a resolution that the petition of the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company for change of the location of its line be referred to you gentlemen with authority to act.

The said Railway Company desires to make the following changes in the present location of its line through the grounds of the University of Virginia, namely:-

Remove the track further south to a point about half way between its present location and the County turn-pike, and also lower the grade and straighten said track from the C. & O. overhead Bridge to what is known as "Buffum's Crossing." And also to do away with the trestle south of the Electric Light Plant of the University of Virginia, and make a small fill in its place at or about the present location of the trestle.

These changes will necessitate the lowering of the present grades in some places and the raising of it in others, and will also necessitate the removal of two trees on the south of the present track, and near the East Range road.

Of course, if the University should at any time in the future, determine to open the East Range Road so as to connect with the County Turnpike, the said C. & A. Railway will change its tracks as to grades &c. to such an extent as may be necessary to conform with the grade that the University may determine upon.

The said Railway Company is very anxious to make these changes as soon as possible, as it is very important that the work should be done before the opening of the Spring season, and it trusts that your Committee will permit it to go ahead with the work as soon as possible.

Thanking you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter, I am,

I enclose herewith a paper from Mr. L. T. Hanckel, President of the Street Railway Company, making application for permission to change the location and grade of the street-car track as it passes over the lands of the University.

I had a talk a few days ago with Dr. Lambeth and understood him to approve of the general plan proposed by Mr. Hanckel. I likewise approve of it. If you should desire a conference of the committee, I will be glad to come up to the University any time within the next few days. In the meantime, I make the following suggestions:-

That the permission asked for be granted to the Street Car Company upon the condition that the location and grade of the road shall be approved by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that the banks of any cuts and fills made necessary by this work shall be put in grass by the Railway Company, and the sod be kept in proper condition and well trimmed by them, and that in granting the permission, all rights heretofore reserved by the University in reference to use of their lands by the Street Car Company, are to be applied to the changed location.

In order to preserve a complete record of the transaction, I think that the formal draft of the action of the committee should be accepted by the Street Car Company, so that the same can be recorded upon the minute books of the Board of Visitors.

The undersigned respectfully requests your honorable body to permit it to change the location of its Street Car Line running through the premises of the University of Virginia. It is desired to change the location of its railway line from its present one to a point lying north of the trestle and south of the light and heating plant of the University of Virginia,- the new line to be located at such point and along such curves and grades as will be agreeable to and approved by your body.

It is respectfully requested that this matter may be referred by your body to your Committee on Grounds and Buildings, and the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, will full power to act in the premises.

In the opinion of the undersigned the desired change of location will in no way injure or impair the value or the appearance of the grounds of the University of Virginia; but on the contrary, will greatly add to it, by removing the present unsightly trestle, and also enabling the undersigned to locate a station nearer to "Cabell Hall" (if the same is desired) than the present one.

University of Virginia Endowment Fund Budget. For Session 1910-1911.
--------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Resources:

Estimated Income from Funds in hands of Eppa Hunton, Jr., Treasurer, from July 1, 1910 to July 1, 1911,

$46,949.00

II. Expenditures:

Edgar Allen Poe School of English,

$3,300.00

James Wilson School of Political Science & Economy,

3,300.00

James Madison School of Law,

3,300.00

James Monroe School of International Law,

3,300.00

Walter Reed School of Pathology,

3,000.00

Andrew Carnegie School of Engineering,

3,300.00

School of Chemistry,

3,300.00

President's Salary,

3,000.00

Salary of Secretary,

100.00

2 Instructors in Law,

1,500.00

Improvements in Buildings & Grounds,

2,000.00

Ezekiel Statue of Jefferson,

1,000.00

Maintenance of Gymnasium,

1,305.00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

1,100.00

Summer School,

1,400.00

Law Library,

2,000.00

General Library,

4,505.00

Landscape Architect,

250.00

Rives Fellowship,

250.00

Publications, Philosophical Society,

1,000.00

Installation of Modern Bookkeeping System,

1,000.00

Field Instruments in Engineering,

400.00

Heating East Range,

1,750.00

Extra Boiler, Heating & Lighting Plant,

1,200.00

46,560.00

$ 389.00

Financial Budget. University of Virginia, 1910-1911. Estimated Resources available for Current Expenses.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Annual State Appropriation,

$80,000.00

From Special State Appropriation, Hospital 1911 (4 mos.)

3,333.33

From Students' Loan Fund Appropriation,

800.00

84,133.33

From Alumni Board of Trustees, (Treasurer's estimate)

39,250.00

From Alumni Board of Trustees, Wm.C.Rives Fellowship, (est.)

250.00

From Alumni Board of Trustees, $126,000. from Va. Trust Co.,

6,349.00

From Barbour-Page Lecture Endowment Fund,

1,100.00

46,949.00

From John B. Cary Memorial Endowment Fund,

2,476.71

From Linden Kent Memorial Endowment,

3,048.00

From Miller Board Endowment,

6,000.00

From Corcoran Endowment,

6,000.00

From Vanderbilt Endowment,

4,100.00

From John W. Scott Memorial Endowment,

200.00

From Library Endowments,

948.00

From Fellowship Endowment, (John Y. Mason)

210.00

From Scholarship Endowments,

372.00

23,354.71

From Edward W. James Estate,

3,889.48

From Arthur W. Austin Estate,

8,000.00

From General Education Board,

3,000.00

14,889.48

From Interest on Bank Balances,

450.00

From Rents, from Residents on Grounds,

2,342.00

From Lights, from Residents on Grounds,

634.00

From Heat, from Residents on Grounds,

550.00

From Students, on deferred payments,

1,200.00

5,176.00

From Students, Fees, Tuitions & Rents, 800 &commat; $92.00 est.,

73,600.00

From Students, Registration & Special Exam. Fees., (est.)

400.00

74,000.00

Total Resources,

$248,502.52

Detailed Expenditures.

I. General Administration.

(a) Salaries:

Edwin A. Alderman, President,

$ 8,000.00

H. H. Thurlow, Secretary,

960.00

Howard Winston, Registrar,

1,000.00

Stenographer, Executive Offices,

900.00

Associate Editor of Bulletin,

Messenger, Executive Offices,

240.00

Forward,

$11,100.00

Brought forward,

$11,100 00

(b) Advertising,

2,500 00

Alumni Bulletin,

1,500 00

Annual Catalogue,

1,500 00

Contingent Fund,

3,500 00

Commencement Fund,

300 00

Entertainment Fund,

750 00

Diplomas,

200 00

Printing,

600 00

Janitor, Administration Building,

96 00

22,046 00

II. College and Graduate Departments.

1\. Latin:

Professor, Thomas Fitz-Hugh,

$ 3,000 00

Instructor, J. S. McLemore,

600 00

Instructor, A. V. Bishop,

400 00

Instructor, S. P. Cowardin, Jr.,

300 00

4,300 00

2\. Greek:

Professor, M. W. Humphreys,

$ 3,300 00

Instructor, J. S. McLemore

$300 00

400 00

3,700 00

3\. Edgar Allen Poe School of English:

Professor, C. Alphonso Smith,

$ 3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, James E. Routh, Jr

$1,250

1,000 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

200 00

4,500 00

4\. English Literature:

Professor, Charles W. Kent,

$ 3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, Charles W. Paul,

1,100 00

Instructor,

600 00

Instructor, W. T. Myers,

100 00

Assistant,

200 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

200 00

Special, for books, &c.

48 00

5,248 00

5\. Romance Languages:

Professor, Richard H. Wilson,

$ 3,300 00

Instructor, J. C. Bardin,

700 00

Instructor, S. M. Cleveland,

500 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,

200 00

4,700 00

6\. Mathematics:

Professor, James Morris Page,

$ 3,300 00

Professor, W. H. Echols,

3,000 00

Forward.

$ 6.300 00

44.494 00

Brought forward,

$ 6,300 00

44,494 00

Instructor, E. S. Smith,

300 00

Instructor, Angus Echols,

300 00

Instructor, R. E. Beard,

300 00

Instructor, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

90 00

J. Y. Mason Fellowship, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

210 00

7,500 00

7\. Astronomy:

Professor, Ormond Stone,

$ 3,000 00

Vanderbilt Fellowships:

(a) C. P. Olivier,

350 00

(b) C. M. Wunder,

350 00

(c) H. H. Gaver,

350 00

Observatory Appropriation,

405 00

4,455 00

8\. Physics:

Associate Professor, L. G. Hoxton,

$ 2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, D. V. Guthrie,

1,200 00

Instructor, W. N. Neff,

300 00

Instructor, S. H. Diggs,

300 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

800 00

Janitor Service,

180 00

4,780 00

9\. Chemistry:

Professor, J. H. Kastle,

$ 3,300 00

Professor, F. P. Dunnington,

3,300 00

Professor, R. M. Bird

2,500 00

Adjunct Professor, Graham Edgar

1,200 00

Instructor, D. P. Woodson

500 00

Instructor, A. R. Merz

500 00

Instructor, J. W. Watson

300 00

Assistant, Lester Patton

250 00

Laboratory Appropriation, All Dep'ts.

900 00

Janitor Service, (3 Laboratories)

630 00

13,380 00

10\. Biology:

Professor, A. H. Tuttle,

3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, W. A. Kepner,

1,500 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

450 00

4,950 00

11\. Geology:

Professor, W. M. Fontaine,

July 27500

3,300 00

Aug 27500

Professor, Thos. L. Watson,

2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, J. S. Grasty

1500—

600 00

Instructor, Stephen Taber,

450—

300 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

6,425 00

Forward

$ 85,984 00

Brought Forward

$ 85,984 00

12\. History:

Professor, R. H. Dabney,

$ 3,300 00

Instructor, W. W. Douglas,

300 00

Rives Fellowship, Jos. B. Ernest, Jr.

200 00

3,800 00

13\. Economics:

Professor, Thomas W. Page,

3,000 00

Instructor, T. E. Didlake,

300 00

3,300 00

14\. Philosophy:

Professor, Albert Lefevre,

3,300 00

Professor, Bruce R. Payne,

500 00

Instructor, Albert Balz,

450 00

Assistant, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

300 00

4,550 00

15\. Education:

Professor W. H. Heck,

2,500 00

Professor, Bruce R. Payne,

2,500 00

Travelling Expenses—Secondary Education

500 00

5,500 00

16\. Biblical History and Literature:

Professor, W. M. Forrest

2,476 71

17\. Germanic Languages:

Associate Professor, W. H. Faulkner,

2,500 00

18\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, James M. Page,

300 00

Scholarships:

(a) Miller,

250 00

(b) Miller,

250 00

(c) Miller,

250 00

(d) Thompson Brown, C. S. Grant,

90 00

(e) Valentine Birely, Wm. Storm,

210 00

(f) H. C. Cabell,

72 00

(g) State High Schools,

100 00

Janitor Service, Cabell Hall

180 00

1,702 00

III. Law Department

Salaries:

Professor, W. M. Lile,

$ 3,000 00

Professor, C. A. Graves,

3,000 00

Professor, R. C. Minor,

3,000 00

Professor, A. M. Dobie

2,500 00

Forward

11,500 00

109,812 71

Brought Forward

11,500 00

109,812 71

Instructor, S W otw

750 00

Instructor, W T ff Neff

750 00

Law Librarian,

300 00

Assistant Law Librarian C W Davis

200 00

Instructor in Pub. Speaking and Parl. Law, C. W. Paul

100 00

Library Appropriation,

1,500 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

15,350 00

IV. Medical Department:

1\. Anatomy:

Professor, R. H. Whitehead

3,300 00

Associate Professor, H.E. Jordan,

2,400 00

Instructor, J. Alex. Waddell

500 00

Assistant, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Anatomical Laboratory Appropriation,

750 00

Histological Laboratory Appropriation,

350 00

Anatomical Library and needs,

200 00

Janitor Service, Dissecting Hall,

300 00

7,800 00

2\. Physiology:

Professor, Theodore Hough,

$ 3,000 00

Instructor,

x x x

Assistant Instructor,

x x x

Assistant Instructor

S. S. 100 00

200 00

C T Po 100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

400 00

Janitor Service

250 00

3,850 00

3\. Bacteriology and Pathology:

Professor, H. T. Marshall

$ 3,000 00

Instructor, V W alli

1,000 00

Assistant, U S Woodbery Pathology

110 00

Assistant, W E Bray Pathology

100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

600 00

Janitor Service, Medical Hall

135 00

4,945 00

4\. Pharmacology, Materia Medica and Toxicology:

Professor, J. A. E. Eyster,

$ 3,000 00

Assistant, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

500 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

450 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

4,200 00

5\. Clinical Diagnosis:

Associate Professor, J. C. Flippin,

$ 2,500 00

Assistant,

100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

150 00

2,750 00

Forward

148,707 71

Brought Forward

148,707 71

6\. Practice of Medicine:

Professor, John Staige Davis,

3,300 00

7\. Surgery and Gynecology:

Professor, S. H. Watts,

$ 3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, H. V. Stone

1,750 00

Assistant, W. H. Goodwin,

200 00

4,950 00

8\. Obstetrics:

Professor, W. D. Macon,

1,000 00

9\. Diseases of Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat:

Professor, H. S. Hedges,

$ 250 00

Professor, R. F. Crompton,

250 00

500 00

10\. Hygiene:

Professor, W. A. Lambeth,

2,500 00

11\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, R. H. Whitehead,

250 00

Hospital,

8,000 00

Dispensary,

300 00

Dispensary Pharmacist,

100 00

Janitor Service, Dispensary

150 00

McCormick Scholarship,

140 00

Maintenance, Animal House

75 00

9,015 00

V. Engineering Department:

Professor, W. M. Thornton,

$ 3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, W. S. Rodman,

1,500 00

Associate Professor, J. L. Newcomb,

2,250 00

Adjunct Professor, Charles Hancock,

1,500 00

Instructor,

+600 00

Instructor, John M. Gallalee,

400 00

Instructor in Drawings, Chas. Hancock,

400 00

Assistant, H. B. Andrews,

200 00

Assistant, W. T. Tabb,

200 00

Assistant,

+200 00

Assistant, F. N. Lewis,

200 00

Appropriation, Mechanical Laboratory,

500 00

Janitor, Mechanical Laboratory,

240 00

11,190 00

VI. Summer School:

General Appropriation,

1,400 00

Forward

182,562 71

Brought Forward

182,562 71

VII. General Library:

Salaries:

Librarian, John S. Patton

$ 1,500 00

Assistant Librarian, Anna S. Tuttle,

800 00

Assistant, Mrs. Johnson,

200 00

Assistant, E. E. Washburn,

100 00

Assistant,

125 00

General Appropriation,

2,100 00

Income, from Endowment Funds,

946 00

Janitor Service,

300 00

6,073 00

VIII. Buildings and Grounds:

Superintendent, W. A. Lambeth,

750 00

Landscape Architect, W. H. Manning,

250 00

Foreman and Chief Mechanic, John Franks,

1,000 00

Electrician, B. F. Kirby,

700 00

Engineer (lighting plant) J. Golding,

660 00

Engineer (heating plant) H. M. Lee,

280 00

Fireman, William Malone,

210 00

Night Police and Watchman, R. W. Durrett,

420 00

Foreman of Grounds, L. W. Dudley,

540 00

8 Laborers on Grounds,

2,496 00

Janitor, General on Grounds and Buildings,

216 00

Janitor, Randall Building

180 00

Janitor, Randall Building

135 00

Janitor, Alumni Hall

27 00

10 Janitors, Student Dormitories,

1,620 00

Repairs,

5,000 00

Improvements,

2,000 00

Resevoir and Water Line,

230 00

Insurance and Renewals,

2,651 25

Fuel — Heat and Light,

6,000 00

Supplies, —Electrical,

500 00

Gas,

600 00

26,465 25

IX. Gymnasium:

Associate Director, H. H. Lannigan

300 00

Instructor, Phys. Culture, P M chter

200 00

Assistant, Phys. Culture, R R Dale

130 00

Equipment, heat and light,

450 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

1,305 00

Forward

216,405 96

Brought Forward

216,405 96

X. Miscellaneous:

President's House, Maintenance,

500 00

Dining Hall, Maintenance,

200 00

Dining Hall, Salary Ch'm. of Committee,

250 00

Madison Hall, Maintenance,

200 00

Debating and Oratorical Union,

100 00

Debater's Medal,

50 00

Stenographer to Deans and Superintendent,

500 00

Organist and Organ Repairs,

300 00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

1,100 00

Retiring Allowance, Noah Davis

Retiring Allowance, Henry Martin

300 00

Retiring Allowance, Humphrey Shelton

216 00

3,716 00

XI. Business Administration:

Bursar, I. K. Moran

1,750 00

Assistant, C. H. H. Thomas,

200 00

Assistant, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

150 00

Legal Counsel, John B. Moon,

1,000 00

Secretary, Board of Visitors,

100 00

Commisioner of Accounts, S. B. Woods

Interest on Debt,

8,000 00

Sinking Fund,

2,000 00

State Students' Loan Fund,

800 00

14,000 00

XII. Temporary General Appropriations:

1\. Installation of Modern Bookkeeping System,

1,000 00

2\. Heating East Range,

1,750 00

3\. Extra Boiler for Heating and Lighting Plant

1,200 00

4\. Philosophical Society Publications,

1,000 00

5\. Field Instruments in Engineering,

400 00

6\. Care of Massie Sewerage matter,

1,000 00

7\. Removing and Classifying Law Library,

250 00

8\. Apparatus in Economic Geology,

300 00

9\. Appropriation to Charlottesville Fire Department,

200 00

10\. Ezekiel Statue of Jefferson,

1,000 00

11\. Law Building Loan, $26,500 Int. at 5 per cent.

1,325 00

9,425 00

12\. Secretary of Alumni Board of Trustees,

100 00

9,525 00

243,646 96

Financial Budget — General Summary

Total Estimated Resources of University 1910-1911

$ 248,502 52

Summary of Expenditures:

I. General Administration,

$22,046 00

II. College and Graduate Departments

87,766 71

III. Law Departments,

15,350 00

IV. Medical Department,

44,810 00

V. Engineering Department,

11,190 00

VI. Summer School,

1,400 00

VII. General Library,

6,073 00

VIII. Buildings and Grounds,

26,465 25

IX. Gymnasium,

1,305 00

X. Miscellaneous,

3,716 00

XI. Business Administration,

14,000 00

XII. Temporary General Appropriation,

9,525 00

243,646 96

Balance

4,855 56

On motion, the Board adjourned.

I. K. Moran Secretary

Armistead C. Gordon Rector.

June 13th, 1910

The regular June meeting of the Board of Visitors called for this date, was not held, on account absence of a quorum.

Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Georgia Railway & Electric Co.,

1301-1304

1932

4,000

3029-3030

1932

2,000

3203

1932

1,000

4365-4367

1932

3,000

5

Detroit

4323-4332

1933

10,000

4

United Railway Co. of St. Louis

5208

1934

1,000

5612

1934

1,000

24,376-24,378

1934

3,000

Per Cent.

No.

Due.

Amount.

5

Somersett Coal Company,

1113-1117

1932

5,000

5

Mexican Coal & Coke Company,

2163-2172

1926

10,000

6

American Tobacco Company,

31,039

1944

1,000

31,040-31,042

1944

3,000

36,339-36,343

1944

5,000

53,274

1944

1,000

6

Kings County Electric Light & Power Company,

349

1997

1,000

391

1997

1,000

634-638

1997

5,000

1759-1760

1997

2,000

5171

1997

1,000

5

Central Leather Company,

17,463-17,471

1925

9,000

17,766

1925

1,000

4

Rio Grande & Western R'y. Co.,

3181-3185

1949

5,000

5

U. S. Steel Corporation,

11,389

1963

1,000

12,611

1963

1,000

15,655

1963

1,000

15,656

1963

1,000

40,785-40,786

1963

2,000

77,210

1963

1,000

84,761

1963

1,000

103,871-103,872

1963

2,000

5

Virginia-Carolina Chemical Co.,

8851-8853

1923

3,000

8859-8860

1923

2,000

4 1/2

Imperial Japanese Government,

121,685-121,700

1925

£1,600

The undersigned respectfully reports that pursuant to the resolution of the Visitors at the June meeting, 1909, providing for the transfer to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, as in said resolution set forth, on March 30, 1910, after having had a previous meeting with Mr. Eppa Hunton, Jr., the Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees in Richmond, in order to arrange the various details for the proper transfer of those of said securities which were registered, the undersigned receipted to the Virginia Trust Company for the following named and described bonds, and turned the same over to said Hunton as Treasurer of said Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund taking his receipts therefor in the words and figures following: viz.-

List of Securities held by the Virginia Trust Company for Account of the University of Virginia for the "Curry Memorial School of Education.

Richmond, Va., March 30, 1910.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, the bond with all unmatured coupons thereto attached.

Received of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, through the Honorable Armistead C. Gordon, Rector all of the above listed securities with all of the unmatured coupons thereto attached.

The Executive Committee of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa requests that, unless you yourself see some reason for not doing so, you will submit to the Board of Visitors, their request that the Chapter be granted the use of one of the rooms of the University, and would suggest as suitable for the purpose, the unoccupied room on East Range in the building in which Dr. B. W. Green now resides. We desire this room to keep in it the records, library, photographs, and other property of the Chapter, and for the use of the officers of the Chapter in the discharge of their duties.

Phi Beta Kappa exists solely to advance sound scholarship at the University. It is in no sense a private fraternity, and has no interest to serve except that of sound scholarship. We feel that it would be a graceful recognition of the disinterested work which our organization is endeavoring to do for the University, if the Board of Visitors would thus provide a home for the chapter in the University buildings. The income of the Chapter is small, being limited to the initiation fees of its members, and barely suffices to meet necessary expenses. Among these expenses, it is proper to recall, is that connected with one of the most important public celebrations of our Final Week, an expense which is borne by the Chapter, although the public exercises are strictly a University function.

If the University will give us the use of a room, the Chapter will undertake to furnish it suitably, keep it in repair, and meet all necessary expenses of heating, lighting, and the like.

I enclose herewith a formal contract prepared by Messrs. Moon and Fife, relative to the removal of the track, &c., by the Street Car Company. It has been executed by the Company, and I have signed it as Chairman of the Executive Committee. When this Company began the work, I was under the impression that the Committee, composed of yourself, Dr. Lambeth, and myself, had power to act in the matter; but it seems that the power was vested in you gentlemen and the Executive Committee. I will be glad if you will have this paper properly executed at the meeting of the Board called for Saturday. I regret to say it will be impossible for me to attend the meeting, as I shall be out of town.

On the 10th day of April 1908, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted a resolution that the petition of the Charlottesville and Albemarle Railway Company for change of the location of its line be referred to you gentlemen with authority to act.

The said Railway Company desires to make the following changes in the present location of its line through the grounds of the University of Virginia, namely:-

Remove the track further south to a point about half way between its present location and the County turn-pike, and also lower the grade and straighten said track from the C. & O. overhead Bridge to what is known as "Buffum's Crossing." And also to do away with the trestle south of the Electric Light Plant of the University of Virginia, and make a small fill in its place at or about the present location of the trestle.

These changes will necessitate the lowering of the present grades in some places and the raising of it in others, and will also necessitate the removal of two trees on the south of the present track, and near the East Range road.

Of course, if the University should at any time in the future, determine to open the East Range Road so as to connect with the County Turnpike, the said C. & A. Railway will change its tracks as to grades &c. to such an extent as may be necessary to conform with the grade that the University may determine upon.

The said Railway Company is very anxious to make these changes as soon as possible, as it is very important that the work should be done before the opening of the Spring season, and it trusts that your Committee will permit it to go ahead with the work as soon as possible.

Thanking you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter, I am,

I enclose herewith a paper from Mr. L. T. Hanckel, President of the Street Railway Company, making application for permission to change the location and grade of the street-car track as it passes over the lands of the University.

I had a talk a few days ago with Dr. Lambeth and understood him to approve of the general plan proposed by Mr. Hanckel. I likewise approve of it. If you should desire a conference of the committee, I will be glad to come up to the University any time within the next few days. In the meantime, I make the following suggestions:-

That the permission asked for be granted to the Street Car Company upon the condition that the location and grade of the road shall be approved by the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and that the banks of any cuts and fills made necessary by this work shall be put in grass by the Railway Company, and the sod be kept in proper condition and well trimmed by them, and that in granting the permission, all rights heretofore reserved by the University in reference to use of their lands by the Street Car Company, are to be applied to the changed location.

In order to preserve a complete record of the transaction, I think that the formal draft of the action of the committee should be accepted by the Street Car Company, so that the same can be recorded upon the minute books of the Board of Visitors.

The undersigned respectfully requests your honorable body to permit it to change the location of its Street Car Line running through the premises of the University of Virginia. It is desired to change the location of its railway line from its present one to a point lying north of the trestle and south of the light and heating plant of the University of Virginia,- the new line to be located at such point and along such curves and grades as will be agreeable to and approved by your body.

It is respectfully requested that this matter may be referred by your body to your Committee on Grounds and Buildings, and the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings of the University of Virginia, will full power to act in the premises.

In the opinion of the undersigned the desired change of location will in no way injure or impair the value or the appearance of the grounds of the University of Virginia; but on the contrary, will greatly add to it, by removing the present unsightly trestle, and also enabling the undersigned to locate a station nearer to "Cabell Hall" (if the same is desired) than the present one.
