---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1911'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Cr.

By payments for Law Building & Dawson's Row heating,

$29,500.00

By payments for Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity House,

11,000.00

By payments for Beta Iota Fraternity House,

9,250.67

By Interest on advance payments,

674.00

50,424.67

Balance principal uninvested,

6,695.33

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors on above dates in the office of the President, East Lawn,

Present: The Rector and Visitors, Harmon, White, Drewry, Norton, Shackelford, Flood, and Craddock.

The Rector having called the Board to order, the President stated that on June 20th, 1911, Professor Joseph H. Kastle tendered his resignation as Professor of Chemistry in the University of Virginia. His resignation was accepted by the President of the University. The correspondence follows:

I have the honor to inform you that I have accepted a position as research Chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station, and I herewith hand you my resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia, to take effect at the beginning of the next collegiate year.

I beg to assure you that I have been very happy in my work here, and that I shall take leave of the University and of my colleagues on the Faculty with feelings of sincere regret and goodwill.

Many elements have entered into my decision to make this change, not the least of which are the ties of strong friendships and old associations that have always been very dear to me, and the feeling also that it will ultimately be greatly to the advantage of my children. I greatly appreciate all that you have done to advance my interests and promote the welfare of the chemical department, and I beg to assure you of my high personal regard and esteem.

I beg to acknowledge with very profound and sincere regret your communication of the 19th, inst., tendering your resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia. I wish for you in your new position as research chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station every opportunity for the advancement of your chosen field of work. You have served this University, permit me to say, with ability and distinction during your brief period of work here. You have made friends of your colleagues and friends of your pupils, and all of us feel, no one more than myself, that in losing you we are sustaining a genuine loss both in the direction of scientific power and personality. I appreciate the motives that have moved you to this decision, and while I deeply regret that the result is your separation from the work here, I can only wish for you in this new field the abundant measure of success you have achieved here.

Resolved: That the action of the President with reference to the above matter, be, and the same is hereby ratified by this Board. And further, be it—

Resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University that Adjunct Professor Graham Edgar be assigned to the work of Professor Kastle at a salary of $1,700 for year 1911-12.

Resolved: That Mr. A. G. A. Balz be made Instructor in Psychology at a salary of $1,000 for the session 1911-1912.

Resolved: That Mr. Charles G. Maphis be made Professor of Secondary Education to succeed Professor Bruce R. Payne, at a salary of $2,500 per annum and an allowance for $500.00 for travelling expenses under the terms of the annual donation made by the General Education Board.

Resolved: That Miss Katherine Crenshaw Ricks be appointed First Assistant Librarian, vice Miss Anna S. Tuttle resigned, at a salary of $600.00 per annum.

Resolved: That appropriation of $133.00 be made to the Department of Anatomy.

Resolved: That the unexpended portion of the fund for the purchase of books, available to the Law Department for the year 1910-11, be available for their expenditure for the year 1911-12.

Whereas,—the Peabody Education Board has offered to the University of Virginia the sum of $40,000, for the erection of a suitable building for the home of this de- partment, provided that the University undertakes to maintain a department of education from which not less than $10,000 a year will be expended for maintenance and the President of the University has signified to the Peabody Board the purpose of the University to undertake such maintenance as soon as funds are available for that purpose; therefore, be it resolved , that the Rector and Visitors approve of this action of the President, accept the gift under the conditions named, and will seek to provide the necessary funds at as early a date as possible.

The correspondence follows:

The trustees of the Peabody Education Fund at a meeting held in New York on November 1, (1911) adopted the following:

"Voted, that to the University of Virginia, located at Charlottesville, Virginia and the University of Mississippi, located at University, Mississippi be granted each the sum of $40,000 to be used for erecting a building, to be called the George Peabody Building, for the school of education; this contribution to be made in each case on condition that the trustees of the University agree to contribute for the maintenance of the school of education at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000), annually; that each of these institutions be allowed one year within which to comply with this condition."

The University of Virginia will undertake to maintain a Department of Education upon which not less than $10,000.00 a year will be expended for maintenance per annum, provided the Peabody Education Fund will donate the sum of $40,000.00 to the Rector and Visitors of the University for the purpose of erecting a suitable building for the home of this department. The University already has in hand funds amounting to $7,000.00 a year that could be used legitimately for this purpose. It would be necessary for it, in order to carry out this proposition, to increase this amount by the sum of $3,000.00. This it hopes to be able to do in the next six months. It is, therefore, suggested that that amount of time, at least, be allowed the University of Virginia in which to meet the conditions of this proposition.

I am sure that as a result of our conference you will understand this need for delay.

The following resolution having been received by the Rector and Visitors from the Faculty of Law, "It is moved by President Alderman and unanimously adopted by the Law Faculty that the name "Minor Hall" be given to the building just occupied by the Department of Law, in honor of John B. Minor," it is resolved by the Rector and Visitors of the University that the name "Minor Hall" be given to the building erected by the generosity of the State for the Department of Law, in recognition of the distinguished service as a teacher by the late John B. Minor so long Professor of Law at this University.

Whereas, the Executive Committee of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, had its meeting on June 8, voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted institutions of the Foundation, be it

Resolved, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that they acknowledge this action of the Foundation with very great gratitude and appreciation, and accept the benefits of this Foundation in the belief that great good will result therefrom to the teachers of this institution and to the general cause of Education in this State. At as early a date as possible the Rector and Visitors will seek to establish such conditions for retirement of the members of the Faculty as shall seem to them for the best interests of the Institution and of the purposes of the Foundation. (correspondence between President Pritchett and President Alderman hereinafter appended.)

I have the honor to inform you that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8 voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

In taking this action the executive committee have been influenced not only by the scholarly work of the University in the past, and the eminence of its faculty, but also by the advance which the University has made in the last five years in the adoption and enforcement of its standards of admission and in particular by the work which has been done by the University in the development of the secondary schools of the state. The executive committee realizes that a state university should relate itself directly to the system of high schools of its State, and it believes that the leadership which the University has shown in these matters will result not only in greater educational efficiency to the whole system of schools in Virginia, but that it will likewise result in furnishing to the            University a far better prepared group of students.

The executive committee hopes that the relation between the University and the Foundation may be not simply formal, but one of friendly interchange of opinion in all educational matters. I am,

I beg to acknowledge with very great pleasure and satisfaction the receipt of your communication of June 9th, wherein you inform me that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8th, voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted Institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. I am gratified at this action of the Foundation, not solely because it secures against want the old age of men who have given their lives to an unlucrative but noble profession, but in a higher sense because such action signalizes the accomplishment by this University of a great undertaking which it set out to bring to pass nearly seven years ago. It now occupies a consistent and logical relation to the system of secondary education with which it is allied, and it has also concluded legislation by which it occupies consistent and logical relation in its graduate school, to the college and higher institutions. Such action of the Foundation is an added testimony to the fact that standards of admission established have been administered with integrity and good sense. I wish to express to the Foundation assurances of our belief that the Foundation has helped powerfully in enabling this University, and other Universities in this country to establish and maintain such standards as to unify the whole educational process. I too hope that the relations between the Foundation and the University may be one of material help and service in all educational development.

I shall have the honor to inform the Rector and Visitors of this University at their first meeting of the action taken by the Foundation, and they will further communicate to the Foundation an expression of their appreciation.

In connection with the foregoing, the following action of the General Assembly of Virginia, (session 1910) is made a part of this record.

Joint Resolution

Of the General Assembly of Virginia that the University of Virginia do accept and be embraced within the benefits of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Be it resolved by the senate of Virginia, the house of delegates concurring:

1\. Whereas the rector and visitors of the University of Virginia, at a meeting held at the University of Virginia on Monday, June fifteenth, one thousand nine hundred and eight, adopted the resolution following and the said action was approved by the governor of the Commonwealth as herein set out, to-wit:

Virginia appreciates the high purpose of Mr. Carnegie in establishing the Carnegie Foundation for the advancement of teaching. They perceive clearly its far-reaching and beneficent results in advancing the dignity of the teacher's office, in protecting the old age of unselfish public servants, and in increasing the efficiency and promoting the elevation of the standards of American colleges and universities.

They, therefore, desire that the University of Virginia shall participate in the benefits of the Foundation, and hereby make application for the admission of the University of Virginia into the rights and privileges of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Approved: September fifth, nineteen hundred and eight, Claude A. Swanson, Governor of Virginia.

That the General Assembly of Virginia approve the action of the rector and visitors of the University of Virginia and the governor of the commonwealth, as set out in section one, and the General Assembly of Virginia does consent that the University of Virginia accept the benefits of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

Resolved: That the whole question of unifying medical education in Virginia, with all the details involved, be referred to a committee consisting of the Rector, Dr. Alderman, Dr. Whitehead and Mr. Harmon, to investigate and report as soon as possible to a future meeting of this Board.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty of Medicine that the tuition fees in Medicine be fixed at $100.00 per year for the four years be approved.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors empower the President and Medical Faculty of the University to make such regulations as may seem to them wisest in the matter of the rapid increase of the first year medical class and the overtaxed facilities of the medical laboratories.

Whereas, no small number of the alumni of the University of Virginia have attained high distinction in letters, in science, and in public affairs, and are entitled to recognition for such achievement by their Alma Mater: and

Whereas, from its foundation this University has conferred no honorary degree, and has been unable to follow world wide academic usuage in thus decorating men so deserving of honours: therefore,

Resolved, that there should be and is hereby created in the university a Fellowship of Distinguished Service, to which shall be admitted those alumni of the University and others, who deserve recognition for distinguished service to society.

That the appointments to this Fellowship shall be by vote of the Rector and Board of Visitors upon nomination of the President and Faculty of the University and shall not exceed four in number during any academic year.

That admission to the Fellowship shall be by the President of the University on Graduation Day of the Finals of each Academic year receive from the hands of the President a suitably engraved medal of bronze.

That the appointee shall be entitled thereafter to append to his name the letters D. S. F. (Va.,) and to wear as the emblem of the fellowship, a ribbon in the University of Virginia colours (orange and blue).

The Rector and Visitors acknowledge with profound gratitude the gift of the following portraits presented to it during the past year. They are the portraits of men who have illustrated the best traditions of the University, or who have given of their lives and substance to its development.

Portrait of —

Edward W. James, Benefactor of the University, presented by the Visitors.

Alfred W. Austin, Benefactor of the University, presented by The Visitors,

Lewis Minor Coleman, scholar and teacher, soldier, and gentleman, professor in the University 1859-61— (presented by his son, Lewis M. Coleman, Jr.)

Basil Gildersleeve, scholar and teacher, by his students in the Greek Language and Literature, largely through the efforts of Mr. J. B. Green.

James Lindsay Gordon, Poet and orator, by his brother, the Rector of the University, Hon. Armistead C. Gordon.

Prof. Albert H. Tuttle, Scientist and Teacher, by his former students.

Resolved; That the correspondence between Messrs. Hunton, McGuire, Riley and Bryan, with reference to the "Isaac Cary Scholarship," be and the same is hereby referred to the Finance Committee.

Resolved, That a fraction of the contingent fee to be determined by the President and Bursar be not returned to students until after the close of the academic year.

Resolved: That the communication from Mr. Massie be referred to Hon. John B. Moon, attorney for the University.

Resolved, That the President is hereby authorized to select some suitable person to succeed Mr. Moran, Bursar of the University, when, and if the latter shall resign.

Resolved: That in future, beginning with the session of 1912-'13, the tuition fee for three or more courses in the College shall be $95.00 a session, which shall include all courses taken by undergraduate students, except the courses in Analytical Chemistry; but shall not include laboratory fees. For students who register for less than three undergraduate courses, the tuition fee for one undergraduate course shall be $50.00—for two undergraduate courses $75.00.

Resolved: That five scholarships carrying exemption from tuition and one-half of fees in the Academic Department be awarded to the five white high schools in the District of Columbia.

Resolved: That if any Alumni Chapter in good standing fails to nominate an incumbent for the Chapter Scholarship, before the first day of the session for which an incumbent might have been nominated, the President of the University shall be authorized to appoint an incumbent, otherwise qualified, for the Scholarship in question.

Visitor W. H. White having read a communication from Prof. Jas. M. Garnett, and addressed the Board in his behalf, the following was adopted as the sense of this Board:

Whereas, Professor James M. Garnett, formerly a professor in this University, is an applicant for the benefit of the "Carnegie Foundation,"

Resolved: That this Board would regard with gratification, favorable action on the part of the trustees of this fund, in his behalf.

Mr. John W. Craddock, Chairman of the Finance Committee submitted the following statement showing proceeds of the sale of the Norfolk National Bank stocks, sold through the "Virginia Trust Company," under authority given by this Board by resolution of May 6, 1910.

Virginia Trust Company,

In Account With E. W. James Estate.

To Proceeds Sale 346 shares Norfolk Bank Stock, as per statement, $57,120.00.

Mr. Craddock also reported to the Board, the sale (through Messrs. Loyall, Taylor and White of Norfolk) of the "Stump Haul Fishery" property in Princess Anne County, Va., for the sum of $40,000., as per authority under a resolution of the Board of Visitors, June 15th, 1908. The terms of the sale being $10,000 cash, and thirty notes of $1,000.00 each, executed by the purchasers, J. W. Hough, and Abner S. Pope, and maturing as indicated, in the statement following:-

We are forwarding to you today via Adams Express thirty notes of $1,000.00 each, made by J. W. Hough and Abner S. Pope, payable to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. All of these notes bear interest from Jan. 1, 1911 to Jan. 1, 1913, at the rate of three per cent per annum, and after that date, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The notes are as follows:

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1913

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1914

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1915

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1916

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1917

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1918

To each of the notes is attached the coupons evidencing the interest at the rates above mentioned.

We also enclose the Deed of Trust which secures these notes. The notes represent the deferred payments upon the purchase price of the Stump Haul Fishery, devised to the University of Virginia under the will of Edward W. James.

Upon the receipt of these notes from the Express Company, we will be glad if you will send us a receipt for the same.

The foregoing was adopted and ordered to be entered on record, with the Chairman's verbal statement as to disposition of the cash payment of $10,000. as follows:Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White to retain $2,000. for their services in connection with court proceedings, and commissions for making the sale; and the balance, (after paying the items of court fees, and costs, etc.) being invested for account of the James Estate, in securities, and held under the jurisdiction of the Norfolk Court, in pursuance of the decree of said court in authorizing the sale of the property; this being deemed proper on account of the residence there of the legatees under the will of Mr. James.

Resolved: That the Finance Committee be and are hereby authorized to invest in some good interest bearing securities, the balance of $6,695.33 now in the hands of the Virginia Trust Company, arising from the sale of the Norfolk National Bank Stock, Belonging to the James Estate; and also to invest the $1,000.00 now in the Jefferson National Bank, Charlottesville, belonging to the Mrs. Wm. B. Rogers Fund, donated to the Physical Laboratory.

At the suggestion of Mr. Craddock, Chairman of the Finance Committee, the Board considered the question of the purchase of an adding machine for the Bursar's Office, whereupon it was

Resolved: That the President and the Bursar be authorized to make such selection as they may deem wise, and to purchase the machine at a cost not exceeding $300.00.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept with sincere appreciation and gratitude, the gift of $12,500.00 to the University of Virginia by the Trustees of the Caroline Phelps Stokes Fund for the establishment of a Fellowship in Sociology for the study of the negro under the conditions set forth in the resolutions adopted by the Trustees of this Fund hereinafter appended. The Rector and Visitors desire again to express to the Trustees of the Caroline Phelps Stokes Fund their expression of genuine appreciation, and their belief that genuine good will come of the institution of this Fellowship.

In connection with the above, the following correspondence was directed to be inserted in this record:

I am very anxious to get your advice and co-Operation in connection with the expenditure of the income of the Phelps-Stokes Fund of which I am one of the Trustees. This Fund, which amounts to about a million dollars, was left by my Aunt, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes, with the understanding that the income should be used for various educational purposes, but more particularly for advancing the cause of negro education in the South. I have had several conferences with out mutual friend, Dr. Dillard, and I wish your specific opinion regarding the plan that we have had under favorable discussion for creating fellowships, endowed we will say at $10,000. each, at two or three representative state universities in the South, such as the University of Virginia, and the University of Georgia. The Fellowship to be awarded by the proper university authorities to graduate students whose time would be devoted to studies on some phase of the negro problem. The administration of the Fund, the selection of incumbents, etc., to be entirely in the hands of the University authorities.

I have long been deeply interested in the negro problem. I have never taken quite the typical New England attitude regarding it, but have felt that the most progressive citizens of the South, like yourself, Edgar Gardner Murphy and Dr. Dillard were the ones who were best qualified to aid in solving the problem. I am particularly interested in helping to secure a small group of trained men who shall give their lives to the study and improvement of negro conditions, and I feel that the best place for working out such a plan is in Southern state Universities that are entirely controlled by Southern men and where there will be no suspicion that Eastern or Northern men are trying to dominate the situation. Do you think that such fellowships would be of service in the cause proposed and do you think that the establishment of such an endowed foundation would be acceptable to the authorities of your University.

One difficulty has suggested itself to my mind on which I would like your opinion also. Would it be feasible for such fellows to conduct researches at present where there is no professor in an institution who gives instruction in the subject involved? If not, could lectureships or perhaps ultimately professorships be established for the purpose of giving instruction and facts regarding negro history, conditions, education, housing, moral improvement, etc.? It would seem to be a logical thing for a university in the midst of Southern states to provide its students with information regarding one of the most important factors in our civilization, unless conditions are such that any instruction would lead to so much controversy as to make it unwise. If instruction is unwise, are the research fellowships still entirely feasible?

This is a hastily dictated letter, but I think it raises the questions clearly and shows you my attitude, which is a desire to help the intelligent leaders of Southern public opinion to solve their own problems not by making suggestions from without but by providing means. I am taking the liberty of sending a copy of this letter to Chancellor Barrow at the University of Georgia and will await replies from both of you with the deepest interest.

I was greatly interested to have your letter of the 29th, ult., and have been giving the matter of your suggestion very grave thought. I have felt for many years that a fundamental thing to do in this tangled problem is to cause it to be scientifically approached by the scholarship of the South. The thing to do is to take it out of the nervous system of our people and their emotions and to get it set up before them as a great human problem, economic in nature, scientific in character, to be acted upon as the result of broad, wise, sympathetic study. The time ought to come when our best scholars will take pride in making contributions, however minute, toward the handling of the great question. I have no doubt that an endowed foundation of the character suggested by you would be most acceptable to the authorities of this University. I am a bit troubled about just the right suggestion to make to you in regard to your definite proposition for the creating of fellowships endowed at approximately $10,000, and having for their primary purpose the securing ultimately of a small group of trained men who shall giv their life to the study and improvement of the negro conditions. Let me explain a bit. I established here, at Tulane University, and at the University of North Carolina the first Professorship of Economics: Sociological subjects were not being taught in Southern institutions. Even Political Science, as a scientific subject, has no independent status. We now have a very strong department of Economics, and temporarily, a very able lecturer in Political Science. Our full Professor of Economics, as you may know, is on the Tariff Board, and his place is supplied by a veryable fellow from Wisconsin. We have two full professors in the Department of Education, and these departments make it a point to emphasize the sociological aspects of education. There is, however, no Professor of Sociology. It, of course, is as yet an undefined and somewhat empiric science, but there is a tremendous current of interest among our men in the big questions affecting social betterment, the improvement of rural life, the imporvement of industrial life, the better governing of cities, questions of public health and sanitation, and foremost among them, supreme in its importance, stands, of course, the negro problem with all of its implications. The ideal need here is a professorship in that great field, giving to the negro problem its right place as the chief subject of scientific study by our analytic minded scholars. This, of course, means a good deal of money. The next in order would be, it seems to me, a lectureship demanding much less money, but devoted almost exclusively to the study of the negro problem and the social betterment question, to giving information to the young men, to giving the proper bent to their minds, to stimulating their interest, to developing in them right methods of approach to such a subject. It seems to me such a lectureship logically precedes the establishment of a fellowship. Out of such lectureship and its activities would come such interest as to arouse young men inside or outside of the University to strive for a prize to be offered by us in the form of a fellowship or scholarship. W the sum you mentioned, $500.00 a year would be yielded as income. If $400.00 of this could be given to a man who would come here and make, say, a dozen lectures and meet men in semina ways; and then, if $100.00 could be made as a prize for the best bit of research work in small fields at first-I mean small as to area-the matter could get itself tried out, though on somewhat too meager a basis. I hesitate for a moment, though I hate to seem to hesitate a second in such a matter to establish an independent Fellowship in such a subject when there is back of it no clear instruction or stimulation in the great field which the Fellowship would cover. My fear about it is simply that the work itself would not get justice. The work would not yield its best results. You may be sure I want this opportunity here. Would it be possible to consider the proposition to increase the sume just a bit so as to make the Lectureship and the Fellowship co-existent? If such could be done it seems to me a new era would be brought about in our best institutions in their attitude toward this matter. Last year one of our professors gave a course of talks on the negro, based on Weatherford's book. It was astonishing the interest taken in the matter, the book being used as a text-book. I heartily wish I could talk with you about this matter, or with my friend, Dillard. Instruction in such a matter is not only not unwise, but most needed and would be welcome. I would never want to see such a fellowship established here, unless I saw fruitful results issuing out of it. I do not want it to become a mere academic thing that in time would lose its edge and become a mere formal prize. I hope you will not reach any definite conclusion in the matter until in some way we can talk it out, for it is a big question and incapable of just solution by interchange of letters.

Assuring you of my deep interest in the matter, and hoping that a way will open for us to discuss it personally, I am,

I have the honor to inform you that at a meeting of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund held at the office of Anson Phelps Stokes, 100 William St., New York City, Wednesday, November 15, 1911, the following vote was passed:

"Voted to direct the Treasurer, as soon as the condition of the treasury warrants it, to pay over the sum of $12,500 to the Treasurer of the University of Georgia and the same amount to the Treasurer of the University of Virginia for the establishment of Fellowships for the study of the negro on the terms of the following resolution:

"Whereas, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes in establishing the Phelps-Stokes Fund was especially solicitous to assist in improving the condition of the negro, and

"Whereas, it is the conviction of the Trustees that one of the best methods of forwarding this purpose, is to provide means to enable southern youth of broad sympathy to make a scientific study of the negro and of his adustment to American civilization,

"Resolved, that twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500) be given to the University of Virginia for the permanent endowment of a research fellowship, on the following conditions:

"1. The University shall appoint a Fellow in Sociology for the Study of the Negro. He shall pursue advanced studies under the direction of the departments of Sociology, Economics, Education or History, as may be determined in each case by the President. The Fellowship shall yield $500, and shall, after four years, be retricted to graduate students.

"2. Each fellow shall prepare a paper or thesis embodying the result of his investigations which shall be published by the University with assistance from the income of the fund, any surplus remaining being applicable to other objects incident to the main purpose of the Fellowship. A copy of these resolutions shall be incorporated in every publication issued under this foundation.

"3. The right to make all necessary regulations, not inconsistent with the spirit and letter of these resolutiens, is given to the President and Faculty."

Trusting that this endowment will be acceptable to the trustees of the University of Virginia and that it may be of some service in helping the South both in improving the condition of the negro and in helping to solve the difficult problem of race adjustment, I am,

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

I have the honor to inform you that I have accepted a position as research Chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station, and I herewith hand you my resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia, to take effect at the beginning of the next collegiate year.

I beg to assure you that I have been very happy in my work here, and that I shall take leave of the University and of my colleagues on the Faculty with feelings of sincere regret and goodwill.

Many elements have entered into my decision to make this change, not the least of which are the ties of strong friendships and old associations that have always been very dear to me, and the feeling also that it will ultimately be greatly to the advantage of my children. I greatly appreciate all that you have done to advance my interests and promote the welfare of the chemical department, and I beg to assure you of my high personal regard and esteem.

I beg to acknowledge with very profound and sincere regret your communication of the 19th, inst., tendering your resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia. I wish for you in your new position as research chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station every opportunity for the advancement of your chosen field of work. You have served this University, permit me to say, with ability and distinction during your brief period of work here. You have made friends of your colleagues and friends of your pupils, and all of us feel, no one more than myself, that in losing you we are sustaining a genuine loss both in the direction of scientific power and personality. I appreciate the motives that have moved you to this decision, and while I deeply regret that the result is your separation from the work here, I can only wish for you in this new field the abundant measure of success you have achieved here.

The trustees of the Peabody Education Fund at a meeting held in New York on November 1, (1911) adopted the following:

"Voted, that to the University of Virginia, located at Charlottesville, Virginia and the University of Mississippi, located at University, Mississippi be granted each the sum of $40,000 to be used for erecting a building, to be called the George Peabody Building, for the school of education; this contribution to be made in each case on condition that the trustees of the University agree to contribute for the maintenance of the school of education at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000), annually; that each of these institutions be allowed one year within which to comply with this condition."

The University of Virginia will undertake to maintain a Department of Education upon which not less than $10,000.00 a year will be expended for maintenance per annum, provided the Peabody Education Fund will donate the sum of $40,000.00 to the Rector and Visitors of the University for the purpose of erecting a suitable building for the home of this department. The University already has in hand funds amounting to $7,000.00 a year that could be used legitimately for this purpose. It would be necessary for it, in order to carry out this proposition, to increase this amount by the sum of $3,000.00. This it hopes to be able to do in the next six months. It is, therefore, suggested that that amount of time, at least, be allowed the University of Virginia in which to meet the conditions of this proposition.

I am sure that as a result of our conference you will understand this need for delay.

I have the honor to inform you that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8 voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

In taking this action the executive committee have been influenced not only by the scholarly work of the University in the past, and the eminence of its faculty, but also by the advance which the University has made in the last five years in the adoption and enforcement of its standards of admission and in particular by the work which has been done by the University in the development of the secondary schools of the state. The executive committee realizes that a state university should relate itself directly to the system of high schools of its State, and it believes that the leadership which the University has shown in these matters will result not only in greater educational efficiency to the whole system of schools in Virginia, but that it will likewise result in furnishing to the            University a far better prepared group of students.

The executive committee hopes that the relation between the University and the Foundation may be not simply formal, but one of friendly interchange of opinion in all educational matters. I am,

I beg to acknowledge with very great pleasure and satisfaction the receipt of your communication of June 9th, wherein you inform me that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8th, voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted Institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. I am gratified at this action of the Foundation, not solely because it secures against want the old age of men who have given their lives to an unlucrative but noble profession, but in a higher sense because such action signalizes the accomplishment by this University of a great undertaking which it set out to bring to pass nearly seven years ago. It now occupies a consistent and logical relation to the system of secondary education with which it is allied, and it has also concluded legislation by which it occupies consistent and logical relation in its graduate school, to the college and higher institutions. Such action of the Foundation is an added testimony to the fact that standards of admission established have been administered with integrity and good sense. I wish to express to the Foundation assurances of our belief that the Foundation has helped powerfully in enabling this University, and other Universities in this country to establish and maintain such standards as to unify the whole educational process. I too hope that the relations between the Foundation and the University may be one of material help and service in all educational development.

I shall have the honor to inform the Rector and Visitors of this University at their first meeting of the action taken by the Foundation, and they will further communicate to the Foundation an expression of their appreciation.

We are forwarding to you today via Adams Express thirty notes of $1,000.00 each, made by J. W. Hough and Abner S. Pope, payable to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. All of these notes bear interest from Jan. 1, 1911 to Jan. 1, 1913, at the rate of three per cent per annum, and after that date, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The notes are as follows:

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1913

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1914

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1915

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1916

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1917

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1918

To each of the notes is attached the coupons evidencing the interest at the rates above mentioned.

We also enclose the Deed of Trust which secures these notes. The notes represent the deferred payments upon the purchase price of the Stump Haul Fishery, devised to the University of Virginia under the will of Edward W. James.

Upon the receipt of these notes from the Express Company, we will be glad if you will send us a receipt for the same.

I am very anxious to get your advice and co-Operation in connection with the expenditure of the income of the Phelps-Stokes Fund of which I am one of the Trustees. This Fund, which amounts to about a million dollars, was left by my Aunt, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes, with the understanding that the income should be used for various educational purposes, but more particularly for advancing the cause of negro education in the South. I have had several conferences with out mutual friend, Dr. Dillard, and I wish your specific opinion regarding the plan that we have had under favorable discussion for creating fellowships, endowed we will say at $10,000. each, at two or three representative state universities in the South, such as the University of Virginia, and the University of Georgia. The Fellowship to be awarded by the proper university authorities to graduate students whose time would be devoted to studies on some phase of the negro problem. The administration of the Fund, the selection of incumbents, etc., to be entirely in the hands of the University authorities.

I have long been deeply interested in the negro problem. I have never taken quite the typical New England attitude regarding it, but have felt that the most progressive citizens of the South, like yourself, Edgar Gardner Murphy and Dr. Dillard were the ones who were best qualified to aid in solving the problem. I am particularly interested in helping to secure a small group of trained men who shall give their lives to the study and improvement of negro conditions, and I feel that the best place for working out such a plan is in Southern state Universities that are entirely controlled by Southern men and where there will be no suspicion that Eastern or Northern men are trying to dominate the situation. Do you think that such fellowships would be of service in the cause proposed and do you think that the establishment of such an endowed foundation would be acceptable to the authorities of your University.

One difficulty has suggested itself to my mind on which I would like your opinion also. Would it be feasible for such fellows to conduct researches at present where there is no professor in an institution who gives instruction in the subject involved? If not, could lectureships or perhaps ultimately professorships be established for the purpose of giving instruction and facts regarding negro history, conditions, education, housing, moral improvement, etc.? It would seem to be a logical thing for a university in the midst of Southern states to provide its students with information regarding one of the most important factors in our civilization, unless conditions are such that any instruction would lead to so much controversy as to make it unwise. If instruction is unwise, are the research fellowships still entirely feasible?

This is a hastily dictated letter, but I think it raises the questions clearly and shows you my attitude, which is a desire to help the intelligent leaders of Southern public opinion to solve their own problems not by making suggestions from without but by providing means. I am taking the liberty of sending a copy of this letter to Chancellor Barrow at the University of Georgia and will await replies from both of you with the deepest interest.

I was greatly interested to have your letter of the 29th, ult., and have been giving the matter of your suggestion very grave thought. I have felt for many years that a fundamental thing to do in this tangled problem is to cause it to be scientifically approached by the scholarship of the South. The thing to do is to take it out of the nervous system of our people and their emotions and to get it set up before them as a great human problem, economic in nature, scientific in character, to be acted upon as the result of broad, wise, sympathetic study. The time ought to come when our best scholars will take pride in making contributions, however minute, toward the handling of the great question. I have no doubt that an endowed foundation of the character suggested by you would be most acceptable to the authorities of this University. I am a bit troubled about just the right suggestion to make to you in regard to your definite proposition for the creating of fellowships endowed at approximately $10,000, and having for their primary purpose the securing ultimately of a small group of trained men who shall giv their life to the study and improvement of the negro conditions. Let me explain a bit. I established here, at Tulane University, and at the University of North Carolina the first Professorship of Economics: Sociological subjects were not being taught in Southern institutions. Even Political Science, as a scientific subject, has no independent status. We now have a very strong department of Economics, and temporarily, a very able lecturer in Political Science. Our full Professor of Economics, as you may know, is on the Tariff Board, and his place is supplied by a veryable fellow from Wisconsin. We have two full professors in the Department of Education, and these departments make it a point to emphasize the sociological aspects of education. There is, however, no Professor of Sociology. It, of course, is as yet an undefined and somewhat empiric science, but there is a tremendous current of interest among our men in the big questions affecting social betterment, the improvement of rural life, the imporvement of industrial life, the better governing of cities, questions of public health and sanitation, and foremost among them, supreme in its importance, stands, of course, the negro problem with all of its implications. The ideal need here is a professorship in that great field, giving to the negro problem its right place as the chief subject of scientific study by our analytic minded scholars. This, of course, means a good deal of money. The next in order would be, it seems to me, a lectureship demanding much less money, but devoted almost exclusively to the study of the negro problem and the social betterment question, to giving information to the young men, to giving the proper bent to their minds, to stimulating their interest, to developing in them right methods of approach to such a subject. It seems to me such a lectureship logically precedes the establishment of a fellowship. Out of such lectureship and its activities would come such interest as to arouse young men inside or outside of the University to strive for a prize to be offered by us in the form of a fellowship or scholarship. W the sum you mentioned, $500.00 a year would be yielded as income. If $400.00 of this could be given to a man who would come here and make, say, a dozen lectures and meet men in semina ways; and then, if $100.00 could be made as a prize for the best bit of research work in small fields at first-I mean small as to area-the matter could get itself tried out, though on somewhat too meager a basis. I hesitate for a moment, though I hate to seem to hesitate a second in such a matter to establish an independent Fellowship in such a subject when there is back of it no clear instruction or stimulation in the great field which the Fellowship would cover. My fear about it is simply that the work itself would not get justice. The work would not yield its best results. You may be sure I want this opportunity here. Would it be possible to consider the proposition to increase the sume just a bit so as to make the Lectureship and the Fellowship co-existent? If such could be done it seems to me a new era would be brought about in our best institutions in their attitude toward this matter. Last year one of our professors gave a course of talks on the negro, based on Weatherford's book. It was astonishing the interest taken in the matter, the book being used as a text-book. I heartily wish I could talk with you about this matter, or with my friend, Dillard. Instruction in such a matter is not only not unwise, but most needed and would be welcome. I would never want to see such a fellowship established here, unless I saw fruitful results issuing out of it. I do not want it to become a mere academic thing that in time would lose its edge and become a mere formal prize. I hope you will not reach any definite conclusion in the matter until in some way we can talk it out, for it is a big question and incapable of just solution by interchange of letters.

Assuring you of my deep interest in the matter, and hoping that a way will open for us to discuss it personally, I am,

I have the honor to inform you that at a meeting of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund held at the office of Anson Phelps Stokes, 100 William St., New York City, Wednesday, November 15, 1911, the following vote was passed:

"Voted to direct the Treasurer, as soon as the condition of the treasury warrants it, to pay over the sum of $12,500 to the Treasurer of the University of Georgia and the same amount to the Treasurer of the University of Virginia for the establishment of Fellowships for the study of the negro on the terms of the following resolution:

"Whereas, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes in establishing the Phelps-Stokes Fund was especially solicitous to assist in improving the condition of the negro, and

"Whereas, it is the conviction of the Trustees that one of the best methods of forwarding this purpose, is to provide means to enable southern youth of broad sympathy to make a scientific study of the negro and of his adustment to American civilization,

"Resolved, that twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500) be given to the University of Virginia for the permanent endowment of a research fellowship, on the following conditions:

"1. The University shall appoint a Fellow in Sociology for the Study of the Negro. He shall pursue advanced studies under the direction of the departments of Sociology, Economics, Education or History, as may be determined in each case by the President. The Fellowship shall yield $500, and shall, after four years, be retricted to graduate students.

"2. Each fellow shall prepare a paper or thesis embodying the result of his investigations which shall be published by the University with assistance from the income of the fund, any surplus remaining being applicable to other objects incident to the main purpose of the Fellowship. A copy of these resolutions shall be incorporated in every publication issued under this foundation.

"3. The right to make all necessary regulations, not inconsistent with the spirit and letter of these resolutiens, is given to the President and Faculty."

Trusting that this endowment will be acceptable to the trustees of the University of Virginia and that it may be of some service in helping the South both in improving the condition of the negro and in helping to solve the difficult problem of race adjustment, I am,

I have the honor to inform you that I have accepted a position as research Chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station, and I herewith hand you my resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia, to take effect at the beginning of the next collegiate year.

I beg to assure you that I have been very happy in my work here, and that I shall take leave of the University and of my colleagues on the Faculty with feelings of sincere regret and goodwill.

Many elements have entered into my decision to make this change, not the least of which are the ties of strong friendships and old associations that have always been very dear to me, and the feeling also that it will ultimately be greatly to the advantage of my children. I greatly appreciate all that you have done to advance my interests and promote the welfare of the chemical department, and I beg to assure you of my high personal regard and esteem.

I beg to acknowledge with very profound and sincere regret your communication of the 19th, inst., tendering your resignation as Professor of Chemistry, in the University of Virginia. I wish for you in your new position as research chemist with the Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station every opportunity for the advancement of your chosen field of work. You have served this University, permit me to say, with ability and distinction during your brief period of work here. You have made friends of your colleagues and friends of your pupils, and all of us feel, no one more than myself, that in losing you we are sustaining a genuine loss both in the direction of scientific power and personality. I appreciate the motives that have moved you to this decision, and while I deeply regret that the result is your separation from the work here, I can only wish for you in this new field the abundant measure of success you have achieved here.

The trustees of the Peabody Education Fund at a meeting held in New York on November 1, (1911) adopted the following:

"Voted, that to the University of Virginia, located at Charlottesville, Virginia and the University of Mississippi, located at University, Mississippi be granted each the sum of $40,000 to be used for erecting a building, to be called the George Peabody Building, for the school of education; this contribution to be made in each case on condition that the trustees of the University agree to contribute for the maintenance of the school of education at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000), annually; that each of these institutions be allowed one year within which to comply with this condition."

The University of Virginia will undertake to maintain a Department of Education upon which not less than $10,000.00 a year will be expended for maintenance per annum, provided the Peabody Education Fund will donate the sum of $40,000.00 to the Rector and Visitors of the University for the purpose of erecting a suitable building for the home of this department. The University already has in hand funds amounting to $7,000.00 a year that could be used legitimately for this purpose. It would be necessary for it, in order to carry out this proposition, to increase this amount by the sum of $3,000.00. This it hopes to be able to do in the next six months. It is, therefore, suggested that that amount of time, at least, be allowed the University of Virginia in which to meet the conditions of this proposition.

I am sure that as a result of our conference you will understand this need for delay.

I have the honor to inform you that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8 voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

In taking this action the executive committee have been influenced not only by the scholarly work of the University in the past, and the eminence of its faculty, but also by the advance which the University has made in the last five years in the adoption and enforcement of its standards of admission and in particular by the work which has been done by the University in the development of the secondary schools of the state. The executive committee realizes that a state university should relate itself directly to the system of high schools of its State, and it believes that the leadership which the University has shown in these matters will result not only in greater educational efficiency to the whole system of schools in Virginia, but that it will likewise result in furnishing to the            University a far better prepared group of students.

The executive committee hopes that the relation between the University and the Foundation may be not simply formal, but one of friendly interchange of opinion in all educational matters. I am,

I beg to acknowledge with very great pleasure and satisfaction the receipt of your communication of June 9th, wherein you inform me that the Executive Committee of the Foundation at its meeting on June 8th, voted to admit the University of Virginia to the list of accepted Institutions of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. I am gratified at this action of the Foundation, not solely because it secures against want the old age of men who have given their lives to an unlucrative but noble profession, but in a higher sense because such action signalizes the accomplishment by this University of a great undertaking which it set out to bring to pass nearly seven years ago. It now occupies a consistent and logical relation to the system of secondary education with which it is allied, and it has also concluded legislation by which it occupies consistent and logical relation in its graduate school, to the college and higher institutions. Such action of the Foundation is an added testimony to the fact that standards of admission established have been administered with integrity and good sense. I wish to express to the Foundation assurances of our belief that the Foundation has helped powerfully in enabling this University, and other Universities in this country to establish and maintain such standards as to unify the whole educational process. I too hope that the relations between the Foundation and the University may be one of material help and service in all educational development.

I shall have the honor to inform the Rector and Visitors of this University at their first meeting of the action taken by the Foundation, and they will further communicate to the Foundation an expression of their appreciation.

We are forwarding to you today via Adams Express thirty notes of $1,000.00 each, made by J. W. Hough and Abner S. Pope, payable to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. All of these notes bear interest from Jan. 1, 1911 to Jan. 1, 1913, at the rate of three per cent per annum, and after that date, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The notes are as follows:

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1913

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1914

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1915

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1916

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1917

Five notes of $1,000 00 each, payable January 1, 1918

To each of the notes is attached the coupons evidencing the interest at the rates above mentioned.

We also enclose the Deed of Trust which secures these notes. The notes represent the deferred payments upon the purchase price of the Stump Haul Fishery, devised to the University of Virginia under the will of Edward W. James.

Upon the receipt of these notes from the Express Company, we will be glad if you will send us a receipt for the same.

I am very anxious to get your advice and co-Operation in connection with the expenditure of the income of the Phelps-Stokes Fund of which I am one of the Trustees. This Fund, which amounts to about a million dollars, was left by my Aunt, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes, with the understanding that the income should be used for various educational purposes, but more particularly for advancing the cause of negro education in the South. I have had several conferences with out mutual friend, Dr. Dillard, and I wish your specific opinion regarding the plan that we have had under favorable discussion for creating fellowships, endowed we will say at $10,000. each, at two or three representative state universities in the South, such as the University of Virginia, and the University of Georgia. The Fellowship to be awarded by the proper university authorities to graduate students whose time would be devoted to studies on some phase of the negro problem. The administration of the Fund, the selection of incumbents, etc., to be entirely in the hands of the University authorities.

I have long been deeply interested in the negro problem. I have never taken quite the typical New England attitude regarding it, but have felt that the most progressive citizens of the South, like yourself, Edgar Gardner Murphy and Dr. Dillard were the ones who were best qualified to aid in solving the problem. I am particularly interested in helping to secure a small group of trained men who shall give their lives to the study and improvement of negro conditions, and I feel that the best place for working out such a plan is in Southern state Universities that are entirely controlled by Southern men and where there will be no suspicion that Eastern or Northern men are trying to dominate the situation. Do you think that such fellowships would be of service in the cause proposed and do you think that the establishment of such an endowed foundation would be acceptable to the authorities of your University.

One difficulty has suggested itself to my mind on which I would like your opinion also. Would it be feasible for such fellows to conduct researches at present where there is no professor in an institution who gives instruction in the subject involved? If not, could lectureships or perhaps ultimately professorships be established for the purpose of giving instruction and facts regarding negro history, conditions, education, housing, moral improvement, etc.? It would seem to be a logical thing for a university in the midst of Southern states to provide its students with information regarding one of the most important factors in our civilization, unless conditions are such that any instruction would lead to so much controversy as to make it unwise. If instruction is unwise, are the research fellowships still entirely feasible?

This is a hastily dictated letter, but I think it raises the questions clearly and shows you my attitude, which is a desire to help the intelligent leaders of Southern public opinion to solve their own problems not by making suggestions from without but by providing means. I am taking the liberty of sending a copy of this letter to Chancellor Barrow at the University of Georgia and will await replies from both of you with the deepest interest.

I was greatly interested to have your letter of the 29th, ult., and have been giving the matter of your suggestion very grave thought. I have felt for many years that a fundamental thing to do in this tangled problem is to cause it to be scientifically approached by the scholarship of the South. The thing to do is to take it out of the nervous system of our people and their emotions and to get it set up before them as a great human problem, economic in nature, scientific in character, to be acted upon as the result of broad, wise, sympathetic study. The time ought to come when our best scholars will take pride in making contributions, however minute, toward the handling of the great question. I have no doubt that an endowed foundation of the character suggested by you would be most acceptable to the authorities of this University. I am a bit troubled about just the right suggestion to make to you in regard to your definite proposition for the creating of fellowships endowed at approximately $10,000, and having for their primary purpose the securing ultimately of a small group of trained men who shall giv their life to the study and improvement of the negro conditions. Let me explain a bit. I established here, at Tulane University, and at the University of North Carolina the first Professorship of Economics: Sociological subjects were not being taught in Southern institutions. Even Political Science, as a scientific subject, has no independent status. We now have a very strong department of Economics, and temporarily, a very able lecturer in Political Science. Our full Professor of Economics, as you may know, is on the Tariff Board, and his place is supplied by a veryable fellow from Wisconsin. We have two full professors in the Department of Education, and these departments make it a point to emphasize the sociological aspects of education. There is, however, no Professor of Sociology. It, of course, is as yet an undefined and somewhat empiric science, but there is a tremendous current of interest among our men in the big questions affecting social betterment, the improvement of rural life, the imporvement of industrial life, the better governing of cities, questions of public health and sanitation, and foremost among them, supreme in its importance, stands, of course, the negro problem with all of its implications. The ideal need here is a professorship in that great field, giving to the negro problem its right place as the chief subject of scientific study by our analytic minded scholars. This, of course, means a good deal of money. The next in order would be, it seems to me, a lectureship demanding much less money, but devoted almost exclusively to the study of the negro problem and the social betterment question, to giving information to the young men, to giving the proper bent to their minds, to stimulating their interest, to developing in them right methods of approach to such a subject. It seems to me such a lectureship logically precedes the establishment of a fellowship. Out of such lectureship and its activities would come such interest as to arouse young men inside or outside of the University to strive for a prize to be offered by us in the form of a fellowship or scholarship. W the sum you mentioned, $500.00 a year would be yielded as income. If $400.00 of this could be given to a man who would come here and make, say, a dozen lectures and meet men in semina ways; and then, if $100.00 could be made as a prize for the best bit of research work in small fields at first-I mean small as to area-the matter could get itself tried out, though on somewhat too meager a basis. I hesitate for a moment, though I hate to seem to hesitate a second in such a matter to establish an independent Fellowship in such a subject when there is back of it no clear instruction or stimulation in the great field which the Fellowship would cover. My fear about it is simply that the work itself would not get justice. The work would not yield its best results. You may be sure I want this opportunity here. Would it be possible to consider the proposition to increase the sume just a bit so as to make the Lectureship and the Fellowship co-existent? If such could be done it seems to me a new era would be brought about in our best institutions in their attitude toward this matter. Last year one of our professors gave a course of talks on the negro, based on Weatherford's book. It was astonishing the interest taken in the matter, the book being used as a text-book. I heartily wish I could talk with you about this matter, or with my friend, Dillard. Instruction in such a matter is not only not unwise, but most needed and would be welcome. I would never want to see such a fellowship established here, unless I saw fruitful results issuing out of it. I do not want it to become a mere academic thing that in time would lose its edge and become a mere formal prize. I hope you will not reach any definite conclusion in the matter until in some way we can talk it out, for it is a big question and incapable of just solution by interchange of letters.

Assuring you of my deep interest in the matter, and hoping that a way will open for us to discuss it personally, I am,

I have the honor to inform you that at a meeting of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund held at the office of Anson Phelps Stokes, 100 William St., New York City, Wednesday, November 15, 1911, the following vote was passed:

"Voted to direct the Treasurer, as soon as the condition of the treasury warrants it, to pay over the sum of $12,500 to the Treasurer of the University of Georgia and the same amount to the Treasurer of the University of Virginia for the establishment of Fellowships for the study of the negro on the terms of the following resolution:

"Whereas, Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes in establishing the Phelps-Stokes Fund was especially solicitous to assist in improving the condition of the negro, and

"Whereas, it is the conviction of the Trustees that one of the best methods of forwarding this purpose, is to provide means to enable southern youth of broad sympathy to make a scientific study of the negro and of his adustment to American civilization,

"Resolved, that twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500) be given to the University of Virginia for the permanent endowment of a research fellowship, on the following conditions:

"1. The University shall appoint a Fellow in Sociology for the Study of the Negro. He shall pursue advanced studies under the direction of the departments of Sociology, Economics, Education or History, as may be determined in each case by the President. The Fellowship shall yield $500, and shall, after four years, be retricted to graduate students.

"2. Each fellow shall prepare a paper or thesis embodying the result of his investigations which shall be published by the University with assistance from the income of the fund, any surplus remaining being applicable to other objects incident to the main purpose of the Fellowship. A copy of these resolutions shall be incorporated in every publication issued under this foundation.

"3. The right to make all necessary regulations, not inconsistent with the spirit and letter of these resolutiens, is given to the President and Faculty."

Trusting that this endowment will be acceptable to the trustees of the University of Virginia and that it may be of some service in helping the South both in improving the condition of the negro and in helping to solve the difficult problem of race adjustment, I am,
