---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1912'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1912) November 12, 1912
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 12, 1912

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors on above date.

Present: Rector Gordon, Visitors White, Oliver, Randolph, and Irvine, and President Alderman.

The meeting having been called to order at 2:30 P. M., by the Rector, the President notified the Board, officially, of the death of Dr. Mallet, emeritus professor of Chemistry; and, on motion, it was

Resolved: That the President, the Rector, Dr. Randolph, Mr. Irvine and Mr. Oliver be appointed a committee to prepare suitable resolutions to be submitted to the Board upon the death of the late Dr. John W. Mallet.

Resolved: That, in response to the request proffered by the widow of the late Daniel Harmon, a distinguished member of this Board, that his body may be permanently interred in the cemetery of the University, the President of the University be authorized and requested to convey to Mrs. Harmon, the Board's asent to her wish, and to designate the spot for such sepulture, after consultation with the "Committee of the Faculty on the Cemetery."

Resolved: That the Board accept the proposition made by Mr. Frederick W. Smith, one of the devisees and legatees under the will of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, viz: that he will refrain from his proposed attack upon said will upon condition that the Rector and Visitors of the University surrender in absolute right, the one-half of the estate passing under said will to said Frederick W. Smith, and that John B. Moon, the attorney for the University, be authorized to carry this agreement into effect. By agreement of the parties interested, however, the provisions of said will may be modified or set aside in whole or in part, with a view to carrying out the proposed settlement.

Resolved: That this action of the Board is taken through their respect and esteem for Colonel Thomas Smith, another legatee and devisee, under said will, and their regard for his wishes in the premises.

The committee appointed to select a site for the building to be known as the Department of Education, having made its report, in which Mr. Manning, the consulting architect concurs, on motion, it is hereby

Resolved: That the report of the Committee be, and the same is hereby adopted the site so selected being that indicated in the Diagram herewith filed marked "A".

(see Diagram "A" on page 243)

Resolved: That the Building Committee heretofore appointed to deal with the Education Building, consisting of the President, Dr. Randolph, Dr. Lambeth, Professors Maphis and Newcomb, to which committee, Professor Heck is now added, be authorized to arrange for the plans and specifications for such building, and that they will report to the Board at some future meeting.

Resolved: That the Committee heretofore appointed to deal with the Education Building be authorized and directed to formulate and present to the next meeting of the Board, a scheme for the erection of a building on the site of the present building now occupied by the post-office and book-store at the entrance to the University grounds, and the reconstruction of said entrance and the erection of a gate upon said premises.

Resolved: That it is the sense of the Board that the "D.K.E." and "Pi Kappa Alpha" Fraternities be granted sites for thier respective chapter houses upon any two of the locations indicated as x upon the plot made by Mr. Manning marked "B", subject to the provisions heretofore made, with reference to fraternity houses.

A resolution adopted by the Medical Faculty on October 7th, 1912, and for them, submitted to the Board by Dean Whitehead, was approved as follows:

Resolved:- That beginning with the session of 1914'15, the regulation as to the entrance requirements of this Department be changed by substituting the following for the clause beginning with "and, in addition" (see Page 197 of catalogue),

And, in addition, to present evidence of the completion of at least one year's work in Inorganic (General) Chemistry, Physics, and Biology at an approved institution of collegiate rank. Candidates for admission will be required also to present satisfactory evidence of a reading knowledge of one modern language besides English, preferably German.

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.
