---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1914'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors at twelve o'clock, noon, on above date,

Present: Rector Gordon and Visitors Drewry, Flood, Irvine, Michie, Norton and White.

Reading of the minutes of the previous meeting was dispensed with for the present.

The Rector stated that the special object for which this meeting was called was the further consideration of the merger of the Medical Department of the University with the Medical College of Virginia, under the control of the University.

In view of the fact that at a former meeting at which the proposed merger was considered and passed upon, there were only five members present, it was thought wise to have the matter considered by a full Board, if possible.

The question was considered at much length by the members, together with Dr. Whitehead and Dr. Page. A telegram from Mr. Craddock, sent from Savannah, Ga., was presented, setting forth his views which were to the effect that, unless more satisfactory assurances of the proposed endowment had been received since the date of the last meeting, he was opposed to the merger.

Mr. White offered the following, which was defeated by a vote of 5 to 2, as follows:—Noes, Gordon, Flood, Irvine, Michie and Norton (5); Ayes, White and Drewry, (2);

Resolved: That the draft of an Act of Assembly, submitted to the Board, and looking to the transfer of the Medical School of this institution to Richmond upon certain conditions in said draft mentioned, be given by the Rector to some member of the Legislature, for introduction and passage at the present session of the General Assembly. An Act to Empower the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to remove the Medical Department of the University to the City of Richmond, and to take over the property of the Medical College of Virginia, to accept bequests and devises, and to assume certain liabilities of said Medical College of Virginia.

Whereas, it is believed that, by removing the Medical Department of the University of Virginia to Richmond, it will result in the establishment of a medical college of such commanding proportions and usefulness as to prove adequate not only for the needs of this State, but of a large part of the south; and

Whereas, in furtherance of that purpose, the Medical College of Virginia and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have reached an understanding looking to the removal of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia to Richmond, and the absorption by it of the said Medical College of Virginia, upon the terms contained in the said understanding, hereinafter set out, and

Whereas, the said Rector and Visitors do not feel that they have the power to carry the said understanding into effect without legislative authority; now, therefore,

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

First. That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are hereby authorized and empowered to transfer the medical Department of the University of Virginia to Richmond, Virginia, and there maintain and conduct said Department in accordance with the agreement between the said Rector and Visitors and the Medical College of Virginia, which agreement is in the following words and figures, viz:-

"Being convinced that the unification of the Medical Educational interests of the State of Virginia would result in a great medical school in this State, in order to accomplish this result, the Committees of the University of Virginia and of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the approval of their respective governing boards, agree to recommend to the General Assembly of Virginia, the passage of an act to enable the Medical College of Virginia to be merged into and become a part of the University of Virginia upon the following terms:

1\. The Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia will make an unconditional transfer of the property of the Medical College of Virginia, subject to the existing liabilities of said Medical College, which shall be assumed by the Rector and Visitors of the University, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as the nucleus of a department of Medicine of the University of Virginia in Richmond.

2\. The task of organizing this new Medical School, in all its details, shall be entrusted to the authorities of the University of Virginia.

3\. The proposed school shall be a bona fide department of the University of Virginia having the same academic and legal relationship to the University as that borne by the present Department of Medicine.

4\. The University of Virginia will discontinue the teaching of medicine at Charlottesville, except that the instruction in the subjects of the first year of the curriculum may be offered there; but the entire medical course will be maintained in Richmond and the first year of the course may be taken either in Richmond or in Charlottesville. And this provision shall become effective as soon as the transfer from Charlottesville to Richmond shall be completed.

5\. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board, designate and appoint from its members a special committee on the new department consisting of the President of the University "ex officio," and three members of the Board who shall have special charge, subject to the Board of Visitors, of the details of administration affecting said department. The executive management of the proposed school shall, unless and until otherwise determined by said Board of Visitors, be entrusted to a Dean of the Medical Department of the University of Virginia who shall reside in Richmond, subject to the direction of the Rector and Visitors of the University.

6\. The above agreement is conditioned upon the assurance satisfactory to the Rectorand Visitors of the University of Virginia, of securing sufficient funds to guarantee the establishment, organization and maintenance of the proposed school upon a thorough University basis in accordance with the best modern ideals."

Second. When the said Medical Department of the University shall have been so transferred, and the hospital, other buildings and equipment generally contemplated by said agreement shall have been installed in whole or in part, the said Rector and Visitors shall have the further power to do any and all things necessary, proper or desirable to conduct the said Medical Department at Richmond in all of its appointments and administrative features in such manner as shall seem to them proper and desirable.

Third. The Property of the Medical College of Virginia referred to in the said agreement, shall be transferred to the said Rector and Visitors at the end of the current session of the said college, or such subsequent date as may be fixed by the said Rector and Visitors; and when the latter shall enter into possession of said property, full power and authority is hereby given the said Rector and Visitors to assume the indebtedness of said College as of the date of such transfer of possession.

Fourth. Further power and authority are hereby given said Rector and Visitors to accept any and all contributions, donations, legacies and devises which may, from time to time, be made by individuals, corporations, or associations for the use and promotion of the purposes of the said Medical Department at Richmond.

Fifth. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed.

Sixth. An emergency existing therefor by reason of the necessity for taking over the property in Richmond and to receive and use the contributions mentioned in the above agreement, this act shall be in force from its passage.

The question of building an additional wing to the hospital was considered and laid on the table.

Dr. Page stated to the Board that the prospects for securing the establishment of a School of Forestry at the University were very good, and it was tentatively agreed that Dr. Page should handle the matter in such way as may seem to him proper.

Application of the Alpha Chapter of Chi Phi Fraternity for a site on western side of Carr's Hill on which to erect a Fraternity House, was received and granted.

Messrs. Flood and Norton, composing a Committee to arrange for the inauguration of the Ryan Scholarships under appointment by the Rector at the November 11th meeting, submitted the following rules and regulations, which were unanimously adopted:-

Resolved: That the following provisions shall govern the Thomas Fortune Ryan Scholarships, subject to the approval of President Alderman and Mr. Ryan.

1\. The Scholarships shall be known as "The Thomas Fortune Ryan Scholarships."

2\. If practicable and as far as possible, one of these scholarships shall be given to a student in each of the ten congressional districts of the State; said applicant must have been a bona fide resident of the congressional district from which he makes application for two years prior to such application, and no two appointees shall come from the same Congressional district, unless there is a failure of applicants from some otherdistrict.

3\. The recipients of such scholarships will be required to satisfy the entrance requirements.

4\. The selection of the recipients of such scholarships shall be made prior to the first of July each year.

5\. Four years is the maximum period that any one person can receive this scholarship, and his right thereto is to be determined each year.

6\. The recipient of the scholarship will be allowed to take any course in the University he may desire.

7\. Each candidate must submit to the Rector and the Board of Visitors at least two testimonials of good character and future promise, from authoritative sources and a letter of his own stating he needs financial assistance to attend the University.

8\. The selection of the incumbent to each Ryan Scholarship will be made by the Rector and Board of Visitors; in making such selection, weight will be given to the testimonials and character, and particularly to evidence of future promise submitted by the applicant.

9\. The value of each scholarship is three hundred dollars a year.

Dr. C. W. Kent, Chairman of the Religious Exercises Committee, sent a communication to the Board setting forth the fact that certain funds collected by Prof. Dunnington, acting Treasurer of the old Temperance Society, accruing from rentals for the rooms in the old Temperance Hall, had been turned over to the Proctor of the University in 1895, and that other certain rentals were received by the Proctor, all of which was turned into the general income account of the University and used by it in payment of current expenses, and that no part of such funds had ever been repaid to the Temperance Society.

A large amount of money now being required to erect the building to replace the old Temperance Hall, the income of which had been, during recent years, used by the Committee on Religious Exercises in supplying the University Chapel with ministers, etc., the Committee requested that such funds as may have been turned into the general treasury of the University, be refunded. The matter was referred to the Executive Committee to investigate and report back.

Resolved: (1) That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia desire to make grateful acknowledgment to Mrs. Mary Cameron Buford, of Richmond, Virginia, for the gift of a portrait of her distinguished brother, William Alexander Ross.

(2) That it will be with great pleasure that the Visitors will direct the hanging of this portrait in company with that of another distinguished brother, Dr. George Ross, as being peculiarly worthy to adorn the walls of Alma Mater,—perpetuating as it will the memory of a member of the "Southern Guard," a son who after a brilliant career in the service of his country, gave for her his life upon the field of battle.

On motion, the Board adjourned.
