---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1914'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Mr. A. L. Hall-Quest

Associate Prof. of Education

Mr. H. P. Johnson

Adjunct Prof. of Eng. Lit.

Mr. L. R. Whipple

Adjunct Prof. of Eng. Lit.

Mr. W. E. Maneval

Instructor in Botany

Mr. D. H. Ramsey

Locum tenens in Economics

A meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 12 m., with the following members, Rector Gordon, and Visitors White, Hatton, Chinn, Michie, Drewry and Oliver.

The "Committee on Gateway" made its report as to plans submitted, and stated that those submitted by Mr. Bacon, of New York, were chosen as the most suitable, but suggested that before final action was had thereon, bids should be secured, so that the cost could be definitely determined on.

The vacancy in the "Ryan Scholarship" from the Third Congressional District, caused by the death of R. Taylor Scott, was filled by the unanimous appointment of W. A. Williams, Jr. The other applicants were Cason, Taylor, and Word.

Mr. Hugh Davis, Attorney for the Norfolk Bank for Savings and Trusts, Trustees under the will of the late Dr. B. W. Green, stated to the Board that the trustees would be ready at an early date to turn over to the University the estate, and desired that some one be designated to receipt for same; whereupon Mr. White offered the following, which was adopted:

It having been brought to the attention of the Board that the executor or trustee of the estate of the late Dr. B. W. Green, is, or in the very near future, will be ready to turn over to the University the money and property due it under the will of Dr. Green, it is hereby resolved,- That authority to accept and receipt for the money and property is hereby given the Rector.

The matter of running a water supply to the Observatory was taken up. Dr. Page explained to the Board how very necessary it was to remedy the water supply there, and Dr. Lambeth stated that in view of the urgency of the matter, he had already begun the work, feeling satisfied that he could put in the line at less cost by using his force than by letting same to contract. The best bid he had was for $1350.

On motion, it was

Resolved, that the water line be laid to the Observatory at a cost not to exceed $1350, and that the same be paid for out of the reserve for contingent expenses of 1913.

The following was adopted: (Mr. Hatton voted, No)

Whereas the Board is advised by the Dean that quite a number of young men who had contemplated coming to the University this session from the cotton section of the South; have been unable to do so on account of the cotton market, it is hereby

Resolved: That the Dean is authorized for the current session to advise all such young men that they can come, provided they will pay the tuition and other fees in cotton warehouse certificates, issued at the rate of not exceeding ten cents per pound.

Appointment of the following professors and instructors was confirmed:

The Board was advised that owing to his health, Dr. C. W. Kent would be unable to resume his duties before Jan. 15th, 1915, Whereupon, the following was adopted:

Resolved: That Dr. Kent be granted a leave of absence to January 15th, 1915, and that Mr. Whipple be appointed Adjunct Prof. of English Literature for the term of leave granted Dr. Kent.

Dr. Page explained to the Board the overcrowded conditions in the school of Collegiate Chemistry, necessitating the appointment of an assistant to Dr. R. M. Bird, whereupon the following was adopted:

Resolved: That an additional assistant in Chemistry be appointed for the session of 1914-15, at a salary of $250.

Dr. Page stated to the Board that when the budget was made for the current fiscal year the salary of Dr. R. H. Webb was placed at $2750., whereas, he had a contract with Dr. Alderman, calling for a salary of $3,000. from September 15th, 1914. Whereupon, the following was adopted:

Resolved: That the salary of Dr. R. H. Webb be made $3,000, dating from September 15th, 1914.

Dr. Page stated that owing to the increased number of students in the department of Pharmacology it was necessary to appoint an additional assistant, whereupon the following was adopted:

Resolved: That an assistant be appointed in Pharmacology for the session of 1914-15 at a salary of $100.

Resolved,—That a sum not to exceed $500. be appropriated to be expended in the discretion of the Dean or President in taki steps to discover and prevent the continuance of the robberies that have recently occurred in the limits of the University.

The sum of $50. was appropriated to prepare photographs, charts, etc., of the University, for the exhibition at the Panama-Pacific Expositions.

The salary of the janitor in Physics Laboratory was made $25. per month for ten months, from September 1st to June 30th.

An additional sum of $50. was appropriated for lantern slides for the Latin Department.

Resolved: That the Board confirm the action of the Executive Committee in fixing the salary of the Bursar at the rate of $2500. per annum from Sept. 1, 1914, to July 1, 1915 and at the rate of $3,000 per annum from said last named date.

Resolved: That the appreciative thanks of the Rector and Visitors be extended to Mrs. James A. Harrison and Mr. J. Letcher Harrison for the gift to the University Library of a portion of the books of the late Professor James A. Harrison.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, that the road to the rear of the East Lawn residences be macadamized has been received by the Rector and Visitors with surprise , the Board of Visitors not having authorized the changes in this road that require the macadamizing thereof.

Resolved: That the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be requested to furnish the Dean an estimate of the cost of the work proposed.

Resolved: That the Dean be authorized to direct said work, if in his opinion the cost is not excessive, and the requirements justify it.

Resolved: That the building No. I, West Lawn, be placed in good repair and supplied with proper furniture and equipment for the proper housing and accommodation of the Board of Visitors.

Whereas, the General Assembly of Virginia holds this Board accountable for the proper expenditure of the money which it from time to time appropriated for the University, therefore, be it,

Resolved: That no part of such appropriations or of any other funds of the University shall be expended until written application shall be made to this Board, through the President, setting out in detail the purpose of such expenditure, together with details of each, and all other information necessary to enable the Board to act intelligently; but it is understood that this resolution does not apply to those small and ordinary expenditures which are essential to the proper upkeep of the University property, and to the administration of the current life of the University.

Resolved: That a committee of this Board, together with the President, be appointed to revise and correct the Code of Laws of the University, and report the same to this Board,-said committee to consist of three members of the Board, with the president,-viz: the Rector, Mr. Michie, and Mr. Oliver.

The following letter from the Sate Accountant was presented by the Rector, read, and ordered spread upon the minutes,-

A recent audit of the books of the University of Virginia, made by this office, shows the books to have been correctly kept, and that all entries in same are sustained by vouchers properly filed. The period covered by the examination was from July 1st, 1913 to July 1st, 1914. I am glad to report that the service here is painstaking and satisfactory to this office.

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to call of the Rector.

A recent audit of the books of the University of Virginia, made by this office, shows the books to have been correctly kept, and that all entries in same are sustained by vouchers properly filed. The period covered by the examination was from July 1st, 1913 to July 1st, 1914. I am glad to report that the service here is painstaking and satisfactory to this office.

A recent audit of the books of the University of Virginia, made by this office, shows the books to have been correctly kept, and that all entries in same are sustained by vouchers properly filed. The period covered by the examination was from July 1st, 1913 to July 1st, 1914. I am glad to report that the service here is painstaking and satisfactory to this office.
