---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1917'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Appraisement of the Furniture of the late Miss Mary Amelia Smith, Wednesday, April 23rd, 1913.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

$2,000

N. Y. Gas, Electric Light, Heat & Power 4% bonds,

$1,710.

1,500

Mobile and Ohio Railway 4% bonds,

1,125.

1,000

Scioto Valley & New England Ry. 4% bonds,

910.

25 Shares preferred stock of the American Sugar Refining Company,

2,950.

Total,

$6,695.

1 Walnut Bureau,

5.00

1 Old Fashioned hair dresser,

3.00

1 Marble top mahogany bureau,

10.00

1 Mahogany wardrobe and writing case,

20.00

1 Bedstead,

8.00

1 Mahogany washstand, marble top,

4.00

1 Teaster bedstead, Col. Smith,

5.00

1 Mahogany bureau,

10.00

1 Mahogany washstand, marble top,

3.00

1 Mahogany wardrobe,

10.00

1 Mahogany bedstead,

5.00

3 mattresses,

3.00

1 Folding bed,

8.00

2 Walnut "What-not" stands,

1.50

1 Mirror with marble stand,

25.00

1 China case,

10.00

1 Walnut marble top table,

4.00

1 Sofa and 6 chairs,

10.00

1 Walnut, "What-not Table", marble top,

5.00

2 small Mahogany marble top tables,

4.00

1 Brass stand,

5.00

2 Mahogany tables,

12.00

2 Mahogany Ottomans,

3.00

1 Stand with two drawers,

4.00

1 Writing desk, Col. Smith,

2.50

1 China Press,

5.00

1 Walnut writing desk,

3.00

1 Mahogany marble top table,

4.00

1 Hat rack,

2.00

1 Mirror, Col. Smith,

1.50

1 Oak Wardrobe,

8.00

1 Walnut sideborad,

3.00

1 Bookcase,

1.50

1 Oak marble top sideborad,

5.00

1 Oak bookcase,

5.00

1 Oak desk,

3.00

Total,

$ 221.00

(Signed)

Hugh Hamilton

Apprisers.

E. J. Sudduth

A. F. Rose

14

plates

1

soup tureen

3

pitchers

2

bowls

6

dishes

2

small dishes

8

saucers

10

cups

2

chocolate pots

1

butter dish

1

big cup

1

queer article

1

plated basket

2

gold lockets with pictures

1

gold pin containing Miss Smith's hair

1

gold handkerchief holder

6

small trinkets

7

souvenir spoons, silver

2

napkin rings, silver

1

opal ring

1

eye glass

1

pewter ring

Sleeve buttons

Pairs of era-rings

Tortoise shell

1

Amethyst ring

1

seal

2

Confederate badges

1

gold very small hatchet

leather stamp book

Teeth

Silver knife marked "Piedmont"

6

knives

1

fork

1

silver ladle

2

silver plated goblets

Large silver ornament, Portable

1

plated basket

Butter dish

3

plated table spoons

4

plated forks

4

teaspoons

2

coffee spoons

4

knives

4

cotton sheets

4

cotton pillow cases

An adjourned meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock p. m., with the following present: The Rector, Armistead C. Gordon, Visitors, Craddock, Hatton, Irvine, Lewis, Michie, Stearnes and Turnbull, and President Alderman.

For the special Committee appointed at the meeting of this Board, held October 19, 1916, charged with the settlement of all matters in connection with the legacy of $50,000 under the will of Robert Lewis Parrish, deceased, Mr. Craddock made a verbal report giving an outline of the situation to date and stating that Mr. Perkins had been requested to prepare a concise report of the whole matter, the details of the transaction being numerous.

On consideration whereof, the Board decided to defer action upon the subject, awaiting said report.

Mr. Craddock, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the following resolution, which were adopted:

WHEREAS, There is now in the hands of the Bursar the sum of $8,820. in cash belonging to the R. L. Parrish Estate, seeking investment; and,

WHEREAS, The University holds certain funds in the Francis L. Wilson Estate, which has been appropriated to the erection of the New Heating plant at the coal bin, said heating plant having been now completed, be it

RESOLVED, That the Finance Committee is hereby authorized to use the funds of the R. L. Parrish Estate to purchase the following securities of the Wilson Estate, at the price as set out:

WHEREAS, There are now in the hands of the Bursar of the University $30,000 Southern Railway General Development 4% bonds received from the Alumni Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund, being a part of the gift of Charles Steele to said fund, but with the understanding that same could be used for the erection of an addition to the Hospital, which addition has been erected and financed out of other funds by the Bursar, awaiting the delivery of said bonds; and

WHEREAS, It is not considered wise to place said bonds on the general market at this time, owing to the downward turn of the securities market; therefore be it

RESOLVED, That the Finance Committee be and is hereby authorized to transfer said bonds to the James Estate at the price of 71, paying same out of funds now in the said James Estate seeking investment.

RESOLVED, That the action of the Rector in making transfer of $17,000. Virginia Century bonds, belonging to the Sinking Fund of the University, and $7,000. Virginia 3's, known as Riddlebergers, as per request of Finance Committee, embodied in a resolution adopted by it on October 19th, be and is hereby approved and ratified by the Rector and Visitors.

The Secretary presented a communication he had received from Granville Gaines, attorney for Col. Thomas Smith, requesting that the University give to Col. Smith certain articles of furniture and china, being part of the personal property bequeathed to the University under the will of Mary Amelia Smith, his sister, of which estate he is the life-tenant. After consideration of the matter, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That upon the request of Col. Tom. Smith, through his attorney, Grenville Gaines, dated January 29, 1917, which request and schedule of certain articles thereto attached are made a part of this resolution, the University relinquishes all claim to the said articles as enumerated in said schedule. The letter of Mr. Gaines follows:

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Virginia, by her last will and testament, recorded February 24th, 1913, in Will Book 47 at page 34 in Fauquier County Clerk's Office, Virginia, left all of her property of every kind and description for life to the brothers that survived her, of which there were only two, namely: Fred W. Smith and Col. Thomas Smith, and at their death all of said property both real and personal, was to go to the University of Virginia. Shortly after Miss Mary Amelia Smith's death, her brother, one of the above mentioned survivors, returned from South Africa and immediately began to take steps to break the will of sister Mary Amelia Smith, and thereby prevent University of Virginia from having any of her property.

The result of his efforts was settled by the University of Virginia agreeing with Col. Thomas Smith, his other brother, (which agreement is of record in the Clerk's Office of Fauquier County, Virginia), that he, Fred W. Smith, should have absolutely one half of all of his sister, Miss Mary Amelia Smith's property, all of which he has practically received in the shape of bonds and money.

Now Col. Thomas Smith, the other beneficiary and surviving brother of the life interest, refused to be the recipient or beneficiary in any way of the aforesaid agreement; but on the contrary, agreed that he should receive the income from the other half of said property during his lifetime, and at his death his entire half of the property for life should go to the University as was directed and intended by his sister's will. This was very high and honorable on the part of Col. Thomas Smith, and if he had so desired he could have insisted that his half of the property come to him absolutely, because Fred W. Smith was entitled to his one half absolutely, he, Col. Smith was necessarily entitled to his one half absolutely, but being a University graduate and a worshipper and lover of his Alma Mater, he desired and wished that she should have all that he could possibly give her.

Now Col. Smith is not in the same financial condition that he was then, and I find as part of the property some furniture, some odds and ends of china and some scattering pieces of silver and gold, in the shape of rings, spoons, knives, etc. A full and correct list of which is hereto attached and made a part of this appeal or petition. The value of which I don't suppose if over three or four hundred dollars or at least would not bring over that if put up to public sale which the University would do.

Now I ask that you Honorable Rector and Visitors will give property as shown by list hereto attached to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple by proper resolution and authority, executed by your Rector and Visitors. To have this property put up and sold, especially some of the articles, would be very mortifying to Col. Smith and also would deprive him of some property which he could give to those who are nearest to him at his death and which would be treasured and not sold to Tom, Dick and Harry, which you can see by reading the list of articles, would be very unpleasant. I sincerely trust that you will, at your earliest convenience take the proper steps to see that the property, as shown by list hereto attached is given to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple.

List of China found in California House, former home of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, deceased, which property belonged to Miss Smith, but the same has not been appraised, but the same is very ordinary china and of very little value, as you will see that they are odd pieces.

List of articles found in the California House, former home of Miss Mary Amelia Smith, deceased, which property belonged to Miss Smith, but the same has not been appraised and is of very little value:

One black case containing:

You will see that these are all odd articles and practically of very little value and to put them up at public sale would be mortifying to Col. Smith, and would bring very little revenue to the University of Virginia.

The principal item of business for which the Board meeting was called was the question of the establishment at the University of one or more units of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

President Alderman stated that after consultation with a number of students who had approached him in the matter of the establishment here of said corps, he appointed a special committee from the faculty to consider and report to him their findings, and that said committee had reported unanimously in favor of the proposition.

The matter was discussed very fully by the members of the Board, the members of the special committee who were present upon the request of the President, and Major Greene, Commandant of the Staunton Military Academy, who had been detailed to come to the University by the War Department in order to give such information in regard to the establishment of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps as might be desired by the Board, and the following resolutions adopted by a vote of 7 to 1, to wit: Ayes, Craddock, Hatton, Irvine, Lewis, Michie, Stearnes. and Turnbull; Noes, Gordon. (Mr. Gordon asked that a paper setting forth his reasons for voting against the resolution be copied on the minutes of the Board.)

RESOLVED, By the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

That the Rector and President be and are hereby authorized to make application to the President of the United States to establish at this University one or more units of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps — Senior Division — in accordance with the provisions of an act of Congress entitled an "Act for making further and more effectual provision for the national defense and for other purposes".

That there be detailed for duty as Professors and Assistant Professors of Military Science and Tactics in this University, such officers of the United States Army as may be deemed necessary.

Provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as in any manner diminishing or impairing the authority and power vested by law in The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to regulate and control the affairs of this University.

The Rector and Visitors are moved to take this step from considerations of patriotic duty and in view of the immediate needs of the country in a definite national crisis. It is not the purpose of the Governing Board to incorporate permanently in the life of the University a Department of Military Science, or to cause the institution to take on the character of a military school. They believe that the highest service of the University lies elsewhere. In a time of grave national need, however, when the elementary responsibility of democratic citizenship involves defense of the country's honor and safety, it is their judgment that the brave and capable youth gathered at the University of Virginia for instruction, should not be denied the privilege of equipping themselves, whether in scientific preparation or military science, for rendering the most skillful and effective service that the Republic may demand. We are fortified in this conclusion by the unanimous approval of the President and Faculty of the University and by a knowledge that the Founder of the University, under similar conditions of national danger, thus wrote to his friend, James Monroe, under date of June 18, 1813:

"But it proves more forcibly the necessity of obliging every citizen to be a soldier. This was the case with the Greeks and Romans, and must be that of every free state. Where there is no opression there will be no pauper hirelings. We must train and classify the whole of our male citizens, and make military instruction a regular part of collegiate education. We can never be safe till this is done."

That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia recognizing that the United States is now in a state of war with a ruthless European power, hereby solemnly pledges to Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States, the loyal cooperation of his Alma Mater in the defense of that liberty, honor and independence which George Washington and Thomas Jefferson did so much to establish and maintain.

Mr. Gordon's reasons for voting against the foregoing resolution:

I am unable to vote for the establishment of a Reserve Officers' Training Corps in the University of Virginia, under the provisions of the Federal Act entitled "An Act for making further and more effectual provision for the national defense, and for other purposes", for the following reasons:

First, The Federal Act provides (sec. 41) that the War Department shall detail, and thereby appoint, an officer of the Army as "Professor of Military Science and Tactics" in the University, in contravention of the organic law of the University, as contained in Section 1546, of the Code of Virginia, vol. 1, page 826, which confers exclusive authority on the Board of Visitors to appoint Professors, and which is in the following language:

"The said Board shall be charged with the care and preservation of all property belonging to the University. They shall appoint a President with such duties as may be prescribed by said Board, and professors as they deem proper, and with the assent of two-thirds of the whole number of visitors may remove such President or any professor. They may prescribe the duties of each professor, and the course and mode of instruction," etc.

Second: The Federal Act provides (sec. 47) that the Secretary of War may issue to institutions in which such a Professorship of Military Science and Tactics is established "such public animals, arms, uniforms, equipment and means of transportation as he may deem necessary, and to forage at the expense of the United States public animals so issued. He shall require from such institutions to which property of the United States is issued a bond in the value of the property issued, for the care and safe-keeping thereof, and for its return when required."

The effect of this provision is a two-fold one, (1) to create such a trust in the University, with reference to such \`public animals, arms, uniforms, and equipment,' as is not contemplated by the organic law of the University, and for the assumption and execution of which there is no authority in the University, either express or implied: (2) the requirement that the University shall give "a bond in the value of the property issued for the care and safe-keeping thereof, and for its return when required," is in contravention of Section 1556 of the Code of Virginia, vol. 1, page 828, which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University to contract any debt whatever on account of said University, without the consent of the Legislature previously obtained." (Act 1883-1884, page 544.)

This inhibition on the Rector and Visitors to "contract any debt whatever," is not repealed or abrogated by section 1546 of the Code, as amended by Act of March 13, 1908 (Acts 1908, page 379), which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to issue its obligations to be secured by deed of trust on its real estate, without the consent of the General Assembly previously obtained."

The Court of Appeals of Virginia has decided in the case of Phillips vs. University, 97 Va. 475, that "the University of Virginia, though controlled by a corporation, is a public institution. Its grounds and buildings are property of the State, used for public purposes, and no debt thereon can be created save by special legislative enactment;" and this would be true, even in the absence of legislative enactment forbidding the contracting of any debt by the Rector and Visitors.

Third: The Legislature of Virginia has designed and established by law a system of education in the State, which includes both civil and military instruction in designated institutions. The branches of learning prescribed by law to be taught at the University (sec. 1552) do not include military instruction, and are entirely of an academic and civil character. The organic law of the Virginia Military Institute prescribes that it shall be a "military school." (Code of Virginia, section 1563, p. 830). The organic law of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute prescribes that "the curriculum of the said college shall embrace such branches of learning as relate to agriculture and the mechanic arts, without excluding other scientific and classical studies, and including military tactics." (sec. 1589)

I do not think, that in the absence of legislative enactment, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia have the power to alter the system of instruction designated and provided for the State by the General Assembly by the establishment of a school of military science and tactics in the University.

Without considering the grave question of the expediency of establishing such a chair in the University, and thereby reversing an historical method which has prevailed in this institution for nearly a hundred years, the reasons which I have given above seem to me of such significance as to compel me to vote in the negative on this proposition.

The President suggested to the Board that owing to the lateness of the hour a committee consisting of the Rector and Mr. Michie be appointed to assist him in handling the remaining matters on the docket, being matters of routine business, which was agreed to.

The meeting then adjourned.

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Virginia, by her last will and testament, recorded February 24th, 1913, in Will Book 47 at page 34 in Fauquier County Clerk's Office, Virginia, left all of her property of every kind and description for life to the brothers that survived her, of which there were only two, namely: Fred W. Smith and Col. Thomas Smith, and at their death all of said property both real and personal, was to go to the University of Virginia. Shortly after Miss Mary Amelia Smith's death, her brother, one of the above mentioned survivors, returned from South Africa and immediately began to take steps to break the will of sister Mary Amelia Smith, and thereby prevent University of Virginia from having any of her property.

The result of his efforts was settled by the University of Virginia agreeing with Col. Thomas Smith, his other brother, (which agreement is of record in the Clerk's Office of Fauquier County, Virginia), that he, Fred W. Smith, should have absolutely one half of all of his sister, Miss Mary Amelia Smith's property, all of which he has practically received in the shape of bonds and money.

Now Col. Thomas Smith, the other beneficiary and surviving brother of the life interest, refused to be the recipient or beneficiary in any way of the aforesaid agreement; but on the contrary, agreed that he should receive the income from the other half of said property during his lifetime, and at his death his entire half of the property for life should go to the University as was directed and intended by his sister's will. This was very high and honorable on the part of Col. Thomas Smith, and if he had so desired he could have insisted that his half of the property come to him absolutely, because Fred W. Smith was entitled to his one half absolutely, he, Col. Smith was necessarily entitled to his one half absolutely, but being a University graduate and a worshipper and lover of his Alma Mater, he desired and wished that she should have all that he could possibly give her.

Now Col. Smith is not in the same financial condition that he was then, and I find as part of the property some furniture, some odds and ends of china and some scattering pieces of silver and gold, in the shape of rings, spoons, knives, etc. A full and correct list of which is hereto attached and made a part of this appeal or petition. The value of which I don't suppose if over three or four hundred dollars or at least would not bring over that if put up to public sale which the University would do.

Now I ask that you Honorable Rector and Visitors will give property as shown by list hereto attached to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple by proper resolution and authority, executed by your Rector and Visitors. To have this property put up and sold, especially some of the articles, would be very mortifying to Col. Smith and also would deprive him of some property which he could give to those who are nearest to him at his death and which would be treasured and not sold to Tom, Dick and Harry, which you can see by reading the list of articles, would be very unpleasant. I sincerely trust that you will, at your earliest convenience take the proper steps to see that the property, as shown by list hereto attached is given to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple.

The effect of this provision is a two-fold one, (1) to create such a trust in the University, with reference to such \`public animals, arms, uniforms, and equipment,' as is not contemplated by the organic law of the University, and for the assumption and execution of which there is no authority in the University, either express or implied: (2) the requirement that the University shall give "a bond in the value of the property issued for the care and safe-keeping thereof, and for its return when required," is in contravention of Section 1556 of the Code of Virginia, vol. 1, page 828, which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University to contract any debt whatever on account of said University, without the consent of the Legislature previously obtained." (Act 1883-1884, page 544.)

This inhibition on the Rector and Visitors to "contract any debt whatever," is not repealed or abrogated by section 1546 of the Code, as amended by Act of March 13, 1908 (Acts 1908, page 379), which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to issue its obligations to be secured by deed of trust on its real estate, without the consent of the General Assembly previously obtained."

The Court of Appeals of Virginia has decided in the case of Phillips vs. University, 97 Va. 475, that "the University of Virginia, though controlled by a corporation, is a public institution. Its grounds and buildings are property of the State, used for public purposes, and no debt thereon can be created save by special legislative enactment;" and this would be true, even in the absence of legislative enactment forbidding the contracting of any debt by the Rector and Visitors.

Third: The Legislature of Virginia has designed and established by law a system of education in the State, which includes both civil and military instruction in designated institutions. The branches of learning prescribed by law to be taught at the University (sec. 1552) do not include military instruction, and are entirely of an academic and civil character. The organic law of the Virginia Military Institute prescribes that it shall be a "military school." (Code of Virginia, section 1563, p. 830). The organic law of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute prescribes that "the curriculum of the said college shall embrace such branches of learning as relate to agriculture and the mechanic arts, without excluding other scientific and classical studies, and including military tactics." (sec. 1589)

I do not think, that in the absence of legislative enactment, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia have the power to alter the system of instruction designated and provided for the State by the General Assembly by the establishment of a school of military science and tactics in the University.

Without considering the grave question of the expediency of establishing such a chair in the University, and thereby reversing an historical method which has prevailed in this institution for nearly a hundred years, the reasons which I have given above seem to me of such significance as to compel me to vote in the negative on this proposition.

Miss Mary Amelia Smith of Warrenton, Virginia, by her last will and testament, recorded February 24th, 1913, in Will Book 47 at page 34 in Fauquier County Clerk's Office, Virginia, left all of her property of every kind and description for life to the brothers that survived her, of which there were only two, namely: Fred W. Smith and Col. Thomas Smith, and at their death all of said property both real and personal, was to go to the University of Virginia. Shortly after Miss Mary Amelia Smith's death, her brother, one of the above mentioned survivors, returned from South Africa and immediately began to take steps to break the will of sister Mary Amelia Smith, and thereby prevent University of Virginia from having any of her property.

The result of his efforts was settled by the University of Virginia agreeing with Col. Thomas Smith, his other brother, (which agreement is of record in the Clerk's Office of Fauquier County, Virginia), that he, Fred W. Smith, should have absolutely one half of all of his sister, Miss Mary Amelia Smith's property, all of which he has practically received in the shape of bonds and money.

Now Col. Thomas Smith, the other beneficiary and surviving brother of the life interest, refused to be the recipient or beneficiary in any way of the aforesaid agreement; but on the contrary, agreed that he should receive the income from the other half of said property during his lifetime, and at his death his entire half of the property for life should go to the University as was directed and intended by his sister's will. This was very high and honorable on the part of Col. Thomas Smith, and if he had so desired he could have insisted that his half of the property come to him absolutely, because Fred W. Smith was entitled to his one half absolutely, he, Col. Smith was necessarily entitled to his one half absolutely, but being a University graduate and a worshipper and lover of his Alma Mater, he desired and wished that she should have all that he could possibly give her.

Now Col. Smith is not in the same financial condition that he was then, and I find as part of the property some furniture, some odds and ends of china and some scattering pieces of silver and gold, in the shape of rings, spoons, knives, etc. A full and correct list of which is hereto attached and made a part of this appeal or petition. The value of which I don't suppose if over three or four hundred dollars or at least would not bring over that if put up to public sale which the University would do.

Now I ask that you Honorable Rector and Visitors will give property as shown by list hereto attached to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple by proper resolution and authority, executed by your Rector and Visitors. To have this property put up and sold, especially some of the articles, would be very mortifying to Col. Smith and also would deprive him of some property which he could give to those who are nearest to him at his death and which would be treasured and not sold to Tom, Dick and Harry, which you can see by reading the list of articles, would be very unpleasant. I sincerely trust that you will, at your earliest convenience take the proper steps to see that the property, as shown by list hereto attached is given to Col. Thomas Smith absolutely and in fee simple.

The effect of this provision is a two-fold one, (1) to create such a trust in the University, with reference to such \`public animals, arms, uniforms, and equipment,' as is not contemplated by the organic law of the University, and for the assumption and execution of which there is no authority in the University, either express or implied: (2) the requirement that the University shall give "a bond in the value of the property issued for the care and safe-keeping thereof, and for its return when required," is in contravention of Section 1556 of the Code of Virginia, vol. 1, page 828, which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University to contract any debt whatever on account of said University, without the consent of the Legislature previously obtained." (Act 1883-1884, page 544.)

This inhibition on the Rector and Visitors to "contract any debt whatever," is not repealed or abrogated by section 1546 of the Code, as amended by Act of March 13, 1908 (Acts 1908, page 379), which provides that "it shall not be lawful for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to issue its obligations to be secured by deed of trust on its real estate, without the consent of the General Assembly previously obtained."

The Court of Appeals of Virginia has decided in the case of Phillips vs. University, 97 Va. 475, that "the University of Virginia, though controlled by a corporation, is a public institution. Its grounds and buildings are property of the State, used for public purposes, and no debt thereon can be created save by special legislative enactment;" and this would be true, even in the absence of legislative enactment forbidding the contracting of any debt by the Rector and Visitors.

Third: The Legislature of Virginia has designed and established by law a system of education in the State, which includes both civil and military instruction in designated institutions. The branches of learning prescribed by law to be taught at the University (sec. 1552) do not include military instruction, and are entirely of an academic and civil character. The organic law of the Virginia Military Institute prescribes that it shall be a "military school." (Code of Virginia, section 1563, p. 830). The organic law of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute prescribes that "the curriculum of the said college shall embrace such branches of learning as relate to agriculture and the mechanic arts, without excluding other scientific and classical studies, and including military tactics." (sec. 1589)

I do not think, that in the absence of legislative enactment, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia have the power to alter the system of instruction designated and provided for the State by the General Assembly by the establishment of a school of military science and tactics in the University.

Without considering the grave question of the expediency of establishing such a chair in the University, and thereby reversing an historical method which has prevailed in this institution for nearly a hundred years, the reasons which I have given above seem to me of such significance as to compel me to vote in the negative on this proposition.
