---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1917'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1917) September 28, 1917
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 28, 1917

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

I. METEOROLOGY. (Fall Term)II. PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. (Winter and Spring Terms)III. ELEMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIAL MOTORS.IV. TELEPHONY, TELEGRAPHY and SIGNALING, INCLUDING SEARCHLIGHTS.V. NAVIGATION.VI. FIELD ASTRONOMY.VII. AUTOMOBILES: THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND CARE (Fall Term)VIII. TIMBER: CHARACTERISTICS AND USES. (Spring Term)IX. PRACTICAL GERMAN.X. PRACTICAL SPANISH.XI. POLITICAL GEOGRAPHY.XII. PHOTOGRAPHY.XIII. PERSONAL HYGIENE FOR THE SOLDIER.1. INTERNATIONAL LAW AND DIPLOMACY.2. ENGINEERING GEOLOGY.3. PLANE SURVEYING.4. TOPOGRAPHICAL DRAWING.5. MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. James O. Watts,

$2,500.

Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,

500.

Mr. Robert Hall McCormick,

350\. (additional)

Third District,

James A. Leach, Jr.,

Fifth District,

John R. Mooney,

Ninth District,

I. J. Quesenberry.

$200.

to take care of needed assistants in the Engineering Department, as per request of Dean Thornton.

$250.

for the American University Union to be established in Paris.

$559.

for the Modern Language Department, to conduct War courses as follows: 3 machines and records,$ 399.Laboratory Assistant,150.Needles, etc.,10.Total,$ 559.

3 machines and records,

$ 399.

Laboratory Assistant,

150.

Needles, etc.,

10.

Total,

$ 559.

3 machines and records,

$ 399.

Laboratory Assistant,

150.

Needles, etc.,

10.

Total,

$ 559.

It is estimated that the special laboratory fees from the War courses will amount to $450., leaving a net cost to the University of $109.

$125.

for Assistant in Wireless Telegraphy (War course IV.)

3 machines and records,

$ 399.

Laboratory Assistant,

150.

Needles, etc.,

10.

Total,

$ 559.

School of Astronomy:

Assistant,

Philip A. Dales

School of Biology:

Miller Scholar,

A. A. Pegau

Miller Scholar,

W. C. Whitlock

Student Assistant,

Conway Zirkle

Student Assistant,

C. B. Morton, Jr.

Student Assistant,

A. S. Gish

School of Chemistry:

Instructor,

J. H. Robertson

Assistant,

H. W. Easterwood

Assistant,

L. S. Cannon

Student Assistant,

E. H. Swift

Student Assistant,

J. H. Leach

Student Assistant,

K. W. Franke

Student Assistant,

W. E. Pinner

School of Economics:

Assistant,

S. James Hart

School of English Literature:

Instructor,

C. H. Huffman

Instructor,

F. L. Bruce

Student Assistant (Board of Visitors F.)

James Duff

School of Economic Geology:

Instructor,

S. Philip Holt

School of Latin:

Instructor,

E. L. Lehman

School of Mathematics:

Instructor, (Mason Fellow)

Edward T. Browne

School of Physics:

Assistant,

R. B. Hiden

Assistant,

J. M. Nalle

School of Clinical Medicine:

Instructor,

Dudley C. Smith

Instructor,

Thomas H. Daniel

School of Histology and Embryology:

Student Assistant,

G. A. Pagenstecher

School of Pharmacology and Materia Medica:

Student Assistant,

Wm. W. Strange

Student Assistant,

Geo. B. Setzler

School of Physiology:

Student Assistant, (Phys.)

Geo. B. Setzler

Student Assistant, (Phys.)

Wm. W. Strange

Student Assistant, (Physiol. Chem.)

David C. Wilson

Student Assistant, (Physiol. Chem.)

Francis M. Massie

Student Assistant, (Physiol. Chem.)

Roy M. Hoover

Department of Engineering:

Assistants,

Freshman Drawing,

Charles Henderson

Sophomore Drawing,

J. E. B. Stuart, Jr.

Shop Work,

A. S. Wise

Shop Work,

G. W. Crickenberger

Shop Work,

C. P. Livesay

Experimental,

P. F. Brown

Assistant in Civil Engineering,

G. E. Clark

Assistant in Civil Engineering,

S. S. Carroll

Instructor in Physical Culture:

F. D. Woodward

Assistant in Wireless Telegraphy (War Course IV)

Roger G. Wolcott

Rives Fellowship in History,

T. F. Carroll

Henry Coalter Cabell Scholarship

C. H. Huffman

A called meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 10:30 A. M., with the following members present: The Rector, Armistead C. Gordon, Goodrich Hatton, Judge Norton, Wm. H. White, G. R. B. Michie, John W. Craddock, R. Tate Irvine, Robert Turnbull, and President Alderman.

It was ordered that the minutes of the meeting of May 31, 1917 be copied from the journal and sent to the members for review.

President Alderman announced the following gifts, acknowledgment of which had been made in due form:

A letter was read from Mr. Bentley W. Warren, one of the Trustees of the Arthur W. Austin Estate, advising the Board of the resignation of Mr. Endicott as a trustee of said estate, and suggesting the names of Mr. Irvin McDowell Garfield and Mr. Moses Williams as desirable persons to fill the vacancy. The Board chose Mr. Garfield and directed the secretary to so notify Mr. Warren of its action.

It having been brought to the attention of the Board that vacancies in the Thomas Forturn Ryan Scholarships existed in the Third, Fifth and Ninth Districts, by reason of those elected at the May meeting of the Board to fill the scholarships for those districts, have enlisted in the military service of the United States, on motion, the following selection for these districts was made, namely:

In filling the vacancy in the Eighth District, the following offered by Judge Norton was adopted:

RESOLVED: That the Ryan Scholarship for the Eighth Congressional District be transferred from Chas. B. Sullivan to Mr. Charles Bruce Norton, the former having withdrawn from the University, and that all fees chargeable against Mr. Sullivan be mitted, he having been drafted for the army.

Upon recommendation of the President, the Bursar was appointed to account to the War Department for Army property loaned the University for use by the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

On motion, the following appropriations were made:

On motion, the following was unanimously adopted:

Whereas the notice of the purpose to elect a Professor of English Literature has been duly published according to the re- quirements of the Virginia statutes, be it

RESOLVED, That, upon the recommendation of President Alderman, John Calvin Metcalf, M. A., Professor of English Literature in Richmond College, be elected to fill the Poe Memorial Chair of English Literature, made vacant by the resignation of Dr. Chas. Alphonso Smith, at a salary of $3,300. per annum, his duties to begin with the opening of the session of 1917-18.

On motion, the following was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That, upon the recommendation of President Alderman, Mr. Raymond Freas, Ph. D., (Johns Hopkins) be elected Adjunct Professor of Chemistry at a salary of $1,400. per annum, his duties to begin with the session of 1917-18.

Upon the recommendation of the professors of the several schools, and with the approval of the President, the following Assistants, Student Assistants and Scholarship holders were appointed:-

In the matter of refund of fees paid by students who may be drafted for the army, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED: That the release of fees by students who may be drafted be left to the President, with the expression of the Board that as a policy such release be made.

A committee from the Miller Board which was meeting at this hour at the University, was received, and stated that it was desired by the Miller Board that some expression from the committee appointed by the Board of Visitors be had in the matter of the use of a house for the Miller Professor; whereupon, the Rector, Chairman of the Special Committee, was requested to draft a letter to the Miller Board, setting forth the decision of the Committee. The following letter was immediately sent:

I beg to report to your Board through you, that in June last the two committees of the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University met at the Board of Visitors' House, and agreed that the status of the buildings on the grounds known as the "Mallet House", continue unchanged.

The following recommendations of the Academic Faculty, with the approval of the President, were adopted:

1\. Resolved—

That 3 hours in French and 3 hours in German be required for the Vocational B. S. degree (described in the current catalogue, page 157, as the "Bachelor of Science in a Special Subject".)

2\. Resolved—

That Mr. Joseph W. Coxe be allowed to substitute an advanced course in Chemistry for Spanish in his application for the B. S. in Chemistry.

3\. Resolved—

That any student registered in the College prior to the present session may receive credit for Physical Training on the same basis as for Military Training; but that no such student shall receive credit for both.

The following letter and report of the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings was read and ordered spread on the minutes:

Concerning the increased cost of labor and mechanics

1\. The drivers have been raised from 1.00 to 1.25 per day.

2\. Fireman from $30.00 per month to $37.50.

3\. Laborers from $1.25 per day to $1.37 1/2.

4\. The carpenter, brick and plaster worker has quite because we could no compete.

5\. The steam-fitter has been raised from $40.00 per month to $52.00.

6\. All material-lime, cement, hardware, paint, horse feed, sand, stone, etc., has advanced an average of 25 percent during the last three months.

I respectfully urge you to provide a truck for hauling at the University. I have estimated from $2,279. up to $3750. for 2-ton dumping truck. I recommend the one at $3750. which is a Packard or Pierce Arrow, but I will be glad to have the cheapest.

The report was approved and the recommendation relative to purchase of a truck was referred to the President with power to act.

President Alderman read a letter from Mr. Lewis Cass Ledyard, one of the executors of the estate of Colonel Oliver Payne, claiming that the legacy of $ 200,000.00, to the University of Virginia, in the will of Colonel Payne, had been anticipated and settled by the payment to Dr. Alderman, of $250,000.00 as set out in the said letter, which letter reads as follows:

The Executors under the will of Colonel Payne are informed by Mr. Fuller that in or about the month of July, 1917, at the Colonel's country place at West Park, Colonel Payne told Mr. Fuller that in his will he had made a legacy of $250,000. to the University of Virginia, but that he had decided to give that sum presently, instead of waiting until death. Mr. Fuller further states that the next day Colonel Payne gave to you his check for $250,000. for the benefit of the University and said to you substantially what he had said to Mr. Fuller about the provision in his will and about his subsequent decision to make the gift presently.

Colonel Payne was mistaken in his statement to Mr. Fuller as to the amount of the legacy which he had given to the University under his existing will, which was $200,000. and not $250,000. This was the will which was made by him in 1915 and which remained unchanged until his death.

I have no doubt that you will corroborate the statements made as above by Mr. Fuller.

Upon these statements I think it fair to say to you that the Executors are advised that by this transaction the legacy to the University was satisfied, and on their behalf I am writing to ask whether the University is not also of the same opinion, and if so whether it would be willing to file a renunciation of the legacy.

The reason we are asking this question now is that if this payment by Colonel Payne to you and the accompanying statements operated as a satisfaction, it is necessary for us to have that fact established in the various transfer tax proceedings which we will have to institute in connection with his estate.

Dr. Alderman also made a statement to the Board, setting out all he knew about and had done in connection with the case.

Wereupon, the subject was discussed, and it was concluded that further consideration be deferred until a future meeting of the Board.

President Alderman announced that through the beneficience of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a course in International Relations would be offered this session, to be conducted by Professor Lindsay Rogers, Adjunct Professor of Political Science. The $500. gift for the purpose to be distributed as follows: To Professor Lindsay Rogers, $300., to the assistant in Political Science, $125., and for the purchase of books for the Library necessary for the course, $75. The Board approved the foregoing.

Upon the recommendation of the Committee on the organization of new College courses for those contemplating entering the Federal service, beginning with the session of 191718, and with the approval of the President, the following Special War Courses were approved:

A study of the cause and effect of atmospheric conditions, such as to changes of temperature, pressure, winds, humidity, cloud phenomena, precipitation and storms, and their effects on aviation, etc. Weather bureaus and their work, and weather predictions are fully considered. Laboratory work includes the construction and use of meteorological instruments, the construction and interpretation of weather maps, and practical weather forecasting. Lectures and laboratory work to the amount of five lecture hours per week.—Adjunct Professor Giles.

A general course devoted to the consideration of the origin, growth and decay of land forms, the significance of geographic features, and the agencies affecting changes in those features. Oceanography is treatly briefly in the latter part of the course. Laboratory work in the preparation and interpretation of topographic maps, models, etc. Lectures and laboratory work to the amount of five lecture hours per week.— Adjunct Professor Giles.

—Fee $10.00

This course comprises three lectures and four hours of laborato practice per week for the entire year. The first two terms are devoted to a study of the basic principles of electrical engineering with associated laboratory practice on various types of electrical machinery and accessories. The third term is concerned more particularly with the question of choice of equipment, arrangement of controls and general questions concerning the actual installation of suitable units for industrial and special classes of service. The laboratory work of the third term is largely of the nature of solving problems by both analytical and graphical methods.

The course as a whole aims to give a certain familiarity with modern electrical equipemtn, its construction, operation and adaptation to specific purposes. —Professor Rodman.

—Fee $5.00

This course is designed to give considerable facility in the actual operation of telephones, wire and radio telegraphs and signailing systems, with particular emphasis on the apparatus and methods of operation used by the Army and Navy of the United States. One lecture and six hours of practice per week throughout the year are devoted to the course. The practice in telegraphy and signaling is conducted by men experienced in those lines in government service.—Professor Rodman.

—Fee $ 5.00

The object of this course is to train men for service in the United States Merchant Marine, or in the United States Navy. Open to all, even though without previous training in college mathematics. Takes up such questions as: Day's work, Middle-Latitude sailing, Mercators' sailing, Great Circle sailing, Distance from a fixed object, Use of Charts, Latitude, Longitude, Correction of Compass, Sumner lines. Two hours' lectures, one laboratory period. Hours to be arranged. Credit three session hours. —Professor Mitchell.

—Fee $ 5.00

This course will be adapted to meet the needs of the men taking the course. Two lectures, one laboratory period per week. Hours to be arranged. Credit three session hours. —Professor Mitchell.

—Fee $ 10.00

An elementary study of the engine, including combustion and balancing; of the fundamental mechanical problems of automobile design and of the details of construction. The course will be conducted by means of lectures and laboratory work supplemented by reading and written exercises and problems. —Prof. Hancock.

—Fee $2.50

The most important commercial varieties of wood; Their Identification, Distinguishing Characteristics, Mechanical Properties and Uses, with Special Reference to War Conditions. —Professor Jones.

—Fee $ 5.00

A practical course in the German language, designed primarily to give a speaking knowledge of the language. Two hours weekly of lectures throughout the entire session, supplemented by six hours weekly practice on phonographic records. —Professor Faulkner.

—Fee $ 5.00

A practical course in the Spanish language, designed primarily to give a speaking knowledge of the language. Two hours weekly of lectures throughout the entire session, supplemented by six hours weekly practice on phonographic records. —Professor Bardin.

—No Fee.

This course will consist of one lecture a week throughout the session. The fall term will be devoted to the political geography of Germany.—Prof. Faulkner.

Winter term devoted to the political geography of Russia and the Balkans.—Professor Faulkner.

Spring term will be given to the study of political geography of France and Belgium.—Professor Wilson.

—Fee $ 2.50

This course will take one hour of lecture and four hours of laboratory weekly, extending throughout the fall term.

Lectures on Photographic Lenses, Shutters, Exposure, and Chemistry of Photography, Practice in the taking and development of photographs. —Professor Hoxton.

—No Fee.

This course will be offered by the Medical Faculty and will be given one hour a week during the fall term.

In addition to these new courses the Committee believes that the following existing courses in the University will prove both interesting and valuable for students contemplating Federal service.

The nature, sources, development, and rules of international law (with a consideration of the problems of the European War), the causes of war, peace projects of the past, arbitral machinery, problems of the future, and the foregoing policy of the United States. —Adjunct Professor Rogers and Mr. Dingledine.

A course of three lectures a week and three hours for private study. Special emphasis is given to the study of common rock-forming minerals and rocks, building stones and ores. The divisions of dynamical, structural and physiographical geology are covered in considerable detail, and the practical applications of the topics treated to engineering work are pointed out. (Fall, Winter, Spring Terms). —Professor Watson.

—Fee $10.00

Lectures on the theory, uses and adjustments of the Compass level, Transit and Stadia, the Computations of Surveying; the methods and proper conduct of Farm, City, Topographic and Hydrographic surveys. Practical class exercises illustrating the subject matter of the lectures are assigned. With this lecture course goes a practical course in field surveys.

Special emphasis will be laid on practical work in taking topography and contour mapping. This course comprises three lectures per week during the spring term and six hours per week in the field during the same term.—Professor Newcomb.

—Fee $ 3.50

In this course the conventional methods of making topographical maps are carefully taught. Each student is required to become reasonably proficient in the preparation of such maps. Particular attention is paid to the study of contour plans and the solution of problems based on them. (Spring term) —Professor Newcomb.

Four hours of drill and one hour of lectures weekly throughout the entire session. — Colonel Cole.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned subject to the call of the Rector.

I beg to report to your Board through you, that in June last the two committees of the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University met at the Board of Visitors' House, and agreed that the status of the buildings on the grounds known as the "Mallet House", continue unchanged.

Concerning the increased cost of labor and mechanics

1\. The drivers have been raised from 1.00 to 1.25 per day.

2\. Fireman from $30.00 per month to $37.50.

3\. Laborers from $1.25 per day to $1.37 1/2.

4\. The carpenter, brick and plaster worker has quite because we could no compete.

5\. The steam-fitter has been raised from $40.00 per month to $52.00.

6\. All material-lime, cement, hardware, paint, horse feed, sand, stone, etc., has advanced an average of 25 percent during the last three months.

I respectfully urge you to provide a truck for hauling at the University. I have estimated from $2,279. up to $3750. for 2-ton dumping truck. I recommend the one at $3750. which is a Packard or Pierce Arrow, but I will be glad to have the cheapest.

The Executors under the will of Colonel Payne are informed by Mr. Fuller that in or about the month of July, 1917, at the Colonel's country place at West Park, Colonel Payne told Mr. Fuller that in his will he had made a legacy of $250,000. to the University of Virginia, but that he had decided to give that sum presently, instead of waiting until death. Mr. Fuller further states that the next day Colonel Payne gave to you his check for $250,000. for the benefit of the University and said to you substantially what he had said to Mr. Fuller about the provision in his will and about his subsequent decision to make the gift presently.

Colonel Payne was mistaken in his statement to Mr. Fuller as to the amount of the legacy which he had given to the University under his existing will, which was $200,000. and not $250,000. This was the will which was made by him in 1915 and which remained unchanged until his death.

I have no doubt that you will corroborate the statements made as above by Mr. Fuller.

Upon these statements I think it fair to say to you that the Executors are advised that by this transaction the legacy to the University was satisfied, and on their behalf I am writing to ask whether the University is not also of the same opinion, and if so whether it would be willing to file a renunciation of the legacy.

The reason we are asking this question now is that if this payment by Colonel Payne to you and the accompanying statements operated as a satisfaction, it is necessary for us to have that fact established in the various transfer tax proceedings which we will have to institute in connection with his estate.

I beg to report to your Board through you, that in June last the two committees of the Miller Board and the Board of Visitors of the University met at the Board of Visitors' House, and agreed that the status of the buildings on the grounds known as the "Mallet House", continue unchanged.

Concerning the increased cost of labor and mechanics

1\. The drivers have been raised from 1.00 to 1.25 per day.

2\. Fireman from $30.00 per month to $37.50.

3\. Laborers from $1.25 per day to $1.37 1/2.

4\. The carpenter, brick and plaster worker has quite because we could no compete.

5\. The steam-fitter has been raised from $40.00 per month to $52.00.

6\. All material-lime, cement, hardware, paint, horse feed, sand, stone, etc., has advanced an average of 25 percent during the last three months.

I respectfully urge you to provide a truck for hauling at the University. I have estimated from $2,279. up to $3750. for 2-ton dumping truck. I recommend the one at $3750. which is a Packard or Pierce Arrow, but I will be glad to have the cheapest.

The Executors under the will of Colonel Payne are informed by Mr. Fuller that in or about the month of July, 1917, at the Colonel's country place at West Park, Colonel Payne told Mr. Fuller that in his will he had made a legacy of $250,000. to the University of Virginia, but that he had decided to give that sum presently, instead of waiting until death. Mr. Fuller further states that the next day Colonel Payne gave to you his check for $250,000. for the benefit of the University and said to you substantially what he had said to Mr. Fuller about the provision in his will and about his subsequent decision to make the gift presently.

Colonel Payne was mistaken in his statement to Mr. Fuller as to the amount of the legacy which he had given to the University under his existing will, which was $200,000. and not $250,000. This was the will which was made by him in 1915 and which remained unchanged until his death.

I have no doubt that you will corroborate the statements made as above by Mr. Fuller.

Upon these statements I think it fair to say to you that the Executors are advised that by this transaction the legacy to the University was satisfied, and on their behalf I am writing to ask whether the University is not also of the same opinion, and if so whether it would be willing to file a renunciation of the legacy.

The reason we are asking this question now is that if this payment by Colonel Payne to you and the accompanying statements operated as a satisfaction, it is necessary for us to have that fact established in the various transfer tax proceedings which we will have to institute in connection with his estate.
