---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1920'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1920) January 12, 1920
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 12, 1920

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock P. M. with the following members present: the Rector, R. Tate Irvine, and Visitors John Stewart Bryan, E. L. Greever, Harris Hart, Goodrich Hatton, Geo. R. B. Michie, J. K. M. Norton, Alexander F. Robertson, and C. Harding Walker.

The minutes of the meeting of November 21st, copies of which had been sent to each member of the Board and found correct, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

50 shares of Pf stock Riverside & Dan River Cotton Mills from Mr. Robert B. Tunstall, in satisfaction of his father's legacy.

$750 fellowship in Chemistry for 1920-21 from DuPont Powder Company.

500 volumes on Architecture from Rev. Lee M. Dean.

Etchings, engravings and prints from collection of Mr. John Barton Payne (promised).

$1000 legacy of Peter P. Homes for Scholarship in Law School, as per the following extract from his will:

"My executors will pay over to Board of Visitors of University of Virginia ($1,000.00) One Thousand Dollars, to be held in trust by Virginia Trust Company, to establish scholarship in Law School of University of Virginia, to be known as William E. Homes Scholarship. If Board of Visitors will accept same on these terms, it will be most agreeable to my friends and the friends of my father, W. E. Homes."

Pursuant with the foregoing, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the bequest of Peter P. Homes be accepted upon the terms and conditions as set forth in his will, and the said scholarship be established in the Law School of the University and be known as the William E. Homes Scholarship; and That the President be directed to express to Mrs. W. E. Homes the appreciation of the Rector and Visitors of this act of her son.

In accordance with the above resolution, the President wrote Mrs. Homes as follows:

I had word a few days ago from Mr. Herbert W. Jackson, of the Virginia Trust Company, of the clause in the will of your son, Peter P. Homes, leaving $1,000 to the University of Virginia to be used as a scholarship in the Law School. Personally, I want to assure you of the great pride and happiness I have in this action of your find boy whom we all remember here with pleasure and approval. It is an exhibition of the finest spirit, and will, I am sure, stimulate and hearten all of our alumni who remember with effection their Alma Mater. I shall want to call the scholarship the Homes Scholarship, and it will be permanent in our academic life.

The Rector and Visitors direct me to express to you their warm appreciation of this action of your son and their determination to carry out his wishes and to hold in grateful memory his fine deed.

The President stated that Mr. Paul G. McIntire desires to give to the University the sum of $35,000 for the purpose of erecting a statue to George Rogers Clark. It is his wish that the statue be placed in the space east of the old Dispensary. He has already handed the President a check for $15,000 which has been deposited with the Bursar. He wishes the University to handle the details of the work and erection of the statue.

Pursuant with the foregoing, the following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That they do hereby accept with gratitude and appreciation the gift of Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire of the statue of George Rogers Clark.

RESOLVED, further, That the ground near the old Dispensary be designated as the site for this statue, and that a committee, consisting of President Alderman, Professor Kimball, and Dr. Lambeth be appointed to assume charge of the creation and erecti of the statue.

With respect to the admission of women to the University of Virginia, the President presented the following resolution adopted by the President and Faculty of the University of Virginia at a meeting held December 3, 1919, by a vote of 64 to 4, three members not voting.

RESOLVED, That the President and Faculty of the University of Virginia approve of the proposal to admit white women to the Graduate and Professional Schools of the University unde such regulations as the Visitors and the Presicent and Faculty may deem wise and just;

THAT they respectfully recommend to the Rector and Visitors of the University that they take such action as will bring this proposal to the favorable attention of the General Assembly of Virginia.

The matter was considered and disposed of in the following offered by Mr. Hart, and adopted by the following votes; ayes, Bryan, Greever, Hart, Irvine, Michie, Norton, and Walker; nos, Hatton and Robertson.

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That beginning with the session opening in September 1920, mature and properly qualified women be admitted to the graduate and professional schools of the University, subject to such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Board;

That a committee of five consisting of the President and two members of the Faculty, to be selected by him, and two members of the Board of Visitors to be named by the Rector, be appointed to present to the next meeting of the Board such rules and regulations for the consideration of the Board, and that said meeting of the Board be held January 27th at 8 P. M.

A petition of certain members of the faculty not coming under the schedule of those receiving salary increases at the meeting of November 21st, was presented, praying that a similar increase be granted to them. The petition was laid on the table for further consideration and thought.

Upon the recommendation of the President and motion of Mr. Michie, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors appropriate the sum of $500 or so much thereof as may be necessary, to reimburse the library fund for sums paid out in increasing certain salaries in the library staff for the present session.

Mr. Michie stated that it had been brought to his attention that the Law Librarian had been omitted from the list of administrative officers entitled to the 25% increase in salaries as adopted by the Board on November 21st, and moved the following, which was adopted:

RESOLVED, That in applying the 25% increase in salaries to the administrative officers the same be construed to include the Law Librarian.

The following resolution adopted at a meeting of the Education faculty was presented:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors of the University be requested to grant authority to organize the Curry Memorial School of Education into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees.

The above was disposed of in the following resolution, being unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University, That the request of the Curry Memorial School of Education for authority to organize said school into a Department, coordinate with the other professional departments of the University, with power to confer appropriate professional degrees, be and is hereby granted.

The President presented the following letter from the President of the General Athletic Association with respect to the employment of a permanent athletic coach:

At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association concerning the employment of a permanent athletic coach, the following motion was unanimously passed:

"The General Athletic Association of the University of Virginia agrees to pay half the salary of a permanent athletic coach, provided the University of Virginia pays the other half. This salary shall not exceed the maximum salary of a full professor of the University. And if this plan is adopted, the General Athletic Association will pay one half the salary of the Associate Director of Athletics, provided the University pays the other half. It is to be understood that these officers shall be full-time men."

The Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association presents to you this record of its action, in order that you may take whatever action you may see fit thereon.

The foregoing matter was disposed of in the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors appropriate the sum of $2,250 toward the annual salary of a Professor of Physical Training, it being understood that a similar sum be provided by the General Athletic Association for the annual salary of this University officer.

RESOLVED, further, That the sum of $950 be appropriated for the annual salary of an Associate Director of Athletics, it being understood that a similar sum be provided by the General Athletic Association for the annual salary of this University officer. And it is understood that both of these officers shall render full-time service to the institution.

RESOLVED, That a committee, consisting of the President, Mr. Michie and Mr. Robertson, be given power to act in this matter in view of the present urgency.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following resolutions were adopted:

WHEREAS, The Virginia Education Commission in its recent report to the legislature makes the following recommendation: "For the benefit, primarily of teachers, the Commission recommends that the University and other State Institutions of higher learning be placed on a twelve months' basis, offering a summer quarter for men and women of equal grade with any other quarter. This quarter should be divided into two terms of six weeks each, at least one of which terms should be designed to meet the needs of the public school teachers, but both terms should be open to teachers who are in a position to take advantage of the larger opportunity presented," and express the belief that from an economic point of view great physical as well as instructional waste results from the practice of closing certain state institutions during the summer, and such summer quarter offers an unusual opportunity for meeting the imperative need for a larger number of prepared teachers, and

WHEREAS, There is an increasing demand on the part of college students for opportunity to reduce the number of years required to secure their academic and professional degrees, through summer work, such demand finding expression in the increasing number of students each year in the summer session working for college credit, and

WHEREAS, The summer session of 1919 was conducted for two terms with most gratifying results, although for lack of funds, announcement of courses could be made a few days in advance of the opening of the second term, and

WHEREAS, The University desires to serve the State in the fullest measure possible, and, on account of already being on a three-term basis, can very readily adopt a summer quarter without interference with its present organization, therefore, be it

RESOLVED, first, That the Rector and Visitors of the University authorize the President and Director of the Summer School to conduct a regular summer quarter of two sessions of six weeks each, provided sufficient funds can be secured for this purpose;

Second, That the legislature be asked for an additional appropriation of $10,000 annually for the maintenance of such summer quarter.

WHEREAS, The University has conducted a summer session since 1905, the primary purpose of which has been, as announced in its catalogue, "to train teachers for high schools, academies and colleges," and

WHEREAS, both men and women have been admitted to the summer courses on equal terms., and the work of the men, when satisfactorily completed, has been credited toward the degrees conferred by the University, but the women completing the same courses have not been given degree credit in this University, and

WHEREAS, The standards of the Southern Commission on Accredited Schools and all similar agencies require that at least three-fourths of the teachers in accredited high schools shall hold standard college degrees, and this rule is observed by the best high schools in the country, and

WHEREAS, More than two-thirds of the teachers in our public high schools are women who must secure a baccalaureate degree or its equivalent in order to meet the requirements of the best standardizing agencies and be eligible for positions in our best high schools, and

WHEREAS, The State of Virginia appropriated $13,000 annually toward the maintenance of the summer session for the express purpose of providing qualified teachers for the schools of the State, and

WHEREAS, Several hundred of the best Virginia high school teachers go annually to the summer schools of Columbia, Chicago, Harvard, Johns Hopkins and other universities largely because they can secure degrees at these universities for their summer work, and many teachers from other Southern States prefer to come to this university but go elsewhere for the same reason, and

WHEREAS, other colleges and universities all over this country accept the summer school work of the University of Virginia for degree credit, although it is not now accepted by the University itself, and

WHEREAS, the Virginia Education Commission in its recent report to the legislature recommends "For the benefit, primarily of teachers, the University and other State institutions of higher learning be placed on a twelve months' basis, offering a summer quarter for men and women of equal grade with any other quarter. Degree credit shall be allowed for work of appropriate grade done in the summer quarter and for the completion of prescribed courses, degrees shall be conferred."

Therefore, be it

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University, That authority is hereby given to the President and Faculty of the University in their discretion to donfer degrees upon women students of the summer session, who meet the entrance requirements of the University and complete satisfactorily the requirements for such degrees.

The President presented to the Board a plan adopted by certain members of the General Alumni Association for raising a three million dollar endowment fund and the administration of same by the Association. As the plan proposed contained several matters requiring the most careful thought before action could be had by the Board, it was deemed expedient to refer the same to a committee to confer with the General Alumni Association. The Rector, Mr. Michie, and the President were named on said committee.

Upon the recommendation of the President, Dr. Walter A. Klotz, medical director of the Blue Bidge Sanatorium, was elected as associate professor of Phthisio-therapy in the medical faculty of the University.

The application of the Commerce Bank and Trust Company to be designated as one of the depositories of the University was referred to Messrs. Walker and Bryan with power to act.

The Board then adjourned to meet January 27th, at 8 P.M.

I had word a few days ago from Mr. Herbert W. Jackson, of the Virginia Trust Company, of the clause in the will of your son, Peter P. Homes, leaving $1,000 to the University of Virginia to be used as a scholarship in the Law School. Personally, I want to assure you of the great pride and happiness I have in this action of your find boy whom we all remember here with pleasure and approval. It is an exhibition of the finest spirit, and will, I am sure, stimulate and hearten all of our alumni who remember with effection their Alma Mater. I shall want to call the scholarship the Homes Scholarship, and it will be permanent in our academic life.

The Rector and Visitors direct me to express to you their warm appreciation of this action of your son and their determination to carry out his wishes and to hold in grateful memory his fine deed.

At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association concerning the employment of a permanent athletic coach, the following motion was unanimously passed:

"The General Athletic Association of the University of Virginia agrees to pay half the salary of a permanent athletic coach, provided the University of Virginia pays the other half. This salary shall not exceed the maximum salary of a full professor of the University. And if this plan is adopted, the General Athletic Association will pay one half the salary of the Associate Director of Athletics, provided the University pays the other half. It is to be understood that these officers shall be full-time men."

The Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association presents to you this record of its action, in order that you may take whatever action you may see fit thereon.

I had word a few days ago from Mr. Herbert W. Jackson, of the Virginia Trust Company, of the clause in the will of your son, Peter P. Homes, leaving $1,000 to the University of Virginia to be used as a scholarship in the Law School. Personally, I want to assure you of the great pride and happiness I have in this action of your find boy whom we all remember here with pleasure and approval. It is an exhibition of the finest spirit, and will, I am sure, stimulate and hearten all of our alumni who remember with effection their Alma Mater. I shall want to call the scholarship the Homes Scholarship, and it will be permanent in our academic life.

The Rector and Visitors direct me to express to you their warm appreciation of this action of your son and their determination to carry out his wishes and to hold in grateful memory his fine deed.

At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association concerning the employment of a permanent athletic coach, the following motion was unanimously passed:

"The General Athletic Association of the University of Virginia agrees to pay half the salary of a permanent athletic coach, provided the University of Virginia pays the other half. This salary shall not exceed the maximum salary of a full professor of the University. And if this plan is adopted, the General Athletic Association will pay one half the salary of the Associate Director of Athletics, provided the University pays the other half. It is to be understood that these officers shall be full-time men."

The Executive Committee of the General Athletic Association presents to you this record of its action, in order that you may take whatever action you may see fit thereon.
