---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1920'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1920) June 14, 1920
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 14, 1920

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

COLLEGE DEPARTMENT -DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE -SCHOLARSHIPSFELLOWSHIPS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Daniel Harmon Scholarship:

T. Nelson Parker, Richmond, Va.

Virginia Law Review Scholarship:

Randolph Caskie Coleman, Roanoke, Va.

Valentine Birely Scholarship:

William R. Quynn, Frederick, Md.

Henry Coalter Cabell Scholarship:

Frank H. Reade, Alexandria, Va.

Elizabeth B. Garrett Scholarship:

A. C. Gordon, Jr., Staunton, Va.

Bennett Wood Green Sch's:

Edward T. Browne, Stanardsville, Va.

William S. Newton, Norfolk, Va.

William A. Herndon Sch's:

Herbert Lamont Pugh, Crozet, Va.

Caldwell Jackson Stuart, Washington, Va.

Albert W. Summers, Herndon, Va.

Edward F. Kloman, Fargo, N. D.

Geo. F. Cameron, Hope Mills, N. C.

Frank Cox, II, Theological Seminary, Va.

Isabella Merrick Sampson Scholarship:

Henry C. Barksdale, Charlottesville Va.

Isaac Cary Scholarships: Henry Moncure Ware, Richmond, Va.

Andrew Glassell Grinnan, Woodberry Forest, Va.

Lieut. Robert Hancock Wood, Jr., Aviator (U.S.A.) Scholarship:

Philip Allen, Earlysville, Va.

Thompson Brown Scholarship:

William Chandler, Chamberlain, Jr., University, Va.

The annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 10 a.m. with Rector Bryan, and Visitors, Duke, Hart, Hatton, Dillard, Scott, Oliver, Walker and Robertson present.

The minutes of the previous meeting, a copy of which had been sent to each member of the Board, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

From Mr. John B. Cobb, $5,750 for the chemical laboratory.

That a check for $60,000 had been received from Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire for the out-door amphitheatre, announcement of which was made at the April meeting, and that the contract for the building was let on May 27th, after consultation with the committee, to the W. P. Thurston Company of Richmond, Va. for $58,661.00.

That the contract for re-building the old Chemical Laboratory for a Biological Laboratory had been let to the Charlottesville Lumber Company for $31,766.76 plus $231.00 for electric wiring to be paid for by the Biological Laboratory. The action of the committee on rebuilding the old Chemical Laboratory amending the original contract was approved by the Board.

Dr. Julius Goebel, Jr., was elected Acting Professor of Law, as per the following resolution:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Julius Goebel, Jr., is hereby elected Acting Adjunct Professor of Law for the academic year 1920-21, to carry forward the work of Prof. Armistead M. Dobie, who will be on leave of absence for that particular year, at a salary of $2,500, incumbency for the year to begin with the opening of the session in September.

Upon recommendation of the President, Mr. Edward W. Saunders, Jr., was elected Adjunct Professor of Applied Mathematics and Civil Engineering.

The following promotions in the faculty were made:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Graham Edgar, of the School of Chemistry, be and is hereby made Chairman of the Faculty of the School of Chemistry.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Tipton R. Snavely is hereby promoted from Adjunct Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, at a salary of $2,750, incumbency to begin with the session 1920-21.

The following Adjunct Professor, Instructors, Assistants, Student Assistants, Fellowship and Scholarship holders nominated to the President, and approved by him, were ratified by the Board:

Biology:

Conway Zirkle, Instructor.

Chemistry:

L. A. Palmer, Instructor

C. S. Black, Instructor

G. I. Thurmond, Instructor

N. D. Chapman, DuPont Fellow

L. S. Cannon, Fellow

W. O. Swan, Fellow

H. F. Burks, Fellow

A. A. Pegau, Student Assistant

W. R. Dove, Student Assistant

R. M. Warren, Student Assistant

B. B. Owen, Student Assistant

J. C. Lyle, Student Assistant

C. B. Tavenner, Student Assistant

J. M. Porter, Student Assistant

W. T. Jenkins, Student Assistant

A. F. Brock, Student Assistant

P. N. Rhodes, Student Assistant

J. T. Alsop, Student Assistant

E. Preston, Student Assistant

J. P. Daugherty, Student Assistant

C. H. Evans, Student Assistant

G. H. Echols, Student Assistant

R. B. Purdum, Student Assistant

G. J. Parrish, Student Assistant

J. R. Small, Student Assistant

A.C.G. Mitchell, Student Assistant

Economics:

W. R. Morton, Assistant in Accounting.

English Literature:

Armistead C. Gordon, Jr., M.A., Instructor.

William H. Rogers, M.A., Instructor.

Roy L. Garis, B.A., Assistant.

I. J. Quesenberry, Assistant.

M. L. Dinwiddie, Assistant.

McIntire School of Art and Architecture:

Stanislow John Makielski, Instructor

Geology:

A. S. Furcron, Assistant.

J. W. Kisling, Jr. Assistant.

Greek:

J. S. McLemore, Instructor.

Latin:

Lyttleton Waddell, Instructor.

Mathematics:

Wendell M. Coates, B.A. Instructor.

Physics:

T. F. Ball, Adjunct Professor.

Fred Allison, Teaching Fellow.

Romanic Languages:

Robert R. Ball, Instructor.

Wm. Kyle Smith, Instructor.

Armand de Grouchy, Instructor.

Anatomy:

Roy M. Hoover, Instructor.

Bacteriology & Pathology:

Miss Rachel Ash, Technician.

Histology & Embryology:

Monroe J. Epting, Jr., Assistant.

Pharmacology & Materia Medica:

James Edwin Wood, Jr., Instructor.

Physiology & Biochemistry:

James M. Strang, Instructor.

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION -

Benton B. Owen, Instructor.

F. V. Watkins, Instructor.

DuPont Fellowship in Chemistry: Nathaniel D. Chapman, Stanardsville, Va.

Phelps-Stokes Fellowship: Benjamin G. Childs, Charlottesville, V

Rector & Visitors Fellowships:

In English: William H. Rogers, Amelia, Va.

In Eng. Literature: A. C. Gordon, Jr., Staunton, Va.

In Romanic Languages: Fred Nash Ogden, New Orleans, La.

Teaching Fellowships in Chemistry: Lawrence S. Cannon, Charlottesville, Va.

William Orr Swan, University, Miss.

Harry Gray Burks, Bedford, Va.

Robert King Johnson, Pearsburg, Va.

From the applicants for the Ryan Scholarships, the Board made the following elections:

First District - T. L. Cockrell, Reedville, Va.

Second District - H. C. Monroe, Portsmouth, Va.

Third District - J. Barbour Christian, Hanover, Va.

Fourth District - R. B. Pinchbeck, Amelia, Va.

Fifth District - C. H. Allman, Union Hall, Va.

Sixth District - N. J. Painter, Roanoke, Va.

Seventh District - R. L. Jackson, Keswick, Va.

Eighth District - Leslie D. Dawson, Woodbridge, Va.

Ninth District - L. E. Akers, Snowville, Va.

Tenth District - J. S. Cunningham, Basic, Va.

The following prize winners were announced:

Bryan Prize: William Douglas Arant, Atlanta, Ga.

"The Validity of Internation Labor Legislation".

Colonial Dames Prize: Argyle Watson Linington, Short Hills, N. J.

"The Theatre in Colonial Virginia."

Charles Minor Blackford Prize: Gordon B. Ambler, Richmond, Va.

"Enjoining the Publication of Libels."

The question of providing some agency for holding the fund proposed to be raised for the University of Virginia Endowment Fund was disposed of in the following resolution, unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That this Board sees no objection to allowing the present trustees of the Alumni Endowment Fund to hold such funds as may be donated to the endowment fund proposed to be raised.

At the request of Dean Hough, the salary of the Housekeeper at the Hospital was increased with the understanding that said salary shall not exceed $1,000 per annum.

Dr. Sparrow's request for permission to make certain additions to rooms occupied by him on Monroe Hill was referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, with power to act, and with the further request that the Committee make a report on a plan providing houses for University professors.

Dr. Bray's request for living quarters in the University was deferred.

The sum of $250 was appropriated to cover the University's membership fee in the American University Union.

In the matter of granting U. D. C. Scholarships to women students, it was the sense of the Board that the said scholarships be open to women in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Board for the admission of women.

Mr. Scott, of the Committee on Heating, stated that a meeting of the Committee was held in Richmond, at which Dr. Lambeth, Mr. Willis and Mr. Almirall were also present, and that it was practically the unanimous opinion of the meeting that a tunnel should be built this summer and that the plants be consolidated, but that it was yet a question whether or not, in view of the excessive cost of building, the work should be postponed.

The Rector was authorized to appoint a committee of three, of which he should be one, to employ an engineer to draw plans and specifications for the heating plant, and a committee of two from the faculty to advise with them.

The scholarship offer from the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, as per the following communication, was accepted with the thanks of the Board:

The supreme Council of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity most gratefully accept the privilege of petitioning your Honorable Board for the privilege of offering the use of Room 31, West Range, the birth-place of our beloved Fraternity, as a scholarship to deserving members of its organization.

If granted this privilege, the Fraternity agrees to pay to the University the sum of EIGHTY SEVEN DOLLARS as a yearly rental, including light, heat, and attendance for the combined Summer and Winter Sessions.

In offering this scholarship it is the intent and purpose of the Fraternity not only to have the occupant of this room conduct himself as a keeper of a shrine, but also to stimulate a greater interest in the Institution held in such high esteem by all members of our organization.

In the event no member of the Fraternity attending the University avails himself of this privilege, the Fraternity will endeavor to guarantee the occupancy of this room by a bona fide student of the University.

In witness thereof the supreme Council has signed its name and affixed its seal the day above written.

The Rector was authorized to appoint a committee from the members of the Board on University Extension.

On motion of Mr. Scott, a scholarship to be known as a Memorial Scholarship was created for the year 1920-21 with the value of $300, and the same was awarded to Mr. R. Carter Scott, Jrs., of Richmond, Va.

Upon the recommendation of the President, it was RESOLVED, That the new Chemical Laboratory be named "The John B. Cobb Chemical Laboratory".

Upon motion the meeting then adjourned until June 15th, at 9 o'clock.

An adjourned meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present: Rector Bryan, and Visitors Walker, Dillard, Duke, Hatton, Robertson, Scott and Oliver.

The following reports of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds in the matter of the Beta Theta Pi application for permission to erect a fraternity house on the grounds of the University, and the application of Prof. C. M. Sparrow to make certain changes in the Monroe Hill rooms now occupied by him, as set forth in his letter of June 7, 1920 to the President, were approved:

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, to which was referred the application of the Beta Theta Pi for permission to erect a fraternity house on the grounds of the University, recommends that the fraternity be given an option until January 1, 1921 on the lot in the rear of the Kappa Sigma House and fronting on Rugby Road, for the erection of such house. The exact bounds of said lot to be hereafter determined by the Rector and Visitors, and the terms and conditions upon which said lot is to be held and the building erected to be in accordance with those heretofore determined by the Rector and Visitors in other like cases. In case the lot be desired by the fraternity, then the details shall be arranged and embodied in proper documents to be duly executed by the parties.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds unanimously recommends that the application of Prof. C. M. Sparrow, as set forth in his letter of June 7, 1920 to the President, be rejected, and the Committee is unable to make any recommendation which will provide for the remodeling or repairing of the property at this time.

The Committee is of the opinion that it is unwise and inexpedient to permit any professor to remodel or repair any building belonging to the University at the expense of such professor with a stipulation that such professor be reimbursed by the University at any future time.

The Committee further reports that the present system of valuation at which the various pavilions or residences are let to the professors should be revised and the buildings be valued before any general system of housing can be put into effect.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds was requested to investigate the matter of rent of University residences occupied by professors and report to the Board.

In the matter of furnishing bond by the University for the withdrawal of tax-free alchol for use of the University Hospital, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector, John Stewart Bryan, be and is hereby authorized on behalf of the Rector and Visitors to sign a bond for the withdrawal of alchol, free of tax, for use of the University Hospital, and also to sign application for the withdrawal of alchol, free of tax, for use of said Hospital.

The meeting then adjourned.

The supreme Council of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity most gratefully accept the privilege of petitioning your Honorable Board for the privilege of offering the use of Room 31, West Range, the birth-place of our beloved Fraternity, as a scholarship to deserving members of its organization.

If granted this privilege, the Fraternity agrees to pay to the University the sum of EIGHTY SEVEN DOLLARS as a yearly rental, including light, heat, and attendance for the combined Summer and Winter Sessions.

In offering this scholarship it is the intent and purpose of the Fraternity not only to have the occupant of this room conduct himself as a keeper of a shrine, but also to stimulate a greater interest in the Institution held in such high esteem by all members of our organization.

In the event no member of the Fraternity attending the University avails himself of this privilege, the Fraternity will endeavor to guarantee the occupancy of this room by a bona fide student of the University.

In witness thereof the supreme Council has signed its name and affixed its seal the day above written.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, to which was referred the application of the Beta Theta Pi for permission to erect a fraternity house on the grounds of the University, recommends that the fraternity be given an option until January 1, 1921 on the lot in the rear of the Kappa Sigma House and fronting on Rugby Road, for the erection of such house. The exact bounds of said lot to be hereafter determined by the Rector and Visitors, and the terms and conditions upon which said lot is to be held and the building erected to be in accordance with those heretofore determined by the Rector and Visitors in other like cases. In case the lot be desired by the fraternity, then the details shall be arranged and embodied in proper documents to be duly executed by the parties.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds unanimously recommends that the application of Prof. C. M. Sparrow, as set forth in his letter of June 7, 1920 to the President, be rejected, and the Committee is unable to make any recommendation which will provide for the remodeling or repairing of the property at this time.

The Committee is of the opinion that it is unwise and inexpedient to permit any professor to remodel or repair any building belonging to the University at the expense of such professor with a stipulation that such professor be reimbursed by the University at any future time.

The Committee further reports that the present system of valuation at which the various pavilions or residences are let to the professors should be revised and the buildings be valued before any general system of housing can be put into effect.

The supreme Council of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity most gratefully accept the privilege of petitioning your Honorable Board for the privilege of offering the use of Room 31, West Range, the birth-place of our beloved Fraternity, as a scholarship to deserving members of its organization.

If granted this privilege, the Fraternity agrees to pay to the University the sum of EIGHTY SEVEN DOLLARS as a yearly rental, including light, heat, and attendance for the combined Summer and Winter Sessions.

In offering this scholarship it is the intent and purpose of the Fraternity not only to have the occupant of this room conduct himself as a keeper of a shrine, but also to stimulate a greater interest in the Institution held in such high esteem by all members of our organization.

In the event no member of the Fraternity attending the University avails himself of this privilege, the Fraternity will endeavor to guarantee the occupancy of this room by a bona fide student of the University.

In witness thereof the supreme Council has signed its name and affixed its seal the day above written.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, to which was referred the application of the Beta Theta Pi for permission to erect a fraternity house on the grounds of the University, recommends that the fraternity be given an option until January 1, 1921 on the lot in the rear of the Kappa Sigma House and fronting on Rugby Road, for the erection of such house. The exact bounds of said lot to be hereafter determined by the Rector and Visitors, and the terms and conditions upon which said lot is to be held and the building erected to be in accordance with those heretofore determined by the Rector and Visitors in other like cases. In case the lot be desired by the fraternity, then the details shall be arranged and embodied in proper documents to be duly executed by the parties.

The Committee on Buildings and Grounds unanimously recommends that the application of Prof. C. M. Sparrow, as set forth in his letter of June 7, 1920 to the President, be rejected, and the Committee is unable to make any recommendation which will provide for the remodeling or repairing of the property at this time.

The Committee is of the opinion that it is unwise and inexpedient to permit any professor to remodel or repair any building belonging to the University at the expense of such professor with a stipulation that such professor be reimbursed by the University at any future time.

The Committee further reports that the present system of valuation at which the various pavilions or residences are let to the professors should be revised and the buildings be valued before any general system of housing can be put into effect.
