---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1923'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date to consider the question of creating a chair of Pediatrics in the University of Virginia and the election of a professor to fill the same. There were present the Rector, Hon. C. Harding Walker, and Visitors Duke, Greever, McIntire, Oliver and Williams.

President Alderman, being unable to be present, sent a communication to the Board in which he advocated the creation of the chair of Pediatrics and the election of a professor to fill the same, in which he was joined by Dr. Hough, Dean of the Department of Medicine.

On motion duly made and seconded the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, That a chair of Pediatrics be and is hereby established in the Department of Medicine of this University.

On motion, duly made and seconded, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, That Dr. Lawrence T. Royster, (M.D., 1897) of Norfolk, Va., be and is hereby elected Professor of Pediatrics in the University of Virginia upon the following terms and conditions; he is to receive a salary of $4,500 per annum and all fees for his services in the Hospital shall go to the University, except that after one year of service the receipts from fees for his services in the University Hospital, in excess of the assured salary of $4,500 shall be divided between him and the Hospital upon such basis as may be agreed upon between him and the constituted authorities of the University.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.
