---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1924'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
INSTRUCTORS.TEACHING FELLOWS.ASSISTANTSSPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS.
--------------------------------------------------------------

COMMERCE & BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION.

C. N. Hulvey

$800

E. I. Carruthers

600

ECONOMICS.

R. L. Hinds

300

C. L. Knight

400

GREEK.

B. M. Peebles

600

G. W. Shirley

600

MATHEMATICS.

F. A. Wells

2,000

Charles R. Larkin

1,300

ROMANIC LANGUAGES.

O. A. Kirkman

300

M. S. Gibson

600

D. R. Grooms

300

INTERNAL MEDICINE.

J. Edwin Wood, Jr.

1,500

PHYSIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY.

Dr. H. W. Angell

1,200

PHYSICAL TRAINING.

F. V. Watkins

400

M. E. Watkins

200

J. P. Baker

200

CHEMISTRY.

E. B. Freyer

500

BIBLICAL HISTORY & LITERATURE.

F. E. H. McLean

250

CHEMISTRY.

J. Marshall Cole

150

Thos. E. Cabell

150

J. F. Hoffman

150

ENGLISH LITERATURE.

C. C. Wertenbaker, Jr.

200

Lancelot M. Dent

100

GEOLOGY.

J. B. Christian

100

M. G. Hibbert

100

GERMANIC LANGUAGES.

Mrs. W. H. Faulkner

450

MATHEMATICS.

John D. Glenn

600

G. T. Gwathmey

350

PHYSICS.

R. W. McClanahan

200

B. W. Forshee

200

POLITICAL SCIENCE.

J. M. B. Lewis

$300

O. E. Falls, Jr.

300

John Ritchie III

200

ROMANIC LANGUAGES.

H. P. Abney

200

ENGINEERING.

J. E. Glick

270

L. Greaver

180

W. S. Walker

285

O. B. Flannagan

250

D. W. Hesser

350

R. L. Hawkins

200

S. Arakelian

150

E. W. Allen

150

John Selden

50

A. H. Scheck

150

R. L. Hawkins, Field Work 1.60 per hr.

M. G. Hibbert, Field Work 1.00 per hr.

J. S. Parker, Field Work 1.00 per hr.

E. T. Holland, Field Work 1.00 per hr.

J. M. Roberts, Field Work 1.00 per hr.

E. G. Simpson, Field Work 1.00 per hr.

LAW.

W. P. Sandridge, Jr.

120

PHARMACOLOGY:

J. W. Jervey

100

H. W. Patton

100

E. M. McPeak

100

W. J. Rollins

100

H. J. Warthen

100

At the request of Dean Hough, appropriation of to care for the move from old Medical Building; to provide additional equipment for the teaching of Obstetrics; to purchase 54 chairs for use of medical department in Washington Hall Lecture Room.

$3,699.90

For the University of Virginia news Letter

1,701.00

For the renovation of old Gymnasium, so that it may be used as a home for McIntire School of Fine Arts

1,500.00

For Janitor Service for the McIntire School of Fine Arts annually

700.00

For additional Instructor in Mathematics

350.00

For adding a new section in Biology Bl, for instructional service

300.00

For summer work in the office of Dean Lile, of the Law School

250.00

For sewers in connection with the President's house

218.66

For assistant in Geology

200.00

For needed equipment - microscope, anatomical charts - in Education B15

100.00

For Debating Society

100.00

$9,019.56

Architecture B1

$ 30.00

Architecture B2

30.00

Architecture B3

30.00

Art B2

5.00

Art B3

5.00

Art C1

5.00

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the Rector, C. Harding Walker, and Visitors Dillard, Hall, Hull, Scott, Rinehart, and Williams, and President Alderman present.

The minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and mailed to the several members, were approved.

The President announced the attendance for the session to date 1876 as compared with 1807 for the same date last session, and; including Summer Quarter, Extension courses and Nurses in training 5428 as compared with 5020 for the same date last session.

The following gifts were announced, and the President authorized to prepare and mail suitable resolutions to the respective donors:

From Hon. John Bassett Moore, to the Law Library, 19 vols. of Dumot's Corps Diplomatique— rare and valuable—from Edinburg, Scotland.

From Capt. A. O. Calcott, to the Engineering Department, Navy type compound engine, Navy type pump.

From Williams Noyes Whitney, a student of the University of Virginia, valuable books to the Library.

On motion, duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors approve of the action of the President of the University, taken during the summer quarter, in making the following appointments:

Dr. Alfred Chanutin, Associate Professor of Biochemistry at a salary of $3,000.00.

Dr. George Bright Young, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, at a salary of $1,500.00.

Mr. Paul K. Edwards, Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a salary of $2,750.00.

Instructors, Teaching Fellows and Assistants.

On motion, duly made and seconded, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That Edward Watts Saunders, Jr., be promoted from Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics.

On motion, duly made and seconded, the following special appropriations were made:

The President gave expression to his sad duty in announcing to the Rector and Visitors the death, since their last meeting, of Thomas Leonard Watson, Head of the Department of Geology in the University and State Geologist of Virginia, and of Robert French Compton, Professor of Diseases of the Ear, Nose, and Throat, whereupon the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors, having heard with profound regret of the death of Thomas Leonard Watson, Professor of Geology in the Univerand State Geologist of Virginia, and of Robert French Compton, Professor of Diseases of the Ear, Nose and Throat, with to place on record the expression of their appreciation of their high attainments and faithful and skillful services to the University of Virginia, and

That this resolution be spread upon the minutes of the Board and a copy sent to the families of Dr. Watson and Dr. Compton, with the expression of their profound sympathy and good will.

With respect to continuing salary payments to Dr. Watson's widow, on motion duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, That the salary of Dr. Watson be continued to his widow through March 1925.

The President reported that Prof. A. W. Giles, of the School of Geology of the University, had been appointed Acting State Geologist pending the filling of the office permanently.

On motion duly made and seconded, the following were adopted:

Fee changes in courses in Art and Architecture:

RESOLVED, That beginning with the session 1925-26 the laboratory fees in Architecture and Art be as follows:

These fees are to be charged to all students in the courses named whether Virginians or non-Virginians.

Increase in rent of East Range and West Range Dormitories from $72.00 per session to $75.00 per session.

RESOLVED, That the rent for the East Range and West Range dormitories, except those in the Old Club House and Old Gymnasium, be increased from $72.00 per session to $75.00 per session for one occupant. Rent for the other rooms to remain as at present.

Authority for the Rector to execute an agreement between Francis R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers, the Virginia Trust Company and the University of Virginia, transferring certain securities of the James Estate:

RESOLVED, That the Rector be and is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University an agreement between Francis R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers, the Virginia Trust Company and The University of Virginia, transferring certain securities of the James Estate, now held by the personal representatives of Walter H. Taylor, Trustee, deceased, to the Virginia Trust Company, Richmond, Va., which agreement is dated November 26, 1924 in the following words and figures:

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 26 day of November 1924, between FRANCIS R. CURD and HELEN WOOD ROGERS, parties of the first part, VIRGINIA TRUST COMPANY, a corporation, party of the second part, and the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a corporation, party of the third part.

WHEREAS, under the will of the late Edward W. James the University of Virginia, residuary legatee thereunder, became the owner of a large part of the estate of the decedent; and

WHEREAS, under the terms of the said will the parties of the first part, Frances R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers, were left an annuity in the sum of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) a month each, which is a charge upon the estate of the said Edward W. James, now belonging to the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, as security for the payment of said annuities the sum of Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) Has been deposited with Walter H. Taylor as Trustee; and,

WHEREAS, Walter H. Taylor has departed this life and his personal representative desires to be relieved of the trust created by the deposit with him of the said Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98); and,

WHEREAS, the parties of the first part are willing so to relieve his personal representative,

NOW, THEREFORE, THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH:

That for andin consideration of One Dollar ($1.00) cash in hand paid, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and of the covenants and agreements herein contained, which areto be mutually paid, kept and performed, it is agreed that the personal representative of the said Walter H. Taylor, deceased, shall deliver to and deposit with the Virginia Trust Company, as Trustee, the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty- one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) in full discharge and satisfaction ofany obligation on the part of the said Walter H. Taylor, his heirs and assigns, with respect to the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) security above mentioned; to be held by the said Trustee for and during the life or lives of either or both of the said Frances R. Curd or Helen Wood Rogers, as security for the payment of the monthly annuity of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) each, to the parties of the first part, or the survivor during her life as provided in said will, with the right on the part of the said Trustee to invest and reinvest the same; to collect any increase thereof, interest, or return therefrom, and to pay the same, but not the principal thereof, to the University of Virginia so long as the obligation on the part of the University of Virginia to pay the annuities above mentioned are faithfully kept and performed in accordance with the terms of said will of Edward W. James, deceased; and at the death of both of the said annuitants-Frances R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers- to pay over to the University of Virginia, free and clear of any charge or obligation whatsoever, the principal of said Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) so held as security, together with any interest which may accrue thereon remaining unpaid.

WITNESS the following signatures and seals evidencing the consent of the said annuitants to the creation of this trust, the consent of the University of Virginia, and the recognition of the charge against the funds received by it under the will of the late Edward W. James, deceased, and evidencing the acceptance of the trust by the Virginia Trust Company.

Resolution authorizing the Rector to execute an indemnifying bond in favor of the United States of America for the issue of duplicate check;

At a special meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, held November 26, 1924, notice of which had been given to each of the ten members on November 15, 1924, a quorum being present it was

RESOLVED, That C. Harding Walker, Rector, be and he is hereby authorized to execute in behalf of the RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA an indemnifying bond in the sum of $5,100 to the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA for the issue of duplicate check in the sum of $2,550, No. 1247506 drawn on the Treasurer of the United States, dated June 15, 1924, covering semi-annual interest due on that date on First LL Converted 4-1/4% bonds, in favor of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the original check having been lost, stolen, or destroyed.

Resolution, authorizing President to execute contract with the U. S. Veteran's Bureau covering instruction to students of said Bureau;

RESOLVED, That President E. A. Alderman be and is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia a contract dated September 16, 1924 with the U. S. VETERAN'S BUREAU, and that the Secretary, E. I. Carruthers, its authorized to affix thereto the seal of the corporation.

Report on State Teachers Scholarship Fund and Resolution concerning its operation in the future:

RESOLVED, That the annual appropriation of $5,000 be distrubited so as to provide fifty scholarships of $100 each;

That the Bursar of the University be authorized to proceed with the collection in accordance with the provision of the law upon receipt from the chairman of the committee on scholarships of a list of former students who have failed to discharge their obligation to the State by serving as teachers or administrative officers in the public schools of Virginia:

That funds so collected shall become available for additional scholarships in succeeding sessions on the above basis.

Appointment of a Committee to draft regulations of motor traffic in the University.

RESOLVED, That a Committee of three, consisting of Mr. Rinehart, Dr. Lambeth and Mr. Lile, be appointed to prepare traffic regulations to be considered by the Board at the next meeting.

Mr. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, made verbal report on the status of the Katherine B. Blackwood, Cora B. Williams, Este Coffinberry and Willis Johnson bequests, and requested that the following action be taken in the Williams bequest, same being adopted;

RESOLVED, That in the matter of the bequest of $10,000 by Mrs. Cora B. Williams this bequest be gratefully accepted, and that the Executor of the said estate be and is hereby requested to turn over said sum to the Bursar in cash. Said $10,000 to be invested and the income derived therefrom applied to the purpose set forth in the will of said Mrs. Williams; that portion of said will applicable to this bequest being as follows:

"I give and bequeath to the University of Virginia the sum of $10,000 to be known as the Jesse Parker Williams Scholarship; the said sum to be invested by the governing body of said University and its successors, the avails of said sum so invested to be applied to the maintenance and education of a student at said University; the beneficiary to be a resident of the State of North Carolina, and to be selected by the President of the Faculty of the University of Virginia."

On the recommendation of the President Mrs. Abraham Berglund was appointed manager of the Faculty Apartment House at a salary of $20 per month, and an appropriation of $50 made for cleaning and materials.

Application of Pi Mu of Phi Chi was received for site on which to erect a fraternity house. Same was referred to the Committee on Buildings & Grounds.

On motion of Mr. Hall, duly seconded, it was

RESOLVED, That the Committee on Buildings & Grounds be requested to consider and report at the next meeting of this Board, on the policy to be followed by the Board in the future with respect to granting sites for fraternity houses on University grounds.

Dr. John A. Hornsby, Sup't of the University Hospital submitted a report on the improvements being made at the Hospital, and also appeared in person to give more detailed information thereon. This report was referred to a special committee consisting Messrs. Rinehart and Scott to study and report to the Board.

The Special committee on establishment of laundry at the hospital, having completed its work, was, on motion, discharges.

H. L. Spratt, lessee of the University's coal bins, brought to the attention of the Board the question of the right of D. Ellis Brown, Graduate Manager of Athletics, to engage in the coal business in competion with him. The question was referred to the Committee on Buildings & Grounds to report.

The Bursar submitted reports covering the fiscal year ended June 30, 1924 and for the first four months of the present year, which were discussed, and the annual report being ordered printed with the usual tables and schedules.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.

That for andin consideration of One Dollar ($1.00) cash in hand paid, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and of the covenants and agreements herein contained, which areto be mutually paid, kept and performed, it is agreed that the personal representative of the said Walter H. Taylor, deceased, shall deliver to and deposit with the Virginia Trust Company, as Trustee, the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty- one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) in full discharge and satisfaction ofany obligation on the part of the said Walter H. Taylor, his heirs and assigns, with respect to the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) security above mentioned; to be held by the said Trustee for and during the life or lives of either or both of the said Frances R. Curd or Helen Wood Rogers, as security for the payment of the monthly annuity of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) each, to the parties of the first part, or the survivor during her life as provided in said will, with the right on the part of the said Trustee to invest and reinvest the same; to collect any increase thereof, interest, or return therefrom, and to pay the same, but not the principal thereof, to the University of Virginia so long as the obligation on the part of the University of Virginia to pay the annuities above mentioned are faithfully kept and performed in accordance with the terms of said will of Edward W. James, deceased; and at the death of both of the said annuitants-Frances R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers- to pay over to the University of Virginia, free and clear of any charge or obligation whatsoever, the principal of said Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) so held as security, together with any interest which may accrue thereon remaining unpaid.

WITNESS the following signatures and seals evidencing the consent of the said annuitants to the creation of this trust, the consent of the University of Virginia, and the recognition of the charge against the funds received by it under the will of the late Edward W. James, deceased, and evidencing the acceptance of the trust by the Virginia Trust Company.

That for andin consideration of One Dollar ($1.00) cash in hand paid, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and of the covenants and agreements herein contained, which areto be mutually paid, kept and performed, it is agreed that the personal representative of the said Walter H. Taylor, deceased, shall deliver to and deposit with the Virginia Trust Company, as Trustee, the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty- one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) in full discharge and satisfaction ofany obligation on the part of the said Walter H. Taylor, his heirs and assigns, with respect to the Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) security above mentioned; to be held by the said Trustee for and during the life or lives of either or both of the said Frances R. Curd or Helen Wood Rogers, as security for the payment of the monthly annuity of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) each, to the parties of the first part, or the survivor during her life as provided in said will, with the right on the part of the said Trustee to invest and reinvest the same; to collect any increase thereof, interest, or return therefrom, and to pay the same, but not the principal thereof, to the University of Virginia so long as the obligation on the part of the University of Virginia to pay the annuities above mentioned are faithfully kept and performed in accordance with the terms of said will of Edward W. James, deceased; and at the death of both of the said annuitants-Frances R. Curd and Helen Wood Rogers- to pay over to the University of Virginia, free and clear of any charge or obligation whatsoever, the principal of said Thirty-seven Hundred and Twenty-one Dollars and Ninety-eight Cents ($3721.98) so held as security, together with any interest which may accrue thereon remaining unpaid.

WITNESS the following signatures and seals evidencing the consent of the said annuitants to the creation of this trust, the consent of the University of Virginia, and the recognition of the charge against the funds received by it under the will of the late Edward W. James, deceased, and evidencing the acceptance of the trust by the Virginia Trust Company.
