---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1927'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Gifts:
------

For purchase of car for Department of Education

$ 200

For inter-collegiate debating

100

For addressograph for Quarterly Review

870

For additional salary of Dr. W. H. Stouffer, Research Assistant in Economics

600

$1,770

Close approximate Cost

2

300 H. P. Water Tube boilers set up on foundations

$23,000.00

Smoke Breeching for the above

1,600.00

1

Blow-off Tank

250.00

2

Stokers (Double Retort) set up with all connections

9,570.00

1

150 ft. Radial Brick Chimney with foundation

6,020.00

2

Boiler Feed Pumps

1,050.00

Pipe, Fittings, Valve, Labor, Expenses and Sundries

12,100.00

Covering for Piping and Breeching

3,000.00

Extension of Power House Building

20,000.00

Engineering and Commission

8,400.00

Total

$84,990.00

In 1894 the trustee, James W. Warren, submitted a schedule of the estate showing stocks and bonds of the value of

$323,933.00

Real Estate

26,300.00

Claims against estate of orority

7,000.00

Deposits with Hospital Life Insurance Co.

80,000.00

Cash on hand

4,225.00

Total value of

$441,458.00

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 p.m., with Messrs. Walker, Hull, Williams, Mrs. Munford and President Alderman present.

The minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and sent to the members were approved.

The President made the following announcements:

Enrollment for the present session 2154.

From certain New York legal alumni, through Mr. Joseph M. Hartfield, $1,000, to tide the Virginia Law Review over its present financial difficulties.

From the will of the late Judge Shepard Barclay bequest of $500.

From Mr. C. T. Edgar of New York City, "Deborah" a Carrara marble life-size statue, purchased in Rome, at a cost of $5,000.

From Mr. Lewis C. Williams, of Richmond, Virginia, six copied of "What Price Progress".

From Mr. A. F. Robertson, Acting Superintendent of School of Albemarle County, to the Heck Memorial Library, a twelve volume set of "The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of religious Knowledge".

From Hon. John Bassett Moore, to the Law Library 93 volumes on International Law.

From Mr. A. B. Cocke, of Richmond, Virginia, to the Library, about 200 volumes, chiefly German and French Classics in the original.

From Mr. F. C. Blandy, check for $5,000 promised last July, for use in connection with Blandy Experimental Farm. (He wishes no publicity given to this matter).

From Mr. Edwin DeT. Bechtel a lithograph of President Eliot based upon the study and drawing of Mr. Boardman Robinson, the artist.

The President presented the following resignations which were accepted and adopted, the resolutions shown respectively.

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept with regret the resignation of Mr. Harold H. Neff, Professor of Law. Mr. Neff has carried forward his work with devotion, high purpose, and good results at this University, and the Rector and Visitors wish him continued success in his new field.

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept with regret the resignation of Dr. W. S. A. Pott, Associate Professor of Philosophy. Dr. Pott has carried forward his work with devotion and skill at this University, and the Rector and Visitors wish him continued success in his new field.

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept with regret the resignation of Dr. Robert N. Pease, Associate Professor of Chemistry. Dr. Pease has carried forward his work with ability and energy at this University, and the Rector and Visitors wish him continued success in his new field.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following members of the teaching staff were elected:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Raphael Semmes be and is hereby elected Associate Research Professor of History for a five-year period, in the University of Virginia, at a salary of $3,500, incumbency to begin mid-September, 1927.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Mr. Wyllie Kilpatrick be and is hereby elected Research Associate Professor in the Institute of Social Sciences, in the University of Virginia, for a period of two years, at a salary of $3,600, incumbency to begin September 1, 1927.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Mr. Charles P. Nash, Jr., be and is hereby elected elected Assistant Professor of Law in the University of Virginia, from January to June 14, 1927, at a salary of $2,000, to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Harold H. Neff, Professor of Law, resigned.

The following Special Appropriations were made:

The President announced the establishment of the D. J. Hennessy Scholarship available to residents of Silver Bow County, Montana, and upon motion the following action was taken:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the D. J. Hennessy Scholarship, stipend $500.00, be established in the University under conditions acceptable to the academic and professional faculties.

The Rector stated that due to the absence of Messrs. Rinehart and McIntire, the members of the Building Committee on Medical Buildings, were absent from the University and were not expected to return until some time in April; and that as the plans for the said building are about completed and it is desirable that they should be acted upon without delay; and as Mr. Rinehart has requested that Mr. Hull be appointed to serve on the committee in his place until his return, and believing that Mr. McIntire would desire similar action to be taken in his case, he had designated Mr. Hull to act in the place of Mr. Rinehart until his return and Mr. Lewis Williams to act in place of Mr. McIntire until his return.

Resolutions adopted concerning the Medical Buildings:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the employment of the firm of Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch and Abbott of Boston, as the architects for the new medical group be and hereby is ratified and approved, and that the Committee of Medical Buildings is hereby authorized and directed to enter into written contract on behalf of this Board covering the terms of such employment.

Copy of a letter from Dr. Bean:

Your committee on the New Medical Buildings recommends to the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authorize their Buildings Committee to enter into an agreement to carry forward the construction of the Central Heating Plant for the New Medical Building in accordance with the proposals submitted by Mr. J. A. Almirall, hereto attached. The proposals include one boiler for the University and a building for the whole former plant to inclose another boiler and electrical equipment for lighting the University, therefor the University is to pay $35,000 and the Medical Building Fund is to pay $50,000. The Medical Building Fund will loan $35,000 to the University to be repaid later.

RESOLVED, That the Board approves the location and general plans of the New Medical School Building as submitted by Messrs. Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch and Abbott, and gives it approval to the changes in the Hospital and "Post Office" buildings necessitated by the location and arrangement as well as to the specific plans of the Medical School Building in so far as they have developed at this time.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the committee on Medical Buildings is hereby authorized to secure bids and let contract for the erection of a new laundry building according to location and plans therefor submitted by Messrs. Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch and Abbott. architects, at a cost not exceeding $15,000.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors, That the Medical Buildings Committee be authorized to enter into a contract with Messrs. Almirall and Company for additions to power plant at the approximate price of $85,000, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Medical Buildings Committee.

The Rector and Visitors being of opinion that it will be more economical and satisfactory to have provision made for additional light, heat and power facilities for the University at large, when additions are being made to the Power Plant for the Medical unit as suggested by report of Dr. Bean submitting the proposal of Almirall & Co.

Therefore be it resolved that the entire cost of the additions to the Power Plant be paid out of the fund known as the Medical Buildings Fund, with the understanding that as soon as an appropriation for the power plant is available, that the Medical Building Fund shall be reimbursed for the amount expended in excess of $50,000.

RESOLVED, That the Committee on Medical Buildings is authorized to secure bids for the erection of a fire proof construction medical kitchen and dining room building according to plans therefor prepared by Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch and Abbott, architects, and submitted for the Board's inspection, on the location south of the McIntire Wing, recommended by said architects, and report to the next meeting of the Board.

We, the undersigned Committee, after discussion with Mr. J. A. Almirall desire to submit our approval of his plan for the Central Power Plant to take care of the needs of the New Medical Buildings as outlined in his letter to Dr. R. Bennett Bean dated March 1, 1927, which letter is hereto attached.

R. Bennett Bean, Chairman of Faculty Medical Building Committee acting for the Committee.

W. A. Lambeth, Sup't of Buildings and Grounds.

J. L. Newcomb, Assistant to President.

March 1, 1927.

At the meeting which the writer had with you yesterday morning, relative to the installation of new boiler at Central Power Plant, he left with you the two letters dated February 9th and February 11th which had previously been written concerning this subject.

The writer went into further details with you yesterday as to the practical impossibility of going shead on the basis of installing at the present time only one unit of water tube boilers.

Such boilers, different from horizontal bubular boilers, must be thoroughly cleaned not less often than every two months and preferably every month and to do so there must always be one apare unit which absolutely necessitates the installation at this time of 300 horse power boiler units.

The writer also went into some further details of the loss there would be in spending such a considerable sum for temporary work which would have to be thrown out and discarded as useless within the next year or eighteen months.

Supplementing the letter which was handed you yesterday setting forth a budget for the installation of one 300 H. P. water tube boiler with various temporary appurtenances, we are submitting herewith a close approximate budget for the installation of two such boiler units, with permanent brick stack, completion of permanent Power House Building and sundry other items detailed below.

Trusting that we may have your approval to proceed along the above lines, we are,

The President presented a memorandum of agreement and gift by and between the New York Southern Society and the University of Virginia establishing the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT AND GIFT dated as of the day and year hereinafter set forth by and between the NEW YORK SOUTHERN SOCIETY, of the City of New York, party of the first part, hereinafter called the "Society" and UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA of the State of Virginia party of the second part, hereinafter called the "Institution" establishing the ALGERNON SYDNEY SULLIVAN AWARD.

When the New York Southern Society was formed, its foundation and its success were chiefly due to the action and influence of Algernon Sydney Sullivan.

The Society has no been in existence for many years; it has become one of the institutions of New York; it has been of service in countless ways to Southern men in that city; it has formed a bond between them; it has kept alive that spirit of companionship and of love for and loyalty to their old homes which without it might have lost much of its force.

The Society has not forgotten and can never forget what it owed in its origin to him who, though he was a Southerner by descent only, may properly be called its Founder. Nor can those who were privileged to know him and who still survive, forget what manner of man he was, nor fail to remember with love and admiration those high qualities of heart and mind which gave him the almost unique position which he occupied in the community in which he lived. It was those qualities which led him to do what he did for Southern men in New York; it was those qualities which won for him a position which enabled him to do it.

Recognizing how much it especially owed to him the Society is desirous of perpetuating the memory of Algernon Sydney Sullivan's life in such form as shall be most expressive of his character and shall, so far as is possible, recognize and encourage in others those same principles of love for and service to men which were his dominant characteristics.

To this end the New York Southern Society has had Medallions prepared which in design and vording suggest the beautiful spiritual qualities which Mr. Sullivan possessed. It has also had prepared a printed document of Certificate of Award which contains explanations and quotations and it contemplates having prepared a Biographical Volume about Mr. Sullivan.

Said Society hereby presents to said Institution seventy-five Medallions, seventy-five Frames for said Certificates and two-hundred Certificates, with the request and understanding that they be held, awarded and presented in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth, and further, that if at any time or times hereafter the Society or other person or persons renew the supply of any or all of said articles, or make provision by a gift or money or otherwise whereby any or all of said articles, including said Biographical Volume, may be available for the purposes named in this Agreement, then said Institution shall continue to make such awards so long as said articles, or satisfactory substitutes for them, shall be available.

Furthermore, in consideration of the sum of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00), paid by said Society to said Institution, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Institution agrees to have the names of the recipients engraved upon the Medallions when awarded and frames put upon the accompanying Certificates at the same time and to pay the cost thereof.

Details of this arrangement will be found in the Memorandum of Information hereto attached.

It is further agreed and understood that:

FIRST: The name of the Award shall be the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award.

SECOND: The Award may be made to three persons in each year but not more than three, that is to say, to not more than one man and one woman of the graduating class of the Institution for that year, and one other person who is not a student of the Institution, who need not be a graduate of any College or University, but who shall have some interest in, association with or relation to said Institution, official or otherwise, of a nature to make this form of recognition by said Institution obviously appropriate and insure his or her proper appreciation of the same.

The award shall consist of a Medallion, measuring approximately eight inches wide and fourteen inches high, and similar in design to that shown in the illustration attached hereto, together with a framed Certificate of Award containing an explanation and quotations, an unframed copy of which is hereto attached, and such personal and private letter as the Institution may wish to give. The Society regards the framed Certificate as of an importance in effecting the purpose of the Award equal to that of the Medallion and hopes that it will always be given equal prominence by the recipients.

The Award is to be accompanied by a copy of an Algernon Sydney Sullivan Biographical Volume, when such volumes are available.

The recipients of the Award shall be chosen by the Faculty of the Institution with or without the advice, co-operation or assistance of members of the student body by such method as the Faculty shall deem practical and suited to securing the best results.

In the selection of the recipients nothing shall be considered except the possession of such characteristics of heart, mind, and conduct as evince a spirit of love for and helpfulness to other men and women. If in any year the Faculty shall be of the opinion that no member of the graduating class has displayed the required qualities so conspicuously as to merit the Award, no Award shall be made to students for that year, for it is intended and desired that the Award shall be a real distinction to be conferred only upon those who conspicuously deserve it, not merely in comparison with their fellow students but by the possession, judged by an absolute standard, of those qualities before mentioned. The same basis in judgment shall control in the cases of other persons who are not students of the Institution.

THIRD: The Institution shall keep a record of the awards made, the names of the recipients, the dates of Awards, and the grounds on which they are in each instance made, and shall annually give to the Society a copy of the record that year.

FOURTH: The Society and the Institution may by agreement together modify any of the provisions of this Agreement, provided that:

(a) the name of Algernon Sydney Sullivan be retained.

(b) the spiritual value of a strong and beautiful character such as Mr. Sullivan's be clearly indicated;

(c) the general purpose of the Award which is to recognize and encourage qualities which produce such a character, be preserved.

FIFTH: The Institution is in entire accord with the spirit and purpose of the Society, as hereinbefore expressed, and is interested in the method proposed for making them effective, and the Institution accepts the Medallions, other articles, and money hereby donated in accordance with the foregoing provisions, and covenants and agrees that it will faithfully administer the same and endeavor to carry out the spirit of this Agreement in accordance with the stipulations hereinbefore set forth.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Society and the Institution have respectively, each for itself, caused these presents to be signed by its officers thereunto duly authorized and its corporate seal to be hereto affixed, as of the eighth day of April, 1927.

NEW YORK SOUTHERN SOCIETY.

By Robert Adamson President.

Attest:

Unlon Cashon Secretary.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By Edwin A. Alderman, President.

Attest:

E. I. Carruthers, Secretary.

The Bursar presented the following matters in connection with the Arthur W. Austin Bequest:

A history of the Bequest from the date of Arthur W. Austin's death to the present time:

Under the will of Arthur W. Austin, of Milton, State of Massachusetts, who died in 1884 the University of Virginia was made residuary legatee of his entire estate, with the exception of several small individual legacies, with his daughter Mary Austin as life annuitant to receive the income from the said estate. The estate at that time consisted of stocks, bonds and mortgages, and several pieces of real estate, with an estimated value of $470,000, as reported to the Board of Visitors by Colonel Duke at a meeting September 12, 1884, but no schedule of the items was attached.

In January, 1896 William Endicott and Bentley W. Warren were appointed substitute trustees for James W. Austin, since which date annual reports in great detail have been made and which are on file in my office. Upon the death of Mr. Endicott in 1917 Mr. Irvin McD. Garfield was substituted in his stead.

During the years of the trust the real estate has been disposed of, some of which proved of much less value than it was inventoried at. There were two or three pieces consisting of residential properties located in the business section of Boston which had to be disposed of at best prives obtainable The estate appears to have been well managed throughout the forty-three years of its trust.

The estate has a present value of approximately $445,000, all in stocks, bonds and cash.

In the early years of the devise the Rector and Visitors made an effort to have the estate commuted, but after several attempts to do so without result, it was abandoned.

In 1901 Mrs. Mary Austin Carroll, the life annuitant, agreed of her own volition, to surrender to the University the entire income annually from the estate with the exception of $5,000 annually which she reserved to herself. This agreement became effective April 1, 1902, since which date the University has received over $275,000 as income.

Mr. Carroll died in 1901, and a few years later the widow married Timothy J. McLaughlin. Mrs. McLuaghlin died December 18, 1926, ending the life tenancy of the agreement entered into with the University.

The trustees have been shaping up the securities, having the stocks registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors to facilitate delivery, and I have been advised that they are now ready to make delivery of the corpus of the estate, to the University.

However, there are three matters requiring action by this Board.

1\. Question of income accrued on the deposit with the Hospital Life Insurance Company for the benefit of Mrs. McLaughlin from July 1, 1926 to December 18, 1926.

2\. Release of some portion of the estate, or income to the husband, Timothy J. McLaughlin in response to the request made by Mrs. McLaughlin to meet a mortgage of $18,000 on her home property.

3\. Transfer of the estate

I beg to present the following resolutions which have been prepared either by the trustees or myself in dealing with the matters.

Respectfully submitted, E. I. Carruthers, Bursar.

The Board adopted the following resolution releasing to the executor of the will of Mrs. Mary A. McLaughlin the accrued income on the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company Contract:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That C. Harding Walker, Rector, be and hereby he is authorized and directed to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a communication in the following form to Bentley W. Warren and Irvin McD. Garfield, Trustees u/w Arthur W. Austin, late of Milton, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, viz.:

To Bentley W. Warren and Irvin McD. Garfield, Trustees u/w Arthur W. Austin, late of Milton, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

The undersigned, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, as residuary legatee under the will of said Arthur W. Austin, hereby requests and authorizes you to pay to the Executor of the will of Mary Austin McLaughlin (born Mary Austin) all income, which we understand to be approximately $1442.47, accrued for the year 1926 upon contract No. 4812 (G.) between the Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company and said Arthur W. Austin with respect to the principal sum of $30,000., dated February 15, 1879, to the extent that such income may come into your hands or possession as such Trustees from Howard Stockton, Jr. or any successor to him as Administrator, d.b.n. c.t.a. of said Arthur W. Austin, said Mary Austin McLaughlin being prior to her death on December 18, 1926 the beneficiary of said trust fund and the person who would, had she lived until January first, have been entitled to said accrued income.

A request had come to the Board from Mrs. Mary A. McLaughlin that the University make a contribution of $18,000 to pay off a mortgage on her property. The Bursar was requested to get all the information he could concerning the financial condition of her husband and report to the next meeting of the Board

A resolution was adopted authorizing the Bursar to receive from Bentley W. Warren and Irvin McD. Garfield, present trustees under the will of Arthur W. Austin, the securities and cash belonging to the corpus of the estate, together with any cash income thereon remaining in their hands, sign and deliver to them a receipt therefor in the following form:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the Bursar of the University be and he is herebyauthorized to receive from Bentley W. Warren and Irvin McD. Garfield; present trustees under the will of Arthur W. Austin, late of Milton, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, deceased, the securities and cash belonging to the corpus of the estate, together with any cash income thereon remaining in their hands, sign and deliver to them a receipt therefor in the following form:

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA hereby acknowledge the receipt from Bentley W. Warren and Irvin McD. Garfield, present Trustees under the will of Arthur W. Austin, late of Milton, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, deceased, of a certified copy of said will and of the codicils thereto as proved and allowed in the Probate Court for the County of Norfolk in said Commonwealth, and the receipt of the certificates of stock set forth in the list hereto annexed marked Appendix A, and the receipt of the bonds and other evidences of indebtedness (together will all unmatured coupons) set forth in the list hereto annexed marked Appendix B, both said appendices being hereby referred to as a part of this receipt. Said certificates and the shares of stock or beneficial interest evidenced thereby in the corporations, associations and trusts therein named and said bonds and other evidences of indebtedness of the governmental agencies and corporations named in said Appendix B are received by said University of Virginia as residuary legatee of said Arthur W. Austin in accordance with the second codicil dated May 14, 1883 to his said will dated December 10, 1880, and constitute, as shown by the Ninth Account of said Trustees, the entire residuary estate, with the exception of cash, now held by them. Said University also hereby acknowledges the receipt from said Trustees of their cheque on the State Street Trust Company for $       bring the balance of uninvested cash on account of principal in their hands, appearing in said Trustees' Ninth Account as Item of Schedule B., and cheque of said Trustees on the State Street Trust Company for $      , being the balance of cash on account of net income in their hands, appearing in said Trustees' Ninth Account as Item       of Schedule E.

In consideration of the delivery of said stocks, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness, and payment of said balance at this time and prior to the final audit and assessment of said Trustees' returns to the Government of the United States and of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts with respect to taxes upon income or capital assets, and prior to the settlement of any taxes claimed by either Government or by any State of the United States to be due from said Trustees in consequence of such audits and assessments, said University of Virginia agrees, from the property and money now received from said Trustees, to indemnify and save them and each of them harmless against personal liability for the payment of any such taxes or for penalties for the non-payment thereof, and all expenses properly incurred in connection therewith, provided that they promptly and seasonably notify said University of the assessment or levy of such taxes.

RESOLVED, Further, That the securities and uninvested cash received from the trustees of the Arthur W. Austin bequest be deposited with the Trust Department of the Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, and a schedule of the same be reported to the Finance Committee for its use in making sales of such of the securities as may be deemed advisable and reinvesting of the proceeds of same together with any cash that may be received as part of said estate, and that a schedule of the securities with their present market values, and the cash belonging to said estate be reported to this Board at its next meeting for recording on the minutes.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.

Your committee on the New Medical Buildings recommends to the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authorize their Buildings Committee to enter into an agreement to carry forward the construction of the Central Heating Plant for the New Medical Building in accordance with the proposals submitted by Mr. J. A. Almirall, hereto attached. The proposals include one boiler for the University and a building for the whole former plant to inclose another boiler and electrical equipment for lighting the University, therefor the University is to pay $35,000 and the Medical Building Fund is to pay $50,000. The Medical Building Fund will loan $35,000 to the University to be repaid later.

Close approximate Cost

2

300 H. P. Water Tube boilers set up on foundations

$23,000.00

Smoke Breeching for the above

1,600.00

1

Blow-off Tank

250.00

2

Stokers (Double Retort) set up with all connections

9,570.00

1

150 ft. Radial Brick Chimney with foundation

6,020.00

2

Boiler Feed Pumps

1,050.00

Pipe, Fittings, Valve, Labor, Expenses and Sundries

12,100.00

Covering for Piping and Breeching

3,000.00

Extension of Power House Building

20,000.00

Engineering and Commission

8,400.00

Total

$84,990.00

At the meeting which the writer had with you yesterday morning, relative to the installation of new boiler at Central Power Plant, he left with you the two letters dated February 9th and February 11th which had previously been written concerning this subject.

The writer went into further details with you yesterday as to the practical impossibility of going shead on the basis of installing at the present time only one unit of water tube boilers.

Such boilers, different from horizontal bubular boilers, must be thoroughly cleaned not less often than every two months and preferably every month and to do so there must always be one apare unit which absolutely necessitates the installation at this time of 300 horse power boiler units.

The writer also went into some further details of the loss there would be in spending such a considerable sum for temporary work which would have to be thrown out and discarded as useless within the next year or eighteen months.

Supplementing the letter which was handed you yesterday setting forth a budget for the installation of one 300 H. P. water tube boiler with various temporary appurtenances, we are submitting herewith a close approximate budget for the installation of two such boiler units, with permanent brick stack, completion of permanent Power House Building and sundry other items detailed below.

Trusting that we may have your approval to proceed along the above lines, we are,

Your committee on the New Medical Buildings recommends to the President that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authorize their Buildings Committee to enter into an agreement to carry forward the construction of the Central Heating Plant for the New Medical Building in accordance with the proposals submitted by Mr. J. A. Almirall, hereto attached. The proposals include one boiler for the University and a building for the whole former plant to inclose another boiler and electrical equipment for lighting the University, therefor the University is to pay $35,000 and the Medical Building Fund is to pay $50,000. The Medical Building Fund will loan $35,000 to the University to be repaid later.

Close approximate Cost

2

300 H. P. Water Tube boilers set up on foundations

$23,000.00

Smoke Breeching for the above

1,600.00

1

Blow-off Tank

250.00

2

Stokers (Double Retort) set up with all connections

9,570.00

1

150 ft. Radial Brick Chimney with foundation

6,020.00

2

Boiler Feed Pumps

1,050.00

Pipe, Fittings, Valve, Labor, Expenses and Sundries

12,100.00

Covering for Piping and Breeching

3,000.00

Extension of Power House Building

20,000.00

Engineering and Commission

8,400.00

Total

$84,990.00

At the meeting which the writer had with you yesterday morning, relative to the installation of new boiler at Central Power Plant, he left with you the two letters dated February 9th and February 11th which had previously been written concerning this subject.

The writer went into further details with you yesterday as to the practical impossibility of going shead on the basis of installing at the present time only one unit of water tube boilers.

Such boilers, different from horizontal bubular boilers, must be thoroughly cleaned not less often than every two months and preferably every month and to do so there must always be one apare unit which absolutely necessitates the installation at this time of 300 horse power boiler units.

The writer also went into some further details of the loss there would be in spending such a considerable sum for temporary work which would have to be thrown out and discarded as useless within the next year or eighteen months.

Supplementing the letter which was handed you yesterday setting forth a budget for the installation of one 300 H. P. water tube boiler with various temporary appurtenances, we are submitting herewith a close approximate budget for the installation of two such boiler units, with permanent brick stack, completion of permanent Power House Building and sundry other items detailed below.

Trusting that we may have your approval to proceed along the above lines, we are,
