---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1929'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
STATEMENT OF A. C. CARSON, MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, MADE WITH THE CONSENT OF THE BOARD FOR THE RECORD AND IN EXPLANATION OF HIS DISSENTING VOTE ON THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE BOARD WITH REFERENCE TO THE PROPOSALS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT BY THE STATE OF A COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS FOR WOMEN IN VIRGINIA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Captain George Zinn, of Virginia and Pennsylvania, to be known as the "Captain George Zinn Aviation Fund", or such similar description as the Trustees of the University may deem proper, (This will is being contested by Mrs. Flora Zinn, wife of Captain Zinn)

$50,000

From Mr. Paul G. McIntire, the property known as "Pantops". It is the desire and understanding of Mr. McIntire that in due time, and as early as possible, this property be used in connection with the teaching of psychiatry and nervous diseases in general in connection with the Department of Medicine of the University of Virginia

$47,500

From Mr. John Lee Pratt, to provide instruction in Public Speaking to students in the Department of Engineering

$ 1,350

From the Ella Sachs Plotz Foundation, for work in the Department of Physiology

$ 500

From William Grunow, President of Grisley-Grunow Company, a Majestic Radio Electric Phonograph

$ 350

From Lewis Radio Company of Charlottesville, installation and service on above, free of cost

From Mr. Chester D. Pugsley, to establish a scholarship for a son of an American Consul or Vice-Consul of Career, for the session 1930-31

$ 200

From the Virginia Players, to be added to the Little Theatre Fund

$ 85

Dormitory Cost

$ 471,557.50

Furniture

21,140.76

Total

$ 492,698.26

Academic Building

$ 145,723.15

Furniture to be added, estimated

10,000.00

Total

$ 155,723.15

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock P. M. There were present the Rector, C. Harding Walker, and Visitors Buchanan, Carson, Hull, McIntire, Munford, Rinehart and Scott.

The minutes of the previous meeting, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced to the meeting that he had just received from Snowden Marshall of New York, a telephone message advising him of the death of Dr. Harry T. Marshall which occurred in Paris, France, today. Dr. Marshall had been granted a leave of absence on account of illness and had gone to Paris with his family in the hope of regaining his health.

The President made the following announcements:

Attendance for the session 2394.

Gifts and Bequests:

From Ormond G. Smith, Chairs for the French Room in the Romance Pavilion.

From Dr. William A. Lambeth, Chairs, table, and a bronze statue of Dante, for the Italian Room in the Romance Pavilion.

From Mrs. Algernon Sydney Sullivan, and George H. Sullivan, two oil paintings.

From the French Government, a box of medals for the French Room in the Romance Pavilion.

From Miss Elizabeth R. Shirley, photostatic copies of letters from General Washington to Mrs. Washington, and letter from Miss Eliza Parke Custis to General Bolivar, for the Spanish Room in the Romance Pavilion.

From William A. Clark, Jr., a book of Thomas Jefferson's, and various letters of Jefferson's, all of great value.

From Mr. Chester D. Pugsley, of N. Y., portrait of Dean Charles G. Maphis.

From Virginia State Board of Examiners of Nurses, to the Department of Nursing at the University, a lantern and 180 slides, to aid in depicting the History of Nursing.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following leaves of absence were granted:

To Dr. Charles G. Maphis, Dean of the Summer Quarter, until April 17th, 1930, for study and travel abroad.

To Assistant Professor L. L. M. Dent, of the Corcoran School of Philosophy, until January 1, 1930, to recuperate from a rather serious illness.

The following special appropriations were approved:

Dr. Thelma Brumfield, Assistant Professor of Pathology, increase in salary from $3,000 to $3,600 for the session.

Murray M. McGuire, for services rendered in the Marchant will contest case, $2,605.58.

For janitor for animal house, new medical building, $600.

For salaries of new Assistants in English, Mathematics, etc., authorized by President Alderman in fall, because of increased number of students, and cared for by increased students' fees, $2,150.

On motion, the following recommendation of the Professors of Latin and Greek, approved by the President, was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the School of Latin and the School of Greek be discontinued as separate administrative entities, and that they be merged into a single school, to be designated as the School of Ancient Languages.

Lease to the Nu Charge House Corporation and the Chi Holding Corporation:

On motion, duly made and seconded, the following was adopted:

WHEREAS, a number of years ago the University of Virginia opened and constructed a macadam street along and near the northern boundary of its property from Rugby Road to the entrance of Lambeth Field, and,

WHEREAS, the Nu Charge House Corporation and the Chi Holding Corporation owned properties fronting on said street, and,

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have no desire to restrict the use or render useless said properties held for the benefit of and occupied by students of the University of Virginia.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the right to use said street for the purpose of ingress or egress to their said properties be leased with special warranty to the Nu Charge House Corporation and the Chi Holding Corporation, and their assigns for a term of ninety-nine years with the privilege or renewal in consideration of $1.00.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that said Corporations or their assigns be permitted to lay a concrete sidewalk along the northern margin of said street over the small portion of the land of the University of Virginia which lies between the lot of the Chi Holding Corporation and Rugby Road.

AND, That the Rector be and he is authorized to sign the lease for the Rector and Visitors.

The Bursar presented the following matter, in connection with the will of Robert Burns Waddy, which was approved:

Under the will of Robert Burns Waddy, of Fayette County, Kentucky, which was probated June 16, 1921, his widow, Mrs. Fannie Herr Waddy is given a life estate in certain real estate designated as No. 356, West Main Street, Lexington, Kentucky, and upon the death of said widow, said will directs that said property be sold and the proceeds distributed among certain beneficiaries named in the will, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to receive the sum of Five Thousand Dollars ($5000.00) to create a scholarship to be known as the "Robert Burns Waddy Scholarship".

We are advised by Mr. Clinton M. Harbison of Lexington, Kentucky, Attorney for Mrs. Waddy, that great difficulty has been experienced in the rental of this property so as to produce an income for the widow. The said Mrs. Waddy has therefore filed her bill in equity in the Circuit Court of Fayette County, Kentucky, making all parties in interest defendants thereto, and asking that said property may be sold, the proceeds invested in United States bonds, the income from which will be paid to her during her life and the principal to be distributed in accordance with the terms of the will upon her death.

Mr. Harbison requests that an answer be filed by the University of Virginia, concurring in the prayer of said bill.

A formal answer was presented to the meeting, in which the University states that it is willing for said property to be sold and the proceeds invested and applied as above set out. A copy of said answer was ordered spread upon the minutes of this meeting, and it was

RESOLVED, that the Rector is hereby requested to execute said answer in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The following resolution in re. consolidation of the Old Colony Trust Company, of Boston, Mass., with the First National Bank, of Boston, Mass., was adopted:

RESOLVED, By the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia That, C. Harding Walker, Rector, be and he is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of this Board a Proxy, Power of Attorney, Dividend order and consent, in the matter of the merger, consolidation and affiliation of the Old Colony Trust Company, of Boston, Mass., with the First National Bank of Boston and other corporations, as set forth in a communication to this Board under date of October 15, 1929.

RESOLVED, Further, That the Rector be and is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of this Board, the three stock certificates, held by the University, representing 167 shares of the capital stock of the Old Colony Trust Company.

The privilege of Virginia registration was granted to sons of regular officers of the U. S. Army of Navy, in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, That the sons of regular officers of the United States Army or Navy, whether on the active or retired list, irrespective of the location of their posts of duty, be accorded the privilege of registering under the rules applicable to the registration of Virginia students in any of the departments of the University.

The Buildings Committee of the Board reported the following expenditures on New Dormitories and Academic Building:

In connection with the location of the proposed College of Liberal Arts, for the education of women, the President presented the following statement of the matter for consideration:

1\. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have given careful consideration to the suggestions now before the Commission authorized by the General Assembly of 1928 that there be established by the State a College of Liberal Arts, for the education of women. The Rector and Visitors are heartily in favor of the establishment of such a college, and the University desires, as it has always desired, to cooperate, and to serve in the wisest way the purposes of such a college, and the educational interests of the women of the Commonwealth.

2\. The Rector and Visitors do not believe that there is wisdom or justice in the purpose to establish general co-education in the University, at least between young men and young women of undergraduate rank, and very profoundly believe that the chiefest function of the University, in so far as women are concerned, is to take the finest possible care of their higher education in the higher courses in the graduate field, and in the professional fields. We are now engaged in doing this successfully. We believe that any effort to place upon the University the obligation to build within its walls another and a separate College for women, would be most unwise, especially for the women, and would result in crippling for a long period the growth of the University as a great University, carrying forward work on the University levels. Their further thought is that the state can most practically and enduringly accomplish the establishment of a College of Liberal Arts for Women by converting some one of the Institutions now established and in operation, and least necessary for the technical advantages of training public school teachers, into such a college, under the direction and control of the Rector and Visitors and President and Faculty of the University of Virginia. The University would take pride in helping to inaugurate, define, and guide such an Institution.

3\. The Rector and Visitors beg to suggest that grave consideration be given by the Commission to whether or not it might be financially desirable and educationally wise to consider the incorporation into the State's activities of some College of Liberal Arts for Women, of established excellence and authority, which, under University control, could serve satisfactorily the Liberal Arts needs of the women of Virginia.

4\. It is the deliberate opinion of the Rector and Visitors that a College of Liberal Arts for Women be not established in the University, or so near the University that the individuality of the University as a non-coeducational institution may be endangered. They beg, finally, to express their belief that a College of Liberal Arts for Women, created under one or the other of the above suggestions, would realize for women in ever increasing usefulness and power, the advantages of a liberal education.

5\. Theoretically, it might be reasonably claimed that the ideal system would be the College of Liberal Arts for Women, affiliated with the State University for Men, but independently managed, with an independent faculty and physical eduipment, - allowing for some interchange between the two faculties, - situated such a number of miles distant as would insure proper independence, both for the College for Women and for the University, but with free access to the resources of the University to graduates of such a Women's College in graduate work, professional work, and the higher work of given subjects.

6\. Practically, however, it is very evident that such a program, requiring the expenditure of several millions of dollars, would involve the peril of giving it all up and dumping the whole idea on the University for men, as an undergraduate task and duty. Motives of economy and expediency have unquestionably brought coeducation to State Universities throughout America, rather than profound reflection upon the educational principles lying at the root of the whole matter.

Following a full discussion of the foregoing paper it was disposed of, as follows:

On motion of Mr. Scott, paragraphs 5 and 6 were eliminated.

On motion, duly made and seconded, to adopt the paper, as amended, was carried by a vote of six to two, viz: Ayes; Buchanan, Hull, McIntire, Rinehart, Scott and the Rector. Noes; Carson and Mrs. Munford.

Judge Carson and Mrs. Munford requested the privilege of filing a paper setting forth their reasons for voting in the negative, which request was granted. Their reasons are set forth in the following:

Since I do not concur with the majority of my fellow members on the Board in the adoption of the pending resolution dealing with proposals looking to the establishment of a College of Liberal Arts for Women, it appears to be incumbent on me to set out, as briefly as may be, my own views on a matter of such vital import to the welfare of both the University and the State.

I am convinced that a College of Liberal Arts for Women should be established by the State as an integral part of the State University, under the direction and control of the Rector and Visitors and the President and Faculty of the University to a like extent and under like conditions to the direction and control now exercised by these officers of the University over the Undergraduate College for Men.

But whatever may be the merits of the arguments for or against the introduction of the co-educational system elsewhere, I am also convinced that there are strong and compelling reasons, peculiar to the University of Virginia, based upon her traditions and history and upon the intense and well nigh universal opposition of the great body of her alumni to the introduction of that system at their alma mater, at least between young men and young women of undergraduate rank, which demand the establishment of such a College of Liberal Arts for Women as a co-ordinate institution, separate and apart from the College for Men.

The College of Liberal Arts for Women in Virginia should, therefore, have a separate physical equipment, a separate Dean and, in part at least, a separate faculty (all of whom, however, should be members of the faculty of the University) by whom it should be managed and disciplined as a separate entity. And to insure a proper degree of independence, both for the College for Women and the University, it should not be located on or in the immediate vicinity of the present University grounds:though it should not be so far distant as to deprive the College for Women of the cultural advantages of an intimate and close association with the University, or to prevent the convenient interchange of faculties and the use, under suitable regulations, of the library, the hospital, and other resources and equipment of the University.

The requirements as to entrance, class work, courses of study, examinations, and academic degrees should be maintained on a par with those established in the College for Men, and the scholastic and intellectual standards set in the College for Women should be such that its graduates will be entitled to recognition on equal terms with the graduates from the College for Men in the Post Graduate and Professional Courses at the University. The degrees in the College for Women should be awarded and conferred by the University of Virginia on like terms and conditions to those prescribed in the College for Men.

The arguments which have been advanced in favor of the establishment of the proposed College of Liberal Arts for Women at one of the State Normal Schools or at one of the Women's Colleges now operating in the state do not appeal to me. They seem to rest largely if not altogether upon grounds of supposed economies in the original outlay for grounds, buildings, and physical equipment.

But if it is proposed to give the young women of the state anything like equal opportunities to those the State now furnishes to the young men in the undergraduate department of the University of Virginia, the saving in first cost by the establishment of a women's college at any of these institutions would be far more than counterbalanced, in the long run, by the increased appropriations necessary to build up and maintain the college as a separate institution deprived of the many and manifest advantages and benefits and continuing economies in operation which would be secured by its original establishment and maintenance as a co-ordinate college of the University.

If the State is unwilling or unable at this time to appropriate the amount necessary to erect the buildings and to furnish suitable physical equipment for a co-ordinate college such as that outlined above, I should be inclined to urge the postponement of the whole undertaking until such time as the increasing resources of the State will be sufficient to justify the expenditure.

I understand that there are two or more women's colleges now in the state doing excellent work in the field of higher education, within the limits of their restricted endowments and resources. The competition of a cheap state-supported college for women, conducted on grounds and buildings not originally designed for the purpose, under the direction of a cheap or underpaid administrative staff and faculty, could hardly fail to prove detrimental to the welfare of these institutions. And until and unless the State is prepared to establish a State College of Liberal Arts for Women worthy of the name, the field may well be left clear for the institutions now operating without State aid.

I do not believe that the aspirations of the women of Virginia will ever be satisfied with anything less than a state-supported College for Women of the first rank, comparable in standing and dignity with the state-supported Undergraduate College for Men at the University. Soon or late any makeshift or compromise substitute will be cast aside. And such makeshift or compromise experiment with a separate State College for Women having proved a failure, there are sound reasons for anticipating the possibility, and perhaps the probability, that the University will then be confronted with an irresistible demand for undergraduate co-education within its own walls.

In so far, therefore, as the opposition to the establishment of a co-ordinate college as an integral part of the University of Virginia, at or near the University, is based on fears that it may prove to be the opening wedge for the introduction of the undergraduate co-educational system at the University, it seems to me that in thus taking counsel of their fears, the proponents of what I have ventured to call makeshift or compromise measures are courting the very danger they dread.

Oxford, England (and the Women's colleges within ten minutes walk of the University), Harvard (Radcliffe) Columbia (Barnard) and other great Universities have blazed the way, and have shown us how mutatis mutandis the State and the University of Virginia can together respond to the just demands of the women of the State for equal opportunities under the educational system maintained by the State.

The following professors, instructors, assistants and scholars and fellows, appointed by the President since June 1929, meeting of the Board, were approved:

Dr. George W. Spicer, Acting Professor of Political Science, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $4,500.

Dr. Charles K. Davenport, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,800.

John Alexander Rorer, Acting Assistant Professor in charge of Extension Teaching, for one year, beginning August 1, 1929, at a salary of $2,800.

Archer Milton Young, Acting Assistant Professor of Greek, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,800.

Dr. Douglas G. Hill, Research Associate in Chemistry, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,500.

Appointments on the National Research Council Grant:

Dr. Eric Mosettig, Research Associate in Alkaloid Chemistry, at a salary of $3,600, for one year, beginning September 1, 1929.

Frank L. Cohen, Research Associate in Alkaloid Chemistry, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,000.

Dr. Alfred Burger, Student Assistant to Dr. Mosettig, for one year, at a salary of $2,500, beginning September 1, 1929.

Louis Eilers, Research Fellow in Alkaloid Chemistry, for session 1929-30, at a salary of $750; incumbency to begin September 1, 1929, and extending through May 31, 1930.

Appointments of Full Time Instructors:

Matthew Volm, Instructor in German for 1929-30 at a salary of $2,000.

Richard Cecil Garlick, Jr., Instructor in the School of Romance Languages, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,000.

Theobold Holsopple, Acting Instructor in Art and Architecture, for the session of 1929-30, at a salary of $2,000.

Appointments of Instructors, Assistants, Fellows and Scholars:

Lula Ocillee Andrews, M. S., Instructor in Extension

Sten Askloef, Ph. D., Instructor in Astronomy

James Madison Butler, A.B. B.A., Instructor in English

W. E. Eikner, Instructor in Urology

Julio Suarez Galban, B.S., Instructor in Spanish

Raymond Alfred Gandy, B.S. M.D., Instructor in Medicine

Joseph Brown, Graham, B.S. M.D., Instructor in Bacteriology and Pathology

Elizabeth Jeffries Heinrich, Instructor in Citizenship

Robert Leonard King, M. D., Instructor in Medicine

Warren Womack Koontz, M.A. M.D., Instructor in Urology

Calvin Hall Phippins, Instructor in Education

Dirk Reuijl, Astr. Doctr., Instructor in Astronomy

Cecil Douglas Smith, Bach. Bus. Adm., Instructor in Accounting

Caleb Smith Stone, Jr., B.S. M.D., Instructor in Surgery and Gynecology

Oscar Swineford, Jr., B.S. M.D. Instructor in Medicine

Leland Burdine Tate, B.A. Instructor in Rural Social Economics

James Edward Ward, Jr., B.S., Instructor in Rural Social Economics

Montie Morton Weaver, B.S. M.S., Instructor in Mathematics

Fontaine Allen Wells, B.S., Instructor in Mathematics

Winston Wilkinson, Instructor in Music

ASSISTANTS

Wm. Andrews Brumfield, Jr. B.S.... Anatomy

George Daniel Cappaccio ... Pharmacology and Materia Medica

Rosario Carmel Coco ... Biblical History and Literature

John Earl Corette, Jr. ... Law

Edgar English ... English

Adam Tyree Finch, Jr. B.S. ... Clinical Diagnosis

Thomas Muldrup Forsyth ... English Literature

Robert Edward Lee Gildea ... Engineering

Samuel Butler Grimes, B.S. ... Histology and Embryology

George Taylor Gwathmey, Jr. B.A. ... Anatomy

Howard Hayward Hackley, B.A. ... Public Speaking

Winthrop Huntington Hall ... Anatomy

Charles Dorsey Harmon, B.A. B.S. ... Mathematics and Engineering

Clarence Mortimer Hawkins ... Engineering

Angus Hinson ... Anatomy

Joseph William Houck, A.B. ... Pharmacology and Materia Medica

Julius Franklin Hunt, B.S.E. C.E. ... Art and Architecture

Raymond Lavillon Jackson, B.S. L. L.B. ... Law

Edward Fruth Joachim, B.S.E. M.E. ... Engineering

Alva Alexander Johnson ... Mathematics and Engineering

James Peter King ... Anatomy

Bernard Jerry Kyle ... Engineering

Allen Quarles Ladd ... Engineering

Southgate Leigh, Jr. B.A. ... Pharmacology and Materia Medica

Jack Neal Lott, Jr. B.S. ... Law

Lewis Charles Mattison ... English Literature

David Lee Maulsby ... Engineering

William Irvin Miller, B.A. ... Law

Ellis Columbus Moore, B.S. M.D. ... Anatomy

Garnet Virgil Moore ... Engineering

Wm. Howard Paine ... Medicine

Calvin Hall Phippins ... Education

Russell Lee Post, B.A. ... Law

Gilford Godfrey Quarles ... Engineering

George Austin Robertson ... Engineering

Frank William Rose, Jr. ... Engineering

Thornton Turner Rose ... English Literature

Asa Elmore Seeds ... Anatomy

David Raymond Shelton ... Law

James Henry Simmonds, B.S. ... Law

Edward Carl Stevenson, B.S.E. M.S.... Engineering

FELLOWSHIPS

The Rector and Visitors Felloswhips:

Clifton Brooke McIntosh, B.A.

Fernando Martinez, B.S., M.S.

George Wellington Smith, A.B., M.A.

Joseph Lee Vaughan, B.A., M. A.

Vanderbilt Fellowships:

Sten Askloef, Ph. D.

Dirk Reuijl, Astr. Doctr.

College Fellowship:

Harvey Francis Baugh, III, B.A.

Philip F. duPont Service Fellowships:

William Hamlin Wandel, B.S.... Economics and Commerce

William Stone Weedon, B.S. ... Mathematics

Henri Phillip Ayres, B.S. ... French

Joseph Everett Fauber, Jr., B.S. ... Art and Architecture

Charles Dorsey Harmon, B.A. M.A. ... Mathematics

Elmer Ernest Hodges, B.S. ... Mathematics

Carlisle Joseph Kennett, B.S. ... Chemistry

Irving Lindsey, A.B., M.A. ... Mathematics

John Henry Massie, Jr. B.S. ... Economics and Commerce

William A. Moomaw, B.S. ... Chemistry

Avery Henry Reed, Sr. ... Mining Engineering

Philip F. du Pont Fellowship:

Senior Fellowship:

Edgar Stuart Kiracofe, M.A. ... Education

Junior Fellowships:

Susie Chilton Palmer, B.S. ... History

Martha Reed, B.A. ... English

SCHOLARSHIPS

American Chemical Society Scholarship:

Lewis Charles Mattison

Armenian Students' Association Scholarship:

Vahe Martyr Arakelian

Louis Bennett Law Scholarship:

James Sloan Kuyendall

Thompson Brown Scholarship:

Eugene Beverly Ferris, Jr., B.S.

Thomas Pinkney Bryan Memorial Scholarship:

Norwood Bentley Orrick

George Cameron Memorial Scholarship:

Douglas Gee Myers

Richard Eppes Memorial Scholarship:

Douglas Gee Myers

William C. Folkes Scholarships:

William Eugene Apperson

Harrison Trueheart Poston

Jack Spencer, Phg.

Alvin Graydon Wood

Daniel Harmon Scholarship:

Louis Lee Guy

William A. Herndon Scholarships:

James Edward Amiss

Thomas Sterling Claiborne

Wilson Thomas Sowder

Dr. Edward May Magruder Medical Scholarship:

Roger Gregory Magruder

Samuel Miller Scholarship:

Charles Nathaniel Huckstep

Porto Rico Scholarship:

Gabriel Llull

Bartlett Roper Scholarship:

William Thomas Temple

Isabelle Merrick Samson Scholarship:

John Hitchcock

William Seldon Memorial Scholarship:

Adam Tyree Finch, Jr.

Sarah Ann Seward Memorial Scholarship:

Isreal Bernard Cantor

Simon Seward Memorial Scholarship:

Edwin Morrison Young

Seven Society Alumni Medical Scholarship:

Thomas Leonard Watson, Jr., B.S.

Southern Women's Educational Alliance Scholarship:

Dorothy Dillard Brame, B. A.

United Daughters of the Confederacy Scholarships:

Mitchell Woods Bacon

Henry Emerson Biggs, Jr.

Theodore Allen Dees, Jr.

Fenton Allen Gentry

Howard Thompson Holden

Charles Frederick Houston, Jr.

Edward Alston Lee

John Payne McDonnell

Virginia Division of United Daughters of the Confederacy Scholarships:

Elizabeth Lewis Saunders, B.A.

Virginia Law Review Scholarship:

Hunter Holmes Moss

Virginia Public High School Scholarships:

George Edwin Artz, Woodstock High School

Richard Boxley Bowles, Clifton Forge High School

John Chalkley Buchanan, Dickenson Memorial High School, Clintwood, Va.

Donald Gruver Cooley, Berryville High School

G. Stuart Hamm, Jr., Lane High School, Charlottesville

James Edward Hoofnagle, Marion High School

John Stephen Hopkins, Stony Point High School

William Jesse Hudgins, Jr., John Marshal High School, Richmond

Harold Maurice Jackson, Leesburg High School

Wm. Judson Joyner, Woodrow Wilson High School, Portsmouth

Alfred Marshall Luttrell, Handley High School, Winchester

Phillip Russell Milton, Shenandoah High School

Daniel Egbert Phillips, Newport News High School

Miles Poindexter, II, E.C. Glass High School, Lynchburg

Joseph Riddick Scullion, Maury High School, Norfolk

Edgar Hubert Smith, Blacksburg High School

Charles A. Tanner, Jr., Gladys High School

Wm. Thomas Temple, Petersburg High School

Joseph Allen Thomas, Jr., Meriwether Lewis High School, Ivy

Overton Sneed Thomas, Jr., Palmyra High School

William Eldridge Weber, Jr., Smithfield High School

Richard Henry Whitehead Scholarship:

William Hamilton Roper, B.A.

Woodrow Wilson Scholarship:

Christopher Hartwell Davis, B.S.

Philip F. du Pont Service Scholarships:

Edgar F. Belaval ... Spanish

Harry Donald Burt ... Chemistry

Benjamin Weisiger Early ... English

Earnly Estes ... Chemistry

John Overton Henderson ... French

Edward William Herold ... Physics

Theodore Witter Holmes, Jr. ... Economics and Commerce

Frederick Arthur Johns ... French

Thompson Brooke Maury ... French

Garnett Virgil Moore ... Chemistry

Fred Shank Palmer ... Chemistry

Kenneth Stuart Patton, Jr. ... French

Magda Celsa Piccone Rinetti ... Italian

Frank William Rose, Jr. ... Chemistry

Oscar Pilcher Sadler ... Biology

Samuel Sigelman ... Spanish

John Rodgers Slidell ... French

Charles Raleigh Smith ... Spanish

Irving Cabell Watkins ... Geology

Philip F. du Pont Scholarships:

College Department:

George Mann Bell, Jr.

Dwight Browning Billings

Richard Boxley Bowles

Walter Scott Brodie

John Chalkley Buchanan

Marshall Perkins Claiborne, Jr.

Reginald Geary Conley

Donald Gruver Cooley

Howard Harmon Curd

Theodore North Denslow, Jr.

Lon Norman Dooley

Pinkney Arthur Early, Jr.

Joseph Dupuy Eggleston, Jr.

Warren Grice Elliott

Samuel Miles Francis

Robert Goldstein

Benjamin Waters Gordon

Luther Ward Green

Alexander Erwin Hackley

George Johnson Hall

Carrington Harrison

Samuel Augustus Hoffman

Charles Thompson Holyman

Malcolm Louis Hughes

James Iredell Jenkins, Jr.

Gerald Langford

Wilmer Henry Lawrence

Bertram Barrett LeHardy

Gordon Lewis

Hunter Fielding Lewis, Jr.

Harold William Linton

Alfred Marshall Luttrell

Henry Sylvanus McDonald, Jr.

Robert Montagu McMurdo

Charles G. Mathews, Jr.

Morrison Curried Meriam

Jack David Nelowitz

Robert Burwell Nelson, Jr.

Henry Norwood Obear

Aubrey Edwin Palmer

John Emory Parks

Elbert Earl Patterson

Daniel Morrow Phillips

Alfred Cleveland Riggin, Jr.

Sanford Louis Rotter, Jr.

Roy Raymond Rusmisel

Joseph Riddick Scullion

Franklin de Ford Seney

Irvin Theodore Shapiro

Thomas Garnett Shufflebarger

James Randolph Steed

Edward Daniels Storm

Rey Crickenberger Stuart

Charles Osborne Swadley

Hugh Franklin Swingle, Jr.

Overton Sneed Thomas, Jr.

William Norman Thornton, Jr.

Elias Henry Tingle

Hugh Nelson Page Tunstall

Roland Harris Vaughan

John Neal Waddell

Robert Stringfellow Walker

Huber Brainerd Wallace

Clifford Henry Wayland

John Randolph Weaver

William Eldridge Weber, Jr.

John Randolph Williams

Martin Robert Wisely

Henry Frain Womer

John Martin Woodside

Joseph George Wright

Robert Gilpin Wright, III

Robert Lee Young

Thomas Henry Young, Jr.

Graduate Department:

Jane Chapman Slaughter, B.A. M.A.

Education Department:

Letitia Blakey

John Bartrum Hurt

Virginia Cary Martin

Eleanor A. Scott

William Andrew Vaughan

Philip F. du Pont Scholarships:

Nursing Education:

Esther Mayfield Carter

Helen Camp Decorse

Bessie Montague Meredith

Medical Department:

Dewey Loring Anderson

John Bohannan Hozier

Frank Andes Strickler

Engineering Department:

Stonewall Jackson Doswell

Daniel David Klaff

Gerold Valente Littig

William Harry Norris

Nelson Warren Robinson

Law Department:

William Page Dame

Donald James Dorey

Minor Botts Lewis, Jr.

George Bryant McCormack III

Norwood Bentley Orrick

Edgar Thomas Reeves, Jr.

Virginia State Teachers Scholarships:

Mildred Turner Bouldin

William Zachary Catterton

Minnie Daughtrey

Mary Guill

Susie Moffatt Hawkins

Elmer Vivian Johnson

Robert W. James

Russell Abram Joyce

Alfred Marshall Luttrell

Manley L. Maddox

Thelma Maddox

Gabriel Nicholas Maupin

Elbert Lawson Mumma

Margaret Kennedy Noble

Ella Thompson Robeson

Ida Cathrine Stoneham

Jessie Verne Taylor

Russell W. Yowell

The meeting then adjourned.

STATEMENT OF A. C. CARSON, MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, MADE WITH THE CONSENT OF THE BOARD FOR THE RECORD AND IN EXPLANATION OF HIS DISSENTING VOTE ON THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE BOARD WITH REFERENCE TO THE PROPOSALS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT BY THE STATE OF A COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS FOR WOMEN IN VIRGINIA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since I do not concur with the majority of my fellow members on the Board in the adoption of the pending resolution dealing with proposals looking to the establishment of a College of Liberal Arts for Women, it appears to be incumbent on me to set out, as briefly as may be, my own views on a matter of such vital import to the welfare of both the University and the State.

I am convinced that a College of Liberal Arts for Women should be established by the State as an integral part of the State University, under the direction and control of the Rector and Visitors and the President and Faculty of the University to a like extent and under like conditions to the direction and control now exercised by these officers of the University over the Undergraduate College for Men.

But whatever may be the merits of the arguments for or against the introduction of the co-educational system elsewhere, I am also convinced that there are strong and compelling reasons, peculiar to the University of Virginia, based upon her traditions and history and upon the intense and well nigh universal opposition of the great body of her alumni to the introduction of that system at their alma mater, at least between young men and young women of undergraduate rank, which demand the establishment of such a College of Liberal Arts for Women as a co-ordinate institution, separate and apart from the College for Men.

The College of Liberal Arts for Women in Virginia should, therefore, have a separate physical equipment, a separate Dean and, in part at least, a separate faculty (all of whom, however, should be members of the faculty of the University) by whom it should be managed and disciplined as a separate entity. And to insure a proper degree of independence, both for the College for Women and the University, it should not be located on or in the immediate vicinity of the present University grounds:though it should not be so far distant as to deprive the College for Women of the cultural advantages of an intimate and close association with the University, or to prevent the convenient interchange of faculties and the use, under suitable regulations, of the library, the hospital, and other resources and equipment of the University.

The requirements as to entrance, class work, courses of study, examinations, and academic degrees should be maintained on a par with those established in the College for Men, and the scholastic and intellectual standards set in the College for Women should be such that its graduates will be entitled to recognition on equal terms with the graduates from the College for Men in the Post Graduate and Professional Courses at the University. The degrees in the College for Women should be awarded and conferred by the University of Virginia on like terms and conditions to those prescribed in the College for Men.

The arguments which have been advanced in favor of the establishment of the proposed College of Liberal Arts for Women at one of the State Normal Schools or at one of the Women's Colleges now operating in the state do not appeal to me. They seem to rest largely if not altogether upon grounds of supposed economies in the original outlay for grounds, buildings, and physical equipment.

But if it is proposed to give the young women of the state anything like equal opportunities to those the State now furnishes to the young men in the undergraduate department of the University of Virginia, the saving in first cost by the establishment of a women's college at any of these institutions would be far more than counterbalanced, in the long run, by the increased appropriations necessary to build up and maintain the college as a separate institution deprived of the many and manifest advantages and benefits and continuing economies in operation which would be secured by its original establishment and maintenance as a co-ordinate college of the University.

If the State is unwilling or unable at this time to appropriate the amount necessary to erect the buildings and to furnish suitable physical equipment for a co-ordinate college such as that outlined above, I should be inclined to urge the postponement of the whole undertaking until such time as the increasing resources of the State will be sufficient to justify the expenditure.

I understand that there are two or more women's colleges now in the state doing excellent work in the field of higher education, within the limits of their restricted endowments and resources. The competition of a cheap state-supported college for women, conducted on grounds and buildings not originally designed for the purpose, under the direction of a cheap or underpaid administrative staff and faculty, could hardly fail to prove detrimental to the welfare of these institutions. And until and unless the State is prepared to establish a State College of Liberal Arts for Women worthy of the name, the field may well be left clear for the institutions now operating without State aid.

I do not believe that the aspirations of the women of Virginia will ever be satisfied with anything less than a state-supported College for Women of the first rank, comparable in standing and dignity with the state-supported Undergraduate College for Men at the University. Soon or late any makeshift or compromise substitute will be cast aside. And such makeshift or compromise experiment with a separate State College for Women having proved a failure, there are sound reasons for anticipating the possibility, and perhaps the probability, that the University will then be confronted with an irresistible demand for undergraduate co-education within its own walls.

In so far, therefore, as the opposition to the establishment of a co-ordinate college as an integral part of the University of Virginia, at or near the University, is based on fears that it may prove to be the opening wedge for the introduction of the undergraduate co-educational system at the University, it seems to me that in thus taking counsel of their fears, the proponents of what I have ventured to call makeshift or compromise measures are courting the very danger they dread.

Oxford, England (and the Women's colleges within ten minutes walk of the University), Harvard (Radcliffe) Columbia (Barnard) and other great Universities have blazed the way, and have shown us how mutatis mutandis the State and the University of Virginia can together respond to the just demands of the women of the State for equal opportunities under the educational system maintained by the State.

STATEMENT OF A. C. CARSON, MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, MADE WITH THE CONSENT OF THE BOARD FOR THE RECORD AND IN EXPLANATION OF HIS DISSENTING VOTE ON THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE BOARD WITH REFERENCE TO THE PROPOSALS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT BY THE STATE OF A COLLEGE OF LIBERAL ARTS FOR WOMEN IN VIRGINIA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since I do not concur with the majority of my fellow members on the Board in the adoption of the pending resolution dealing with proposals looking to the establishment of a College of Liberal Arts for Women, it appears to be incumbent on me to set out, as briefly as may be, my own views on a matter of such vital import to the welfare of both the University and the State.

I am convinced that a College of Liberal Arts for Women should be established by the State as an integral part of the State University, under the direction and control of the Rector and Visitors and the President and Faculty of the University to a like extent and under like conditions to the direction and control now exercised by these officers of the University over the Undergraduate College for Men.

But whatever may be the merits of the arguments for or against the introduction of the co-educational system elsewhere, I am also convinced that there are strong and compelling reasons, peculiar to the University of Virginia, based upon her traditions and history and upon the intense and well nigh universal opposition of the great body of her alumni to the introduction of that system at their alma mater, at least between young men and young women of undergraduate rank, which demand the establishment of such a College of Liberal Arts for Women as a co-ordinate institution, separate and apart from the College for Men.

The College of Liberal Arts for Women in Virginia should, therefore, have a separate physical equipment, a separate Dean and, in part at least, a separate faculty (all of whom, however, should be members of the faculty of the University) by whom it should be managed and disciplined as a separate entity. And to insure a proper degree of independence, both for the College for Women and the University, it should not be located on or in the immediate vicinity of the present University grounds:though it should not be so far distant as to deprive the College for Women of the cultural advantages of an intimate and close association with the University, or to prevent the convenient interchange of faculties and the use, under suitable regulations, of the library, the hospital, and other resources and equipment of the University.

The requirements as to entrance, class work, courses of study, examinations, and academic degrees should be maintained on a par with those established in the College for Men, and the scholastic and intellectual standards set in the College for Women should be such that its graduates will be entitled to recognition on equal terms with the graduates from the College for Men in the Post Graduate and Professional Courses at the University. The degrees in the College for Women should be awarded and conferred by the University of Virginia on like terms and conditions to those prescribed in the College for Men.

The arguments which have been advanced in favor of the establishment of the proposed College of Liberal Arts for Women at one of the State Normal Schools or at one of the Women's Colleges now operating in the state do not appeal to me. They seem to rest largely if not altogether upon grounds of supposed economies in the original outlay for grounds, buildings, and physical equipment.

But if it is proposed to give the young women of the state anything like equal opportunities to those the State now furnishes to the young men in the undergraduate department of the University of Virginia, the saving in first cost by the establishment of a women's college at any of these institutions would be far more than counterbalanced, in the long run, by the increased appropriations necessary to build up and maintain the college as a separate institution deprived of the many and manifest advantages and benefits and continuing economies in operation which would be secured by its original establishment and maintenance as a co-ordinate college of the University.

If the State is unwilling or unable at this time to appropriate the amount necessary to erect the buildings and to furnish suitable physical equipment for a co-ordinate college such as that outlined above, I should be inclined to urge the postponement of the whole undertaking until such time as the increasing resources of the State will be sufficient to justify the expenditure.

I understand that there are two or more women's colleges now in the state doing excellent work in the field of higher education, within the limits of their restricted endowments and resources. The competition of a cheap state-supported college for women, conducted on grounds and buildings not originally designed for the purpose, under the direction of a cheap or underpaid administrative staff and faculty, could hardly fail to prove detrimental to the welfare of these institutions. And until and unless the State is prepared to establish a State College of Liberal Arts for Women worthy of the name, the field may well be left clear for the institutions now operating without State aid.

I do not believe that the aspirations of the women of Virginia will ever be satisfied with anything less than a state-supported College for Women of the first rank, comparable in standing and dignity with the state-supported Undergraduate College for Men at the University. Soon or late any makeshift or compromise substitute will be cast aside. And such makeshift or compromise experiment with a separate State College for Women having proved a failure, there are sound reasons for anticipating the possibility, and perhaps the probability, that the University will then be confronted with an irresistible demand for undergraduate co-education within its own walls.

In so far, therefore, as the opposition to the establishment of a co-ordinate college as an integral part of the University of Virginia, at or near the University, is based on fears that it may prove to be the opening wedge for the introduction of the undergraduate co-educational system at the University, it seems to me that in thus taking counsel of their fears, the proponents of what I have ventured to call makeshift or compromise measures are courting the very danger they dread.

Oxford, England (and the Women's colleges within ten minutes walk of the University), Harvard (Radcliffe) Columbia (Barnard) and other great Universities have blazed the way, and have shown us how mutatis mutandis the State and the University of Virginia can together respond to the just demands of the women of the State for equal opportunities under the educational system maintained by the State.
