---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1931'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock A.M., at which were present the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Buchanan, Carson, McIntire, Munford, Hall, Rinehart, Shackelford and Williams.

The Rector stated that the principal business for the attention of the Board was the election of an Acting President to carry forward the administration of the University until such time as a successor to Dr. Alderman is elected. In conformity with this statement the meeting gave consideration to the matter and received the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted

RESOLVED, That Dr. J. L. Newcomb, the present Assistant to the President, be and he is hereby authorized to perform all the duties of the office of President of the University of Virginia, with the title of Acting President, until the vacancy occasioned by the death of President Alderman is filled by the election of his successor.

RESOLVED, That, subject to the approval of the Governor, the salary of Dr. J. L. Newcomb be raised to $10,000 to cover the additional duties of Acting President, and the present appropriation to the President of $1,000 for entertainments be placed at the disposal of the Acting President, and that he be allowed the house he now occupies free of rent, this arrangement to be effective as of May 15, 1931.

With respect to electing a successor to President Alderman, the Board took the following action:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the Rector be and he is requested to canvass the entire field of possible persons to fill the office of President of the University and bring to this Board the names of suitable persons for this office, and in the performance of this duty he is authorized to appoint a committee of three or more members of this Board to co-operate with and assist him.

In conformity with the foregoing action the Rector appointed on the committee Messrs. Buchanan, Williams and Shackelford. (The committee organized by the appointment of Sentaor Buchanan Chairman, and Lewis C. Williams. )

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the Rector be requested to make it known that the Board will welcome from interested individuals among the faculty, alumni and friends of the University suggestion of names to be considered for the office of President of the University of Virginia.

The Building Committee reported that a communication had been received from the Architectural Commission asking for an increase in its fee on construction now under way for the University, as follows: On addition to the Chemical Laboratory, to 10%, and on the Clark Memorial Law Building to 6% on the completed building plus traveling expenses and special engineering services on the heating system. The Committee stated that due consideration had been given the request and that they wished to make the following report, which was unanimously adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED, That without committing this Board to changing in any respect the existing arrangement with the Architectural Commission that the compensation to be paid the said Commission for services on the Clark Memorial Law Building be fixed at 6% of the total cost of the completed building, in consideration of special services on this building, but that the application of the Architectural Commission for additional compensation for other work be not approved.

The Bursar requested instruction with respect to continuing the salary of President Alderman to his widow, whereupon the following motion was adopted.

RESOLVED, That the salary of President Alderman, whose death occurred on April 29, 1931, be continued for the months of May and June and that the same be paid to his widow.

The meeting then adjourned.

RESOLVED, That without committing this Board to changing in any respect the existing arrangement with the Architectural Commission that the compensation to be paid the said Commission for services on the Clark Memorial Law Building be fixed at 6% of the total cost of the completed building, in consideration of special services on this building, but that the application of the Architectural Commission for additional compensation for other work be not approved.

RESOLVED, That without committing this Board to changing in any respect the existing arrangement with the Architectural Commission that the compensation to be paid the said Commission for services on the Clark Memorial Law Building be fixed at 6% of the total cost of the completed building, in consideration of special services on this building, but that the application of the Architectural Commission for additional compensation for other work be not approved.
