---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1931'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1931) May 2, 1931
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 2, 1931

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Following the funeral of President Alderman, held at 11 o'clock this day, at the request of the Rector the members of the Board met on Fast Lawn in the President's Office to take such action touching the death of our President as might be deemed appropriate

There were present the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors B. F. Buchanan, C. Harding Walker, A. C. Carson, Mrs. M. C. B. Munford, Hollis Rinehart, Paul Goodloe McIntire, Lewis C. Williams, and Sidney B. Hall. (Visitors Virginius R. Shackelford was unable to attend on account of illness.)

The Rector, on behalf of the Visitors, gave appropriate expression to the great loss sustained by the University, the State and the Nation in the death of Doctor Edwin Anderson Alderman, the first President of the University

The Rector stated that he deemed it appropriate at this time that a committee of the Board be appointed to prepare a memorial to be entered upon the minutes of the Board. The suggestion prevailed, and the Rector was authorized to appoint a committee to prepare such memorial. He named on the Committee Messrs Walker, Buchanan and Williams, and, at the request of the members the Rector was added to the committee

It was decided that a meeting of the Board be held on Saturday, May 23, at 11 o'clock

The meeting then adjourned
