---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1932'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1932) April 15, 1932
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 15, 1932

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS.
------

From the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, to the Institute of Public Affairs

$ 5,000

From Mr. Thomas F. Lee, of New York, to the Institute of Public Affairs

500

From the Laura Spelman Fund to the Institute of Public Affairs

2,500

From Mr. Joseph Martin, an alumnus, of Los Angeles, to establish a scholarship in Electrical Engineering

5,000

From the Social Science Research Council, to Professor Melvin G. de Chazeau, for the purpose of continuing abroad his study of the regulation of public utilities in Great Britain

3,500

From the Social Science Research Council, to Professor Oron J. Hale, to enable him to complete a research problem dealing with the influence of the newspaper press on Anglo-German diplomatic relations, from 1890 to 1914

$ 3,000

From the National Research Council to Professor Sidney William Britton, for supplies and assistance in connection with his study of the biochemical and physiological properties of a hormone-containing extract of the adrenal cortex, a second grant of

1,200

From the American Council of Learned Societies, to Professor A. K. Davis, Jr., to aid him in his research in connection with Virginia Folksongs

1,000

From Mr. George W. Merck, for the Merck Fellowship in Alkaloid Chemistry for 1932-33

700

From the National Research Council to Professor Carl C. Speidel, for support of his investigation on the activities of nerve tissue

700

From the National Research Council to Professor Everett F. Davis, for the purchase of a cine photomicrographic apparatus to be used in connection with his study of the protoplasm of root hairs

550

From the National Research Council, to Professor Alfred Chanutin, for assistance and supplies in connection with his study of the effect of diet in the partially rephrectomized rat

500

From Mrs. D. H. Howard, to establish a scholarship in memory of her son, Estes Vaughan Howard

250

From the Seven Society

77.77

Total

$24,477.77

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock, P. M., with the following present: Visitors A. C. Carson, Mrs. M. B. C. Munford, Paul G. McIntire, Fred W. Scott, William A. Stuart, C. Harding Walker, Lewis C. Williams and R. Gray Williams, and Acting President Newcomb.

Judge A. C. Carson and Fred W. Scott reappointed for the term of four years, R. Gray Williams, appointed to succeed Virginius R. Shackelford, for the term of four years, and William Alexander Stuart appointed for the unexpired term of B. F. Buchanan, deceased, presented proper qualifications for the office of Visitor of the University of Virginia.

Mr. C. Harding Walker was elected to the chair for the purpose of organizing the Board and called for nominations for the office of Rector. Mr. Fred W. Scott was placed in nomination for the office of Rector for the usual term of four years, and he received the unanimous vote of the Visitors for the office.

The minutes of the previous meeting having been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The Rector announced the following standing committees of the Board:

EXECUTIVE: L. C. Williams, R. Gray Williams, Mrs. Munford, and the Rector.

FINANCE: C. Harding Walker, Fred W. Scott (Chairman) and Paul G. McIntire (Mr. Scott was requested to continue as Chairman of the Committee.)

GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS: Hollis Rinehart, A. C. Carson, Paul G. McIntire and William A. Stuart.

NEW BUILDINGS: Hollis Rinehart, L. C. Williams, Paul G. McIntire and the Rector.

NOMINATION FOR PRESIDENT: L. C. Williams, C. Harding Walker, and R. Gray Williams.

The Acting President announced the following announcements:

Attendance: Total registration to date 2,604.

From Mr. William A. Clark, Jr., of the Class of 1899, Jefferson's Manuscript specifications for the construction of the University of Virginia, and eighteen manuscript letters written by Thomas Jefferson to John Hartwell Cocke, between 1814 and 1826, on the general subject of the establishment of the University.

From Mr. Robert C. Taylor, of New York, two rare and valuable contemporary broadsides, giving the text of Jefferson's Inaugural Addresses.

From Dr. Stephen Hurt Watts, of the University, formerly Professor of Surgery and Gynecology in the Department of Medicine, a large part of his valuable medical library, including 189 books and 630 bound periodicals, and a number of unbound periodicals and pamphlets.

From Dr. Halstead Shipman Hedges, of the Department of Medicine, 128 bound volumes of medical works.

From Professor Atcheson L. Hench, 26 bound volumes of miscallaneous works and 16 copies of old Charlottesville newspapers.

From members of the faculty, alumni, students and other friends of the University, a considerable number of interesting and valuable books, to the general and departmental libraries of the University.

The resignation of Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Mr. Chas. M. Daniel, was presented, and the following action taken thereon:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the resignation of Professor Charles M. Daniel, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, be accepted with regret.

Leaves of Absence were requested by the following members of the faculty, as set forth in the respective resolutions.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That leave of absence be granted Professor William Minor Lile, Dean of the Law School and Professor of Law, for the remainder of the session 1931-32.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That leave of absence be granted Professor Melvin G. de Chazeau, Associate Professor of Commerce, for the session 1932-33, without salary, for the purpose of continuing, abroad, his study of the light and power public utilities of Great Britain.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That leave of absence be granted Professor Lancelot L. M. Dent, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the session 1932-33, for study abroad. His substitute to be provided out of his salary.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That leave of absence be granted Professor Oron J. Hale, Assistant Professor of History, for the session 1932-33, without salary, to enable him to carry out, in London and Berlin, a research problem on which he is now engaged.

Upon the recommendation of the Acting President Mr. Charles W. Porter, III, was elected to the faculty, as set forth in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Mr. Charles W. Porter, III be and is hereby elected Acting Assistant Professor of History, for the session 1932-33, at a salary of $2,500. Mr. Porter is to substitute for Professor Oron J. Hale.

The Attorney for the University, W. Allan Perkins, made the following report on the death of Miss Mary C. Glover, a trained nurse attached to the staff of the University Hospital, which was received and unanimously adopted:

On the 20th of February, 1932, Miss Mary Glover, a trained nurse attached to the staff of the University Hospital, in the discharge of some of her duties about the Hospital, came out of the building and started across the parking space at the rear of the Hospital. Tanner Slaughter, a colored man, employed as janitor at the Biological Laboratory, had been sent to the Hospital to get some distilled water for use at the Laboratory. He had driven his own car, an old T-Model Ford, to the Hospital, had parked it in the parking space, had gotten the water, and just as Miss Glover approached the spot where the automobile was parked, Slaughter undertook to crank his machine, preparatory to returning to the Biological Laboratory.

Just as Miss Glover reached a point at the rear of Slaughter's car, the engine of the car started, and in some way the mechanism of the reverse gear of the car became engaged and the car was driven violently backward, running over Miss Glover and killing her almost instantly.

Miss Glover is survived by a brother and a sister, neither of whom was in any way dependent upon her. She is survived also by her mother, Mrs. Isabel Glover. At the time of Miss Glover's death and for six months prior thereto, her mother had been living with her in a room which Miss Glover rented in Charlottesville, and had been entirely dependent for her support upon the earnings of her daughter, which, at the time of her death, amounted to $37.50 per week.

The facts with reference to the total dependency, and all other facts connected with the accident, have been thoroughly investigated both by Mr. Carruthers and by myself. Tanner Slaughter had no public liability insurance upon his car, and, in our opinion, the case is one of liability upon the University under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law of Virginia.

Under Section 39 of that law burial expenses not exceeding $150.00 should be paid, and compensation should be paid to the dependent mother at the rate of $14.00 per week for a period of three hundred weeks.

I beg to present for your consideration copy of contract prepared on Form #35 of the Industrial Commission of Virginia, under which we agree to pay Mrs. Glover the amounts referred to above. It is my recommendation that the Board adopt the following resolution -

"Upon consideration of the facts attending the fatal injury to Miss Mary Glover, which occurred at the University Hospital on the 20th of February, 1932, taking into consideration the fact that Mrs. Isabel Glover, mother of said Miss Mary Glover, was entirely dependent upon her said daughter at the time of the accident, it is,

RESOLVED, that Mr. John L. Newcomb, Acting President, be and is hereby requested to execute the contract presented to this Board by the Attorney for the University, under which the University agrees to pay the said Mrs. Glover the sum of $150.00, burial expenses, and compensation at the rate of $14.00 per week, payable each week for three hundred weeks from the date of said injury, February 20th, 1932, or until her death if death occurs before expiration of said three hundred weeks, and E. I. Carruthers, Bursar of the University, is hereby authorized and requested to make the payments to said Mrs. Glover, provided for under said contract."

The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund submitted report of the action taken at its meeting of April 14, 1932, with respect to the appropriation of funds in its care. The report was received and approved:

Upon motion of Mr. Tunstall, duly seconded, Mr. R. Gray Williams, Secretary of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, was requested to present to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia the resolutions making appropriations for the fiscal year 1932-1933, as follows:

RESOLVED (1) That this report and all actions taken and things done by the officers of the Board since the date of the last annual meeting be ratified and approved.

(2) That all appropriations of income made by the Board at this meeting be submitted to the Board of Visitors for its concurrence, as required under the deed of gift and the charter of the Alumni Association.

(3) That from the net income of the Jefferson Memorial and Centennial Endowment Funds, over and above the expenses of administration, handling and accounting, and any amounts which may be set aside for the purpose of amortizing the premiums of any securities purchased at a premium, the following appropriations be made for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1932:

(A) From the Income of the Centennial Endowment Fund.

(1) To the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, to be paid as and when authorized by the Treasurer, the sum of $5,000.

(2) To the University of Virginia, for the special purposes designated by certain donors to the Centennial Endowment Fund, the sum of $3,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, payable in equal quarterly instalments, beginning September 15th, 1932.

(B) From the Income of the Jefferson Memorial Fund.

(1) To the VIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEW, the sum of $1,000, payable to the Business Manager of said REVIEW, at his request.

(2) To Miss Rosa T. Bilisoly, payable July 1, 1932, for services rendered the Treasurer and Board during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1931, the sum of $100.

(3) To the University of Virginia, payable in equal quarterly instalments, beginning September 15, 1932, the sum of $40,000, from which the University shall provide for the support of the Walter Reed School of Pathology; The James Madison School of Law; The James Monroe School of International Law; The James Wilson School of Political Science and Economy; The Edgar Allen Poe School of English; and the Andrew Carnegie School of Engineering, and make the following allocations:

(a) For the Curry Memorial School of Education; The Barbour Page Lecture Fund; The Isaac Cary Scholarship; the income from the securities held in these funds respectively by the First and Merchants National Bank.

(b) For such other purposes as may be, or have been, specially designated by the donors, the income arising from the gifts made by these donors respectively.

(C) From the Income of both Funds.

The entire balance of the net income, after the payment of all other appropriations, including any unexpended balances from the appropriations hereinbefore made, to the President of the University for such purposes as may be determined upon by him, except as shall have been otherwise directed by the Board, the said balance to be set aside by the said agents and custodians on July 1, 1932, and to be paid out by them from time to time on the written instructions of the President, provided, that at the next annual meeting the President shall make a report to the Board of the purpose or purposes so determined upon by him, and the amount expended therefor.

With respect to the appointment of a committee on Institute of Public Affairs the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, That a committee consisting of the Acting President and two members from the Board of Visitors be appointed to confer with Dr. Chas. G. Maphis, Director of the Institute of Public Affairs, and to advise with him as to the program and general conduct of the Institute.

The Rector appointed on the above committee Messrs. Lewis C. Williams and R. Gray Williams.

Application of Professor A. F. Macconochie for a loan of $8,000 on his residence was granted in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, That a loan of $8,000 be granted to Professor A. F. Macconochie on his residence at Farmington to be secured by first lien and a life insurance policy of not less than $3,000; said loan to be repaid at the rate of $1,000 per year after the first year, or, on such other terms as to repayment as may be agreeable to the Chairman of the Finance Committee.

The budget for 1932-33 was presented by Acting President Newcomb and explained in detail by him as to the increases and decreases in estimated income and expenses and, aft a full discussion of its contents by the members of the Board, it was adopted in the following resolution:

RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA,

That the financial budget of the University of Virginia for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1932 and ending June 30, 1933, showing estimated receipts of $2,032,340.00, and estimated expenditures of $2,013,931.00, be and the same is hereby adopted, with the following restrictions:

1\. That the appropriation of $7,400 for capital outlays for the Engineering Department is restricted to $2,400 until the Acting President shall determine that the expenditure of the full amount will not create a deficit in the general budget.

2\. That the appropriation of $14,600 for the Institute of Public Affairs is conditioned upon gifts of $9,600 being received for that special purpose, and the appropriation is to be reduced by the amount of any deficiency in such gifts; or, increased by the amount such gifts may exceed the sum of $9,600.

3\. That the contributions of the University towards the purchase of retiring allowances for those members of the faculty who have availed of the action of this Board of June 11, 1928 providing that the University contribute an amount equal to 5% of the respective salaries to be matched by an equal amount to be paid by the faculty members for the purchasing of retiring allowances, be continued for the fiscal year 1932-33 on the basis of the salaries paid in 1931-32, provided such contributing members pay a like sum.

4\. That the sum of $810 be added to the appropriation for the School of Pathology for additional instructor.

The budget in detail is filed in the Budget File of the Minutes of the Board.

The meeting then adjourned.

On the 20th of February, 1932, Miss Mary Glover, a trained nurse attached to the staff of the University Hospital, in the discharge of some of her duties about the Hospital, came out of the building and started across the parking space at the rear of the Hospital. Tanner Slaughter, a colored man, employed as janitor at the Biological Laboratory, had been sent to the Hospital to get some distilled water for use at the Laboratory. He had driven his own car, an old T-Model Ford, to the Hospital, had parked it in the parking space, had gotten the water, and just as Miss Glover approached the spot where the automobile was parked, Slaughter undertook to crank his machine, preparatory to returning to the Biological Laboratory.

Just as Miss Glover reached a point at the rear of Slaughter's car, the engine of the car started, and in some way the mechanism of the reverse gear of the car became engaged and the car was driven violently backward, running over Miss Glover and killing her almost instantly.

Miss Glover is survived by a brother and a sister, neither of whom was in any way dependent upon her. She is survived also by her mother, Mrs. Isabel Glover. At the time of Miss Glover's death and for six months prior thereto, her mother had been living with her in a room which Miss Glover rented in Charlottesville, and had been entirely dependent for her support upon the earnings of her daughter, which, at the time of her death, amounted to $37.50 per week.

The facts with reference to the total dependency, and all other facts connected with the accident, have been thoroughly investigated both by Mr. Carruthers and by myself. Tanner Slaughter had no public liability insurance upon his car, and, in our opinion, the case is one of liability upon the University under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law of Virginia.

Under Section 39 of that law burial expenses not exceeding $150.00 should be paid, and compensation should be paid to the dependent mother at the rate of $14.00 per week for a period of three hundred weeks.

I beg to present for your consideration copy of contract prepared on Form #35 of the Industrial Commission of Virginia, under which we agree to pay Mrs. Glover the amounts referred to above. It is my recommendation that the Board adopt the following resolution -

"Upon consideration of the facts attending the fatal injury to Miss Mary Glover, which occurred at the University Hospital on the 20th of February, 1932, taking into consideration the fact that Mrs. Isabel Glover, mother of said Miss Mary Glover, was entirely dependent upon her said daughter at the time of the accident, it is,

RESOLVED, that Mr. John L. Newcomb, Acting President, be and is hereby requested to execute the contract presented to this Board by the Attorney for the University, under which the University agrees to pay the said Mrs. Glover the sum of $150.00, burial expenses, and compensation at the rate of $14.00 per week, payable each week for three hundred weeks from the date of said injury, February 20th, 1932, or until her death if death occurs before expiration of said three hundred weeks, and E. I. Carruthers, Bursar of the University, is hereby authorized and requested to make the payments to said Mrs. Glover, provided for under said contract."

On the 20th of February, 1932, Miss Mary Glover, a trained nurse attached to the staff of the University Hospital, in the discharge of some of her duties about the Hospital, came out of the building and started across the parking space at the rear of the Hospital. Tanner Slaughter, a colored man, employed as janitor at the Biological Laboratory, had been sent to the Hospital to get some distilled water for use at the Laboratory. He had driven his own car, an old T-Model Ford, to the Hospital, had parked it in the parking space, had gotten the water, and just as Miss Glover approached the spot where the automobile was parked, Slaughter undertook to crank his machine, preparatory to returning to the Biological Laboratory.

Just as Miss Glover reached a point at the rear of Slaughter's car, the engine of the car started, and in some way the mechanism of the reverse gear of the car became engaged and the car was driven violently backward, running over Miss Glover and killing her almost instantly.

Miss Glover is survived by a brother and a sister, neither of whom was in any way dependent upon her. She is survived also by her mother, Mrs. Isabel Glover. At the time of Miss Glover's death and for six months prior thereto, her mother had been living with her in a room which Miss Glover rented in Charlottesville, and had been entirely dependent for her support upon the earnings of her daughter, which, at the time of her death, amounted to $37.50 per week.

The facts with reference to the total dependency, and all other facts connected with the accident, have been thoroughly investigated both by Mr. Carruthers and by myself. Tanner Slaughter had no public liability insurance upon his car, and, in our opinion, the case is one of liability upon the University under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law of Virginia.

Under Section 39 of that law burial expenses not exceeding $150.00 should be paid, and compensation should be paid to the dependent mother at the rate of $14.00 per week for a period of three hundred weeks.

I beg to present for your consideration copy of contract prepared on Form #35 of the Industrial Commission of Virginia, under which we agree to pay Mrs. Glover the amounts referred to above. It is my recommendation that the Board adopt the following resolution -

"Upon consideration of the facts attending the fatal injury to Miss Mary Glover, which occurred at the University Hospital on the 20th of February, 1932, taking into consideration the fact that Mrs. Isabel Glover, mother of said Miss Mary Glover, was entirely dependent upon her said daughter at the time of the accident, it is,

RESOLVED, that Mr. John L. Newcomb, Acting President, be and is hereby requested to execute the contract presented to this Board by the Attorney for the University, under which the University agrees to pay the said Mrs. Glover the sum of $150.00, burial expenses, and compensation at the rate of $14.00 per week, payable each week for three hundred weeks from the date of said injury, February 20th, 1932, or until her death if death occurs before expiration of said three hundred weeks, and E. I. Carruthers, Bursar of the University, is hereby authorized and requested to make the payments to said Mrs. Glover, provided for under said contract."
