---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1933'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1933) December 4, 1933
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 4, 1933

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A called meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock with the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Garnett, Munford, Rinehart, Stuart and R. C. Williams, and President Newcomb present.

The special purpose for which the meeting was called was to consider making application to the Federal Works Administration of the Federal Government for a loan and grant for the erection of a private ward at the University Hospital. The Committee, appointed at the last meeting of the Board to consider the matter met on the evening of December 3, with Rinehart and R. Gray Williams present, together with Dr. Flippin, Dean of the Medical Department of the University, Dr. Lentz, Superintendent of the Hospital, Dr. Neff and Dr. Goodwin of the Medical Staff, considered the matter.

The Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that application be made, and moved the following resolution which was unanimously adopted:

Be it RESOLVED that,

1\. For a number of years past this Board and the officers of the University have recognized the urgent need for a building, properly designed and of adequate size, to take care of a certain class of private patients in the University Hospital; the building now in use by the Hospital being entirely inadequate.

2\. In view of this fact, we are of the opinion that the provision of an Act of Congress of the United States, known as the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved on June 16, 1933, and any acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, taken in conjunction with the provisions of an Act of the Legislature of Virginia known as Chapter 49, approved by the Governor on September 12, 1933, which acts taken together provide a means whereby the erection of such a building as we need may be economically and practically financed shall be taken advantage of in order that the required fund may be obtained with which to supply this urgent need.

3\. We therefore propose to issue the bonds of this Corporation to the extent of $190,697.00, which shall bear interest at the rate of 4%, said interest to be paid, said bonds to respectively mature, and such provision for the amortization of said bonds to be fixed in strict accordance with the provision of the Acts above referred to.

4\. In order to provide for the payment of principal and interest of said bonds, and the cost of issuing same, this Board will hereafter, by proper resolution, pledge a sufficient part of the revenue and receipts to be derived either directly or indirectly from the operation of this private patient pavilion, and a specific sum from said source shall be specifically set apart to be applied not only to such payment of principal and interest, but to the maintenance and operation of said private patient pavilion, and specific provision will be made covering all said requirements of either or both of the Acts above referred to in so far as said Act or either of them may bear upon the specific project in view.

5\. The President and a Committee from this Board are hereby requested to submit a copy of this resolution to the Governor requesting that he signify his consent to the plan expressed therein, and if the Governor approves said plan, the President is further requested to have prepared and submitted to this Board, at its next regular or special meeting, a detailed plan for the issuance of said bonds and the payment thereof in accordance with the terms of the Acts above referred to.

The President read a letter from the City Manager of the City of Charlottesville requesting that University to donate a strip of land 12 feet in width along the south side of University Avenue from the University gateway to the West Range Road for the purpose of widening said avenue. The matter was considered, and it was agreed that the President should get the opinion of the State Highway Commissioner as to the need for increasing the width of said avenue along the front of the University's property, and also the opinion of the Attorney General as to the power of the University to make such grant.

The meeting then adjourned.
