---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1936'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1936) July 21, 1936
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 21, 1936

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Board was held on this date to consider plans for the addition to the University Hospital for use as a psychiatric ward, and the proposed new library building, and such other matters as may be presented:

There were present the Rector and Visitors Garnett, Rinehart, Stuart, Williams, L. C. and Williams, R. Gray.

With respect to widening the road in front of the Hospital, from the Entrance to the Chain gate, it was explained that the bids submitted to the State Highway Department were in excess of the fund of $5,000 allocated therefor, and that the University could make the improvement within the said sum. The following motion, duly made and seconded, was adopted:

WHEREAS The Highway Department of the Commonwealth of Virginia did allocate Five-thousand and No/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) for widening the road in front of the University of Virginia Hospital in accordance with the Specifications of Virginia Department of Highways, pages 65, 69, 90, 95 and 207 and the Plan and Profile of Proposed State Highway Albemarle County from 0.019 Mile W. of Main Street Charlottesville, Virginia, to 0.216 W. of Intersection Main Street, Charlottesville, Virginia, Sheets 1 to 4 inclusive.

AND WHEREAS Only one bid was received by the aforesaid Highway Department for this work.

AND WHEREAS The bid received was in excess of the allocated funds.

AND WHEREAS The University of Virginia can do all of the work contemplated for the allocated sum.

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia do authorize the Rector of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to enter into a contract with the Highway Department of the Commonwealth of Virginia to do the aforesaid work for the sum of Five-thousand and No/100 Dollars ($5,000.00).

With respect to plans for the proposed addition to the University Hospital for use as Neuro-Psychiatric ward, the following motion by Mr. Garnett, seconded by R. Gray Williams, was adopted:

RESOLVED, that Mr. R. E. Lee Taylor be employed to make a study for the proposed Neuro-Psychiatric Addition to the Hospital, University of Virginia, and to bring to the next meeting of the Board sketches for the purpose, at a cost not to exceed $500.00.

With respect to the northern elevation of the proposed libiary building, Mr. R. E. Lee Taylor, the Architect, presented revised drawings of said elevation which were examined by the Board, together with the preliminary sketches, and approved.

Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, reported that he had received an offer of $500 for the 56 acre tract of cut-over unimproved land, located in Dinwiddie County, being part of the property taken in settlement of bonds in the Seward estate. The offer was referred to Mr. Corbitt for investigation and report at a future meeting, he being well acquainted with conditions and values in that section.

The meeting then adjourned.
