---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1937'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Gifts:
------

From the Rockefeller Foundation, for the use of Professor J. W. Beams during the two-year period February 1, 1937 to January 31, 1939, in developing electrical and steam driving mechanisms for vacuum ultra-centrifuges

$8,000

From the Estate of William H. Wilmer, to be used for equipment in the Eye Clinic

1,000

From the Estate of Walter Randolph, $1,000 (less 10% inheritance tax, State of Michigan)

900

From Mrs. Hicks Arnold, fifty shares common stock Radio Corporation of America, approximate value

583

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Hall, Rinehart and Lewis C. Williams and President Newcomb present.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Corbitt was elected Rector pro tem.

Minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

President Newcomb made the following announcements:

Enrollment to date 2,572.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the leave of absence of Dr. Wayne Dennis, Asst. Prof. of Psychology, was extended for the session of 1937-38 without pay.

Resignation of James G. Driver was presented, effective March 1, 1937, and accepted in the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the resignation of Mr. James Glenn Driver, former Professor and Director of Athletics, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective March 1, 1937. The Board wishes to record its appreciation of his loyal services to the University, and wishes for him the highest success in his new undertakings.

A letter from Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Miller Professor of Biology, dated January 6th, together with a statement concerning Dr. Everett F. Davis, and another letter from Dr. Lewis to President Newcomb under date of February 6th, and a copy of President Newcomb's letter to Dr. Davis, under date of March 3rd, were presented to the Board and ordered filed with the minutes of this meeting.

After a full discussion of the subject of these letters and statement on the part of the Board, and after most sympathetic consideration thereof, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the appointment of Dr. Everett F. Davis, Assistant Professor of Biology in the University of Virginia, be terminated as of June 15, 1937.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following elections to the faculty were had:

John Ritchie III, Professor of Law, at a base salary of $4500 per annum, incumbency to begin September 15, 1937.

Dr. Karl R. Wallace, Associate Professor of Public Speaking, at a base salary of $3,750, incumbency to begin September 15, 1937.

Dr. Ladley Husted, Assistant Professor of Biology, at a base salary of $2,800, incumbency to begin September 15, 1937.

Frank J. Murray, Head Coach of Football, for the year beginning March 1, 1937 and closing February 23, 1938, at a salary of $7,500 for the twelve months' period.

The President read a proposal from Dr. W. M. Forrest with respect to retiring annuities of members of the faculty who entered the services of the University prior to November 17, 1915, and after some discussion of the matter it was referred to a committee consisting of the President, Rinehart and Stuart to prepare and present a plan for retirement annuities for such members.

The President presented an agreement made with the Highway Department of the Commonwealth for right of way along the Pantops property, made in October, 1935, in which the consideration for the strip of land to be used in widening the highway along the said property was $129.00, together with a letter from the said Department calling attention to the fact that it was not permitted to compensate a State Institution for such easement, and requesting that the same be stricken from the contract. Upon consideration of the matter the Rector was authorized to sign a new contract on behalf of the Rector and Visitors, with a nominal consideration of $1.00.

The President presented a letter from Dr. A. M. Fauntleroy with respect to a bequest of his brother to the University, which, after consideration, was referred to the attorney for the University for report.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, reported that he had received an offer of $500 for the 52 acres of land located in the vicinity of Petersburg, being part of the Seward bequest, and the acceptance of same was agreed to provided it had the approval of Mr. Corbitt to whom the sale of the said property had been referred at a previous meeting.

Mr. Perkins presented to the Board a letter addressed to him by Mrs. Mary C. Boisseau under date of March 18th, in which she recommends giving an option upon the 342 acre farm in Dinwiddie County, formerly owned by the Estate of Walter J. Branch, deceased, and Mrs. Boisseau, and in which the interest of said Branch has been transferred to the University in the settlement of the Estate of Walter M. Seward, deceased.

Mr. Perkins also presented an appraisal report on this property, prepared by Mr. A. S. Harrison, Jr., and C. B. Palmer, of Lawrenceville, Virginia, under date of August 7th, 1935.

After a full consideration of the whole matter, it was thereupon

RESOLVED that the President be, and is hereby, authorized to execute on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and along with Mrs. Mary C. Boisseau a contract by which an option shall be given to Cabell R. Butterworth, of Dinwiddie, Virginia, to purchase this 342 acres of land at the net price of $2300.00 at any time during the thirty days succeeding the 1st day of April 1937.

And should said Butterworth desire to exercise said option within said thirty-day period the President is further authorized to execute and deliver to him, or to such person or persons as he may designate, a deed by which said property shall be conveyed to said Butterworth or to any purchaser named by him. And the Secretary of this Board is hereby authorized to affix the seal to said deed and deliver the same upon the purchasers compliance with the terms of sale, the President and Secretary being hereby given full authority to fix such terms of sale as they may deem wise.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned.
