---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1937'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTS:RESIGNATIONS:
-------------------

From Mr. J. E. N. Hume as a memorial to his father, a Drinking Fountain and seat, costing

$7,500

Residence

Institution

Amount

Belong on the Summer list p. 235

Bass, Henry M.

Suffolk

Howard U.

50.00

Gardner, Arthur Lee

Richmond

Was. Sq. Col. NYC

75.00

Harris, Ethel Ramsey

Richmond

U. of Chicago

50.00

Jackson, Alice C.

Richmond

Columbia U.

75.00

Vick, Geo. L.

Portsmouth

Cornell U.

75.00

Barksdale, bessie C.

So. Boston

Michigan

56.85

Boone, Elwood Bernard

Petersburg

Michigan

56.85

Lyman B. Brooks

Blakes

Michigan

56.85

Cavell, Winston, W.

Richmond

Michigan

56.85

Cox, Frances Catherine

Ettrick

Columbia

75.00

Davis, Arthur P.

Richmond

Columbia

75.00

Ealey, Roland Duek

Richmond

Howard-Law

50.00

Eason, John Corbett, Jr.

Richmond

Howard-Law Grad/

50.00

Foster, Richard W.

Richmond

U. Mich.

56.85

Foster, Virginia P.

Petersburg

Columbia

75.00

Gardner, Arthur L.

Richmond

N. Y. U.

75.00

Greer, Louise E.

Charlottesville

Cornell U.

75.00

Harris, Ethel R.

Richmond

Chicago U.

100.00

Henderson, Annie Va.

Richmond

Michigan

56.85

Jackson, Alice C.

Richmond

Columbia U.

75.00

Jeffreys, Richard L.

Chase City

Michigan

56.85

Jeffries, Louise F.

Richmond

Chicago

100.00

Kyles, Blanche Marie

Norfolk

Columbia

75.00

Lockett, J. L.

Ettrick

Rutgers

$75.00

Miller, Allie Mildred

Clifton Forge

Columbia

75.00

Mitchell, Wm. E. Jr.

Richmond

Columbia

75.00

Palmer, Edward N.

Newport News

Michigan

56.85

Porter, Mrs. Harriet B.

Petersburg

Columbia

75.00

Pretlow, Joselyn C.

Smithfield

Columbia

75.00

Robinson, Celina B.

Ettrick

Penna.

75.00

Segear, James E.

Richmond

Penna.

75.00

Shaw, Mrs. Marg. Wysong

Salem

Fisk

50.00

Smith, Bernard S.

Richmond

Chicago

50.00

Smith, Ola M.

Richmond

Michigan

56.85

Spaulding, Julia E.

Newport News

Chicago

50.00

Spencer, Alroy

Lynchburg

Columbia

75.00

Spiller, Wm. M.

Norfolk

Michigan

56.85

Tidline, Nellie Frances

Richmond

Cornell

75.00

Turner, Henry V.

Norfolk

C. C. Ny.

50.00

Vick, Geo. L.

Portsmouth

Cornell

75.00

Wingo, Donald C.

Amelia

Michigan

56.85

Melvin, Horace W.

Newport News

Fisk

50.00

Total

$2,977.83

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date with the Rector, Frederic W. Scott, Visitors Corbitt, Lewis C. Williams, R. Gray Williams, Wm. A. Stuart, Hollis Rinehart, C. B. Garnett and President Newcomb, present.

The President submitted the following report.

Enrollment, 2,584.

From the Seven Society, the annual gift to be added to the General Loan Fund $7

From the Estate of Miss Jennie Davis, of harrisonburg, a very handsome bookcase and 367 valuable books.

Dr. John Calvin Metcalf, Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies,

Mr. Stringfellow Barr, Professor of History.

Dr. Piet vande Kamp, Assistant Prof. of Astronomy.

The following motion was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. John Calvin Metcalf as Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies be accepted with very keen regret. The members of the Board appreciate his desire to be relieved of further administrative duties in order that he may devote his full time to teaching; and they desire to record their appreciation of his distinguished service in building up the Department during the fourteen years that he has been its administrative head. This resignation is effective July 1, 1937.

The following motion was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Frank Stringfellow Barr as Professor of History in the University be accepted with deep regret. The members of the Board wish him the highest success in his work as Visiting Professor of Liberal Arts in the University of Chicago.

The following motion was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Piet van de Kamp, Assistant Professor of Astronomy in the University, be accepted with regret. Dr. van de Kamp has carried forward his duties at this Institution with devotion and skill and the members of the Board wish for him continued success in his new field.

ELECTIONS:

Upon recommendation of the President Dr. James Southall Wilson was elected Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies at a Salary of $500., as set forth in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. James Southall Wilson be and is hereby elected Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies at a salary of $500.00.

Upon recommendation of the President the following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. John Henry Rushton be and he is hereby elected Professor of Chemical Engineering in the University, at a salary of $4500., incumbency to begin September, 15, 1937.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Claude C. Coleman be and he is hereby elected Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery in the University, without salary.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. William Gayle Crutchfield be and he is hereby elected Associate Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery, without salary.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John Moyer Meredith be and he is hereby elected Assistant Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery at a salary of $3,000.

RESOLVED, BY THE Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that 1. Martin Leavitt be and he is hereby elected Acting Assistant Professor of Law for the Session of 1937-38 at a salary of $2,400, incumbency to begin September 13, 1937.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that John Black Sirich be continued as Acting Assistant Professor of History for the Session of 1937-38, at a salary of $2,800.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Claude M. Anderson be and he is hereby elected Instructor in Astronomy for the Session of 1937-38, at a salary of 1,800.

PROMOTIONS:

Upon the recommendation of the President the following promotions were made:

Frank A. Geldard Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, at a base salary of $4,500.

Charles P. Nash, Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, at a base salary of $4,500.

Alexander Vyssotsky, Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Associate Professor of Astronomy, at a base salary of $3,750.

Cuthbert Tunstall, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Diseases of Nose and Throat, without salary.

R. R. Thompson, to Full Time Instructor in Ancient Languages, at a salary of $1,800.

A request was made to fix a price on the Miller Farm at Elkton, Virginia. This matter was referred to Mr. R. Gray Williams for investigation and Mr. Williams will make a report at a future date.

An architect's sketch of the Memorial Fountain given by Mr. J. E. N. Hume was presented to the Board and approved.

A proposal to widen Route 250 from Rugby Road to Route 29 was approved subject to inspection.

Dr. Geo. O. Ferguson, Jr., Chairman of the Students Admission Application Committee, appointed at a meeting of the Board June 8, 1936, under provisions of Chapter 352 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, reported that admission had been denied to the following qualified students to enter the Graduate Department of the University; that they had made arrangements to enter these schools and to receive the amounts as follows:

The 1937-38 Budget was presented to the Board and Mr. R. Gray Williams offered a resolution of approval which was unanimously adopted. The Budget carried estimated receipts of $2,306,684, and estimated expenditures of $2,296,745. A copy will be found filed in the Budget File in the Secretary's Office.

The New Building Committee was given authority in the matter of the fill of dirt for the New Library.

It was decided that in the event of Pantops Farm being sold, that the President would communicate with Mr. McIntire before any action was taken.

A committee of the Board consisting of William A. Stuart, Chairman, James H. Corbitt, Lewis C. Williams, C. O'Conor Goolrick, R. Gray Williams and C. B. Garnett, was appointed to confer with a committee of the Law School and the President concerning the subject of the failure of graduates of our Law School before the Virginia State Board of Law Examiners.

The meeting then adjourned.
