---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1939'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1939) June 7, 1939
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 7, 1939

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

6 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Gifts:Leaves of Absence:Promotions:Elections:DEGREES, DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING:FOREIGN LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT, COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES:REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT OF STUDENTS:RELEASE TO HAROLD TESSLER IN TUITION BILL:PWA DOCKET Va-1312-F, RESTORATION OF THE ROTUNDA, APPROVED:EXTENSION OF TIME AND WAIVER OF LIQUIDATING DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH CONTRACT NO. 1-GENERAL CONTRACT (OMITTING HEATING AND ELEVATOR WORK) ON NEURO-PSYCHIATRIC ADDITION UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL, P.W.A. PROJECT NO. Va-1101-F:EXTENSION OF TIME AND WAIVER OF LIQUIDATING DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH CONTRACT NO. 2HEATING AND VENTILATING, AND CONTRACT NO. 3-ELEVATOR WORK ON NEURO-PSYCHIATRIC ADDITION UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL P.W.A. PROJECT NO. Va-1101-F:EXTENSION OF TIME AND WAIVER OF LIQUIDATING DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH CONTRACTS NOS. 4 to 18, BOTH INCLUSIVE, COVERING EQUIPMENT FOR THE FOREGOING PROJECT:XI CHAPTER, THETA CHI, ALUMNI CORPORATION BUILDING LOT:EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD FOR 1939-40:ELECTIONS DURING SUMMER MONTHS:RYAN SCHOLARSHIP APPOINTMENTS:APPOINTMENT OF INSTRUCTORS, ASSISTANTS, STUDENT ASSISTANTS, SCHOLARSHIP AND FELLOWSHIP HOLDERS:BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 1939-40 APPROVED:ASSOCIATES IN NEURO-PSYCHIATRY:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Research Corporation for assistant to Dr. Beams in his investigation with the centrifuge method in separation of isotores of the heavier elements, and other studies

$2,000.00

From the Seven Society, annual Founder's Day gift, to be added to their loan fund

77.00

Bachelor of Chemical Engineering

B.Ch. E.

Bachelor of Civil Engineering

B. C. E.

Bachelor of Electrical Engineering

B. E. E.

Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering

B. M. E.

Contract No.

To

Amount

Description

36

Barnes Lumber Corp. Charlottesville, Va.

$ 174.00

Paving Brick

37

Westinghouse Elec. Sup. Co. Richmond, Va.

188.02

3,000' galvanized conduit

40

R. E. Richardson & Son Richmond, Va.

1,180.80

Millwork (wdw. frames, etc.)

42

General Elec. Sup. Corp. Richmond, Va.

325.00

Five Panel Boxes

43

John T. Lewis & Bros. Philadelphia, Pa.

275.78

White Lead

44

Harris Hardware Co. Charlottesville, Va.

276.36

Bay State white Paint

45

Barnes Lumber Corp. be and they are hereby approved.

676.00

Doors and Frames

CONTRACT NO. 4

\- with RITCHIE ELECTRIC CO., Electrical Fixtures, fans, Etc.

CONTRACT NO. 5

\- with GILMORE, HAMM & SNYDER, Steel & Wood Furniture

CONTRACT NO. 6

\- with THE HILL-ROM COMPANY, Wood Furniture and Equipment

CONTRACT NO. 7

\- with WALTER LEARS & SONS, Hospital Beds, Mattresses, Etc.

CONTRACT NO. 8

\- with COLSON-MERRIAM CO., FOOD Conveyors

CONTRACT NO. 9

\- with JOHN G. KOLBE, China

CONTRACT NO. 10

\- with FLOWERS SCHOOL EQUIPMENT CO., Sheets, Blankets, Etc.

CONTRACT NO. 11

\- with BARKER-JENNINGS HARDWARE CORP., Utensils

CONTRACT NO. 12

\- with POWERS & ANDERSON, INC., Sterilizers

CONTRACT NO. 13

\- with OMOHUNDRO ELECTRIC CO., Electric Refrigerators

CONTRACT NO. 14

\- with CHARLOTTESVILLE HARDWARE CO., Gas Ranges

CONTRACT NO. 15

\- with THE JOHN VAN RANGE COMPANY, Kitchen Equipment

CONTRACT NO. 16

\- with GILMORE, HAMM & SNYDER, Dining Room Furniture

CONTRACT NO. 17

\- with MAX WOCHER & SON CO., Wheel Chairs, Stretchers, Etc.

CONTRACT NO. 18

\- with GILMORE, HAMM & SNYDER, Furniture for Solariums and Roof Garden; Draperies and Shades.

First district

William Cary Fleming

Second district

Robert W. Alfriend

Third district

Thomas I. Storrs

Fourth district

Donald T. Faulkner

Fifth district

Clarence T. Callahan

Sixth district

Otis Lee Updike, Jr.

Seventh district

Carl Millard Long

Eighth district

William Scott Willis

Ninth district

Elmer Lewis Kelly

Tenth district

Fred E. Cleveland, Jr.

Estimated income

$2,664,775

Estimated expenses

2,658,604

Estimated surplus

$ 6,171

The Annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following present. Visitors Corbitt, Goolrick, Rinehart, Tucker, L. C. Williams and R. Gray Williams, and President Newcomb.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Lewis C. Williams was elected Rector pro tem.

The President made the following announcements.

Total enrollment for the session of 1938-39 2,933.

Resignations: effective June 15, 1939.

Dr. Armistead Mason Dobie, Dean of the Department of Law and Professor of Law, accepted.

The Governing Board of the University congratulates him upon his appointment as District United States Judge for the Western District of Virginia, and wishes for him the highest success in his new work. The Board also desires to record its great appreciation of his long and distinguished service to the University of Virginia as Professor of Law, and genuinely regrets the loss of his services to the University.

Professor William Mentzel Forrest, Professor of Biblical History and Literature, accepted:

Professor Forrest having reached the retiring age of 70, this Board desires to record its appreciation of his long and disginguished service to the University of Virginia, and wishes for him many years of happiness and usefulness in his retirement.

Dr. Frank W. Foote, Assistant Professor of Pathology, accepted. Dr. Foote has accepted a fellowship from the National Cancer Institute in order to pursue his studies of tumors at the Memorial Hospital in New York, and the Governing Board wishes for him the greatest success in his new work.

Dr. Alfred W. Fleer, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, accepted. The Governing Board wishes for him the greatest success in his new work.

Dr. William H. Parker, for session 1939-40, in order to pursue special studies in the field of cancer in the Memorial Hospital in New York.

Dr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, for the session 1939-40, for the purpose of pursuing special studies in his chosen field at the University of Michigan.

Mr. George B. Zehmer, Associate Professor of Education, Dean of the Summer Quarter, and Director of Extension, to full professorship.

Dr. Archibald A. Hill, Associate Professor of English, to Professor of English, at a salary of $4500 beginning with the session of 1939-40.

Dr. William Stone Weedon, Instructor in Philosophy to Assistant Professor of Philosophy beginning with the session of 1939-40, at a salary of $2800.

Dr. Harvey Ernest Jordan, Dean of the Department of Medicine, at a salary of $500.00 per year, effective July 1, 1939.

Professor Frederick Deane Goodwin Ribble, Dean of the Department of Law, at a salary of $500 per year, effective July 1, 1939.

Dr. Eugene M. Landis, Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of $9000 per annum, incumbency to begin September 15, 1939.

Dr. John Leonard Fulmer, Associate Professor of Rural Economics, at a salary of $3,750 per annum, incumbency to begin September 15, 1939.

Dr. Samuel A. Vest, Associate Professor of Urology and Head of the Department of Urology, at a salary of $1500 per annum from the University, with permission to retain 50% of the gross earnings from the Department of Urology in an amount not to exceed $6,000, for a total compensation not to exceed $7,500 for the session of 1939-40, Incumbency to begin July 1, 1939.

Dr. Edgar Wilson Kirby, Assistant Professor of Urology and Proctology at a salary from the University of $600 per annum, with permission to retain 30% of the gross earnings of the Department, not to exceed $3,600, for a total compensation not to exceed $4200 for the session of 1939-40.

Dr. David McCord Wright, Assistant Professor of Commerce and Business Administration, at a salary of $2800 per annum, incumbency to begin with the session of 1939-40.

Dr. C. Vann Woodward, Visiting Assistant Professor of History, at a salary of $2,000 for the session of 1939-40, effective September 15, 1939.

Mr. John W. Wheeler-Bennett, Lecturer in internationaal Law and Relations, with an honorarium of $500 for the session of 1939-40.

Mr. George W. Cox, Jr., Instructor in Education for the session of 1939-40 at a salary of $1660.

Mr. Herbert E. Newman, Instructor in Economics for the session of 1939-40 at a salary of $1200.

Dr. William R. Hill, Instructor in Surgery & Gynecology, at a salary of $2500 per annum. This appointment is for the period of Dr. Parker's leave of absence.

Mrs. Lucy W. Page and Miss Mildred N. Page deed to the University:

Mr. Perkins stated to the Board that by deed dated October 12, 1934, Mrs. Lucy W. Page and Miss Mildred N. Page conveyed to the University the house and lot where they then resided, situated on Chancellor Street, reserving a life estate in themselves jointly for their joint lives and to the survivor, the purpose of the gift being to establish a fund for the benefit of the general library of the University, and in commemoration of Mr. Frederick W. Page for many years Librarian. He also stated that at the time this deed was executed Miss Mildred N. Page wished to convey the property in fee to the University and have the property leased to Mrs. Page and herself. Mrs. Page preferred the plan however of reserving a life estate, and out of deference to her mother's wishes, Miss Page consented to the form of conveyance which was made.

Mrs. Lucy W. Page died October 13, 1938, amd Miss Mildred N. Page now desires to convey to the University the life estate in said property now owned by her, upon consideration of the University executing a lease of the oroperty to her for life, the rental of course to be a nominal amount. Mr. Perkins presented a deed executed and acknowledged by Miss Mildred N. Page, conveying said life estate to the University. He also presented a form of lease of said property by which the University rents to Miss Mildred N. Page, for the term of her life for the consideration of the annual rental of $1.00.

It was thereupon

RESOLVED that this deed be and is accepted with grateful acknowledgement of the Board, and that the Rector is hereby authorized to execute the lease to Miss Mildred N. Page in the form presented to this meeting, the Secretary being authorized to affix the seal thereto and deliver copy of said lease to said Miss Mildred N. Page.

The following recommendation of the Engineering faculty, approved by the President, with respect to change in Engineering degrees:

Beginning with the session 1939-40, the University will discontinue the present first degree in Engineering, i.3., B. S. in Engineering, and will award the following degrees:

Upon the recommendation of the Academic Faculty and with the approval of the University Senate and the President, the following was approved:

(1) That the foreign language requirement for the degree of Bachelor of Arts be as follows: Either (a) a second-year college course (a2) in each of two foreign languages one of which must be French, German, Greek or Latin; Or (b) a third-year college course (b1) in French, German, Greek or Latin.

(2) That the degree of Bachelor of Science be offered only as a professional or vocational degree and not as a cultural degree.

Upon the recommendation of the Dean of the University, with the approval of the University Senate, the following changes in the regulations governing conduct of students printed in the General Catalogue, page 168, be and the same are hereby approved:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia

(1) That in the first paragraph of the regulations governing the conduct of students, after the word "drunkenness" insert the words "drinking in public."

(2) Add to paragraph 2 the following "The President reserves the right to demand the resignation of any student whose conduct, while not sufficiently objectionable to warrant dismissal, tends either to being just criticism on the University or to serve as bad influence on other students."

(3) Change the wording in paragraph 4 to read as follows "Issuance, distribution or sale of anonymous publications is forbidden."

PAVILION #10 ON THE LAWN; Assigned to Prof. L. G. Hoxton.

Resolved, that the President be and he is hereby authorized to execute a release to Harold Tessler in the settlement of his tuition bill of $127.00 for the session of 1932-33 by the payment of a compromise payment of $75.00 accepted in full settlement.

The list of contracts enumerated below on PWA Docket Va-1213-F, Restoration of the Rotunda, was formally presented and the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

Be it Resolved by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that:

Be it further Resolved that any and all action heretofore taken by the University of Virginia, its officers or agents, with reference to any one or more of these said contracts be and the same are hereby approved, ratified and confirmed, and Frank E. Hartman, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, is hereby directed, authorized and empowered to execute any and all of said contracts as enumerated above in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Secretary is hereby authorized to affix the seal of the University of Virginia and attest the same.

Upon application of John C. Senter, contractor for the foregoing work, the following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, The Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works requires that all extensions of time in connection with all contracts on P.W.A. Project No. Va. 1101-F (Hsopital Addition) be authorized by this body; and

WHEREAS, the brick had to be burned special to meet the specifications requiring that the brick match the brick of another hospital building in color and texture; and

WHEREAS, the two kilns which were being burnt when the order was given, and from which it was expected sufficient face brick to meet the specification requirements could be selected, did not provide brick to meet the specifications; and

WHEREAS, it was then found necessary to make and burn another kiln of brick, which delayed the starting of brick work fifteen (15) calendar days; and

WHEREAS, fifteen (15) days is a fair and reasonable time to allow for this cause; and

WHEREAS, due to non-delivery of acceptable brick, the brickwork had to be done in the winter months; and

WHEREAS, there were an abnormal number of wet days during January and February, 1939, which delayed the brickwork fifteen (15) calendar days; and

WHEREAS, the roughing in of the plumbing work could not be started until the two story addition over the hospital preventorium was made watertight, as it had to extend through the roof of the old building; and

WHEREAS, when this work was started there was a lack of skilled mechanics which prevented its being rushed to completion and this caused a delay of fifteen (15) calendar days; and

WHEREAS, fifteen (15) calendar days is a fair and reasonable time to allow for this difficulty; and

WHEREAS, the extra time involved in the aforesaid contract amounts to fifteen (15), fifteen (15) and fifteen (15) calendar days respectively did not run concurrently but occurred at different times and therefore are separate and distinct items; and

WHEREAS, the contractor has requested an extension of time in an amount totalling forty-five (45) calendar days; and

WHEREAS, it is our contractual obligation to grant extensions of time and waive liquidated damages where extra work is required under the contract and where said extra work warrants extra time in the completion date to permit its execution; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia will suffer no loss of revenue from the project by granting an extension of time and therefore coulo not collect liquidated damages; and

WHEREAS, the substantiating data required by P.W.A. is attached herewith;

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the extension of time and waiver of liquidated damages in connection with Contract No. 1, General Contract, (omitting Heating and Elevator Work), with John C. Senter, from August 1st, 1939 to and including September 15th, 1939.

Upon application of the contractors for the foregoing work, the following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, The Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works requires that all extensions of time and waiver of liquidated damages in connection with all contracts for PWA Project Va. 1101-F (Hospital Addition) be authorized by this body; and

WHEREAS, due to non-delivery of acceptable face brick, abnormal weather conditions and inability of the plumbing sub-contractor to secure sufficient skilled labor to complete his work in the minimum number of days required for this work, it has been necessary to extend the time of completion of the General Contract (Contract No. 1) from August 1st, 1939, to, and including, September 15th, 1939; and

WHEREAS, the work covered by these mechanical contracts is so interrelated with the work of Contract No. 1 that their completion depends upon the completion of Contract No. 1; and

WHEREAS the University of Virginia will suffer no loss of revenue from the project by granting extension of time, and therefore could not collect liquidated damages; and

WHEREAS, the substantiating data required by PWA is attached herewith;

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the extension of time and waiver of liquidated damages from August 1st, 1939 to and including September 15th, 1939, on the following contracts:

CONTRACT NO. 2 with WILLIAMS COMPANY - Heating and Ventilating,

CONTRACT NO. 3 with SALEM FOUNDRY AND MACHINE WORKS, INC., Elevator Work.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS The Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works requires that all extensions of time and waiver of liquidated damages in connection with all contracts for P. W. A. Project No. Va. 1101-F (Hospital Addition) be authorized by this body; and

WHEREAS due to non-delivery of acceptable face brick, abnormal weather conditions and inabiligy of the plumbing sub-contractor to secure sufficient skilled labor to complete his work in the minimum number of days required for this work it has been necessary to extend the time of completion of the General Contract, (Contract No. 1), from August 1st, 1939, to and including September 15th, 1939; and

WHEREAS our contractual obligations in connection with all of these contracts require that, if the time of completion of the building contract is extended, the time of completion of these contracts will be extended a reasonable amount; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable to have all furniture and equipment contracts terminate on the same say; and

WHEREAS, it is a distinct advantage to allow as much time as possible in connection with these contracts so as to get the equipment in place after the building is ready to receive the same; and

WHEREAS, the completion date for the contracts on the aforementioned project have been extended as follows:

Contracts Nos. 1 to 3 from August 1, 1939 to September 15, 1939, and

Contracts Nos. 4 to 18, inclusive, from August 15, 1939 to September 23, 1939; an

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia will suffer no loss of revenue from the project by granting extensions of time, and therefore could not collect liquidated damages; and

WHEREAS, the substantiating data required by P.W.A. is attached herewith;

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the extension of time and waiver of oiquidated damages from August 15, 1939, to, and including September 23, 1939, or thirty-nine (39) days, on the following contracts:

The foregoing fraternity was granted a lot on north side of Carr's Hill on which to erect a chapter house to cost not less than $6,500, for a term of eighty-seven years and ninety-two days. (Lease in Bursar's file)

The following members of the Board were named to the Executive Committee: Goolrick, R. Gray Williams, Corbitt, Rinehart and the Rector.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the President, in consultation with the Deans and Committees appointed by the President from the staff, be empowered during the summer to employ those professors who have been authorized by the Board but who have not yet been elected. It is understood that all actions of the President and committees will be brought to the Rector and Board of Visitors for ratification at their next meeting.

The following were appointed to hold the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships from their respective Congressional Districts for the session of 1939-40:

Miscellaneous list approved and will be found entered on payroll and scholarship books.

The following were appointed Associates in Neuro-Psychiatry for the session of 1939-40: for one after a week during the session without remuneration:

Dr. G. B. Arnold, Superintendent of the Colony for Epileptics and Feebleminded, Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. James B. Pettis, Clinical Director, Western State Hospital, Staunton, Va.

Dr. James N. Williams, Director, Bureau of Mental Hygiene, Richmond, Va.

The meeting then adjourned.
