---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1940'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTS:LEAVE OF ABSENCE:ELECTIONS:PROMOTION:INCREASE IN SALARIES:SUMMER APPOINTMENTS:PLANS FOR INTERNES BUILDING:RYAN SCHOLARSHIPS:SCHOLARS, FELLOWS, ETC.JESSE PARKER WILLIAMS SCHOLARSHIP:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mrs. Emma Hume Horner, for the purpose of setting up a trust for the maintenance and repair of the Hume Memorial Drinking Fountain

$2,500.00

From the Emergency Committee in Aid of Displaced Foreign Scholars, toward the salary of Dr. Rudolph Freund, Assistant Professor of Rural Social Economics in the University for the Session 1940-41

$1,000.00

From the General Education Board to supplement the salary of Dr. Rudolph Freund as Assistant Professor of Rural Social Economics, for the Session 1940-41

$ 500.00

From the Research Corporation, to be used for the development of the continuous-flow liquid ultracentrifuge, under the direction of Dr. J. W. Beams

$2,650.00

From Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, in support of research work done by Dr. Alfred Burger in the Department of Chemistry

$1,300.00

From the Class of 1940, to be used as an endowment for the Class of 1940 Book Fund

$ 600.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation for use by Dr. Chanutin in the Medical School

$2,500.00

The annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present: The Rector, R. Gray Williams, Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Miss Randolph, Rinehart and Lewis C. Williams.

Minutes of the last meeting, copied and mailed the members, were approved.

President Newcomb reported the following:

Enrollment: 3013.

Upon the recommendation of the President a leave of absence for Dr. Rowland A. Egger, Director of the Bureau of Public Administration was extended from July 1, 1940 to July 1, 1941.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following elections to the faculty, promotion, and salary increases were voted:

Oscar W. Underwood, Jr., Professor of Law, at a salary of $6,000, incumbency to begin on September 15, 1940.

Daniel Silas Norton, Instructor in English for the session of 1940-41, at a salary of $2,500, incumbency to begin September 15, 1940.

Urban Joseph Peters Rushton, Instructor in English for the session of 1940-41, at a salary of $2,000, incumbency to begin September 15, 1940.

Clarence William Miller, Instructor in English for the session of 1940-41, at a salary of $1,800, incumbency to begin September 15, 1940.

Robert E. Lutz, Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor, with an increase in salary from $4,250 to $4,500 per session, effective September 15, 1940.

John E. Canaday, Asst. Professor of the History of Art, from $3,000 to $3,400, beginning September 15, 1940.

Edward J. McShane, Professor of Mathematics, from $4,500 to $5,000, beginning September 15, 1940.

The followins resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President, in consultation with the Deans and Committees appointed by the President from the staff, be empowered during the summer to employ those professors who have been authorized by the Board, but who have not yet been selected. It is understood that all actions of the President and committees will be brought to the Rector and Visitors for ratification at their next meeting.

The President presented tentative plans for the new Internes' Building, and they were referred to the New Buildings Committee for action.

The following holders of the Thomas Fortune Ryan Scholarships for the session of 1940-41 were appointed:

First District:

Second District:

Third District:

Fourth District:

William Cary Fleming

Henry Clarkson Meredith, Jr.

Luke Harvey Poe, Jr.

Frank Wilson Trainer.

Fifth District:

Sixth District:

Seventh District:

Eighth District:

Ninth District:

Tenth District:

Clarence T. Callahan

Otis Lee Updike, Jr.

Carl Millard Lang.

Walter G. Canham, Jr.

Elmer Lewis Kelley.

Hampton G. Baylor.

The nominations for instructors, assistants, student assistants, scholars, and fellows, whose stipends come from endowments therefor and gifts, were approved, and will be found spread on the Scholarship Book.

The nominee for this scholarship, following some discussion as to his eligibility under the general rule of financial need, was referred to the Chairman of the Scholarship Committee in the College for further consideration with power to act.

The meeting then adjourned.
