---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1942'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1942) June 12, 1942
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 12, 1942

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENT FOR THE SESSION OF 1941-42, 2598.GIFTS:RESIGNATIONS:LEAVE OF ABSENCE:PROMOTIONS:ELECTIONS.RESOLUTION COVERING APPOINTMENTS DURING THE SUMMER:RYAN SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS:RATIFICATION OF GENERAL SCHOLARSHIPS, INSTRUCTORS, ASSISTANTS, STUDENT ASSISTANTS AND FELLOWSHIP HOLDERS:ALLOCATION OF UNIVERSITY RESIDENCES:BUDGET FOR - 1942-43:BAILEY, HAROLD H.MATTHEW FONTAINE MAURY BUILDING:ALUMNI ASSOCIATION—COMMUNICATION FROM:CONTRACT WITH THE U. S. A.-CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT: RESEARCH
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, for loans and scholarships to medical students

$10,000

From the Carnegie Corporation, for development of the University work in music

6,000

From the National Research Council, for research under Dr. Britton

2,000

From the General Education Board, toward the salary of Dr. Rudolf Freund, Ass't Professor of Rural Social Economics, for the session 1942-43

2,000

From the Emergency Committee in aid of Displaced Foreign Scholars, toward the salary of Dr. Rudolf Freund, for the session of 1942-43

1,000

The annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present; The Rector R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Hollis Rinehart, Christopher B. Garnett, James H. Corbitt, C. O'Conor Goolrick, Edward R. Stettinius, Edward C. Anderson, Aubrey G. Weaver and Dabney S. Lancaster, and President Newcomb.

Minutes of the previous meeting, copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following enrollment and gifts:

The President presented the resignations of the following members of the faculty which were accepted, and the resolutions with respect to their action adopted:

Dr. Robert Bennett Bean:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Robert Bennett Bean, Professor of Anatomy, offered because of continuing ill health, be and the same is hereby accepted. The Board desires to record its appreciation of his long and distinguished service to the Medical School of the University, and wishes for him many years of happiness and usefulness in his retirement.

Dr. Lawrence T. Royster:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Lawrence T. Royster, Professor of Pediatrics, offered because of continuing ill health, be and the same is hereby accepted. The Board desires to record its appreciation of his long and distinguished service to the Medical School of the University, and wishes for him many years of happiness and usefullness in his retirement.

Professor Virgil C. Williams:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Virgil C. Williams, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective June 15, 1942, Professor Williams has accepted a position at Northwestern Technological Institute, at Evanston, Illinois, and the Rector and Visitors wish for him continued success in his new field.

Upon the recommendation of the President, leaves of absence were granted the following members of the faculty:

Rowland A. Egger, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Bureau of Public Administration, for duty with the government, on an administrative mission to the Republic of Bolivia; leave until August 1, 1942, without salary.

To the following members of the University staff, for service with the government and for commissions in the armed forces of the Nation, for the duration of the war and six months thereafter, which is in accordance with Army, Navy and Marine Corps practice:

Robert K. Gooch

Melvin G. deChazeau

Wilbur A. Nelson

Archibald A. Hill

Edward L. Corey

Fredson T. Bowers

Williams S. Weedon

Robert N. Hoskins

John L. Fulmer

Henry Cumming

Francis J. Duke

Peters Rushton

Merle Ansberry

Marcus Mallett

Thomas M. Carruthers

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following members of the faculty were promoted to the grades and at salaries shown:

Dr. W. A. Derrick, from Assistant to Associate Professor of Pathology at a salary of $3,750, effective with the session of 1942-43.

Mr. John A. Rorer, Assistant Professor in charge of Extension Teaching be made Associate Director of Extension, without change in salary, effective with the session 1942-43.

Mr. John N. G. Finley, be made Assistant Professor in charge of Extension Teaching, and Associate Director of Extension, without change in salary, effective with the session of 1942-43.

Mr. Charles H. Kauffmann, be made Assistant Professor in charge of Extension Teaching and Director of the Bureau of Personnel and Placement, without change in salary, effective with the session of 1942-43.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following elections to the faculty were made:

Dr. Joseph Medard Carriere, Associate Professor of Romance Languages, at a salary of $4,000 per session, effective with the session of 1942-43.

Lieutenant Commander Chauncey Camp, Associate Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, without salary from the University.

Mr. Frank Wirtley Wheeler, Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a salary of $3,750 per session, incumbency to begin with the session of 1942-43.

Mr. Birney Mason, Jr., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a salary of $3,400 per session, incumbency to begin with the session of 1942-43.

Lieutenant Walter Blackburn Phillips, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, without salary from the University.

Dr. John Edwin Beck, Acting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Acting Director of the Department of Student Health, at a salary of $5,000 per annum, incumbency to begin May 15, 1942.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President, in consultation with the Deans and committees appointed by the President from the staff, be empowered during the summer to employ those professors who have been authorized by the Board buy who have not yet been selected. It is understood that all actions of the President and committees will be brought to the Rector and Visitors for ratification at their next meeting.

The following Thomas Fortune Ryan Scholarships were awarded:

First Congressional District, Nelson Montgomery Smith,

Second Congressional District, William Whitehurst Old, III,

Third Congressional District, Walter Dexter Whitehead, Jr.

Fourth Congressional District, Silas Edward Daniel, Jr.

Fifth Congressional District, Undetermined.

Sixth Congressional District, Robert Bocock Wilkins,

Seventh Congressional District, Timothy Lawrence Smith,

Eighth Congressional District, William Harrison Kite, Jr.

Ninth Congressional District, James Thomas Colley,

Tenth Congressional District, Dean Reynolds Thacker.

The general list of the above was presented and approved, and will be found on the Scholarship Book for 1942-43.

Upon the recommendation of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, Pavilion X now occupied by Dr. R. B. Bean, was allocated to Professor F. D. G. Ribble of the Law Department, and the rear portion of Pavilion V, now occupied by Mrs. C. M. Sparrow, following the death of Professor Sparrow, was allocated to Professor T. P. Abernethy of the School of History.

The President presented the financial budget for the fiscal year 1942-43, showing estimated receipts, including the State's appropriation, $2,853,199.00, and estimated expenditures of $2,847,137.00. By resolution of the Board, the appropriation for books for the Law Library was increased from $8,000 to $13,000. The budget was then adopted subject to change by the Board as conditions with respect to enrollment for the forth coming session and other contingencies may develop.

The President read a communication from Dean Ivey F. Lewis, Director of the Mountain Lake Biological Station, with reference to granting a permit to Mr. Bailey to erect a building on the grounds of the Station, under conditions mentioned in the communication. Following some discussion of the matter, the President and Rector were given power to act in the matter.

The Building, how nearing completion, being erected for the school of Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps, was, on motion, adopted, named the MATTHEW FONTAINE MAURY building in honor of the famed Virginian, designated in history as the "PATHFINDER OF THE SEAS."

A Committee from the Managers of the Alumni Association, composed of Virginius Dabney, C. Ashby Henry, Dr. William B. Marbury and Malcolm J. Luck, was received, and presented to the Board the following resolution adopted by the Board of Managers at a meeting held May 16, 1942.

"WHEREAS, a committee consisting of Virginius Dabney, William H. Laird, Hugh Leach, Charles Harrison Mann and William B. Marbury, appointed by the Board of Managers, has recommended that the academic situation at the University should be investigated, and after careful consideration of the report of that Committee and other material, the Board of Managers believes that and investigation of the academic and general situation at the University should be made:

Be it resolved that the Rector and Visitors are requested to cause such an investigation to be made as promptly as practicable."

Following some discussion of the matter by members of the Committee and the Board, upon motion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that a Committee of three members of the Board of Visitors be appointed to make a study of the Academic Department of the University to ascertain any facts that they deem pertinent thereto and to report back to the Board their recommendations.

The Rector appointed on the foregoing committee, Anderson, Garnett, and Lancaster.

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute said Memorandum of Agreement or Contract between the United States of America and the University of Virginia in an amount not to exceed ? to be paid by the United States of America for research in the Chemistry Department under Dr. John H. Yoe, said Agreement or Contract to be marked, for identification, USA and UVA No. 6.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to attest the signature, affix the seal, and certify that this resolution was passed by authority of the Governing Board of the University, and is within scope of its corporate powers.

The meeting then adjourned.
