---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1943'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
ENROLLMENT TO DATE: 1813.GIFTS RECEIVED.RESIGNATION OF DR. EUGENE M. LANDIS:LEAVES OF ABSENCE:ACTING DEAN OF LAW DEPARTMENT.CANCELLATION OF CERTAIN NOTES OF ROBERT T. BURGESS AND MRS. R. T. BURGESS:REPORT OF THE HEARING BOARD ON ABOLITION OF FRATERNITY HOUSES:RIGHT OF WAY GRANTED THE DEFENSE PLANT CORPORATION OVER LANDS OWNED BY T. R. CLEATON AND C. O. CLEATON:TRANSFER OF CERTAIN STOCK CERTIFICATES TO THE NOMINEES OF THE CUSTODIANS OF THE UNIVERSITY'S ENDOWMENT FUNDS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board for use at the Blandy Experimental Farm during the period ending June 30, 1946

$21,580

From the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, an additional grant for loans and scholarships for students in the Medical School

5,000

(10,000 reported previously for the same purpose)

From Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be designated as the Mary Stamps Royster Memorial Fund, to endow a private room in the hospital for impoverished gentlefolk three bonds, totaling

3,000

From the Nutrition Foundation, Inc., to be used by Dr. Chanutin in connection with his project on Fat Metabolism in the "nephritic" rat

3,000

From Mrs. Alvin Bryant Hutzler, as a "Memorial to a member of the Academic Class of 1908, who was also a member of the Richmond Chapter of the University of Virginia Alumni Association," to be used for any purpose which the Governing Board may determine upon, a bond of

1,000

From Mrs. J. Lerimer Worden, of New York, to be used without restriction for such general purposed of the Hospital as may be determined upon by the Board

1,000

From Merck & Company, $750 for a Fellowship in Chemistry for work on anti-malarials under Dr. Burger; and $250 as a fund for chemicals and apparatus needed in this investigation;

1,000

A TOTAL OF

$35, 580.00

Note #400 dated 9/15/1921 @ 5 years $50; bal

$ 45.00

Note #411 dated 2/1/1922 @ 5 years

50.00

Note #854 dated 11/6/1927 @ 10 months

50.00

Total

$145.00

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President; present, the Rector R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Hollis Rinehart, Jas. H. Cort Christopher B. Garnett, C. O'Conor Goolrick, and Dabney S. Lancaster, and President Newcomb.

Minutes of the previous meeting, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

President Newcomb made the following announcements:

Resignation of Dr. Eugene M. Landis, Professor of Internal Medicine, was presented by the President, whereupon the following action was voted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Eugene M. Landis, Professor of Internal Medicine, be and the same if hereby accepted with great regret. Dr. Landis has carried forward his work with devotion and skill and the Rector and Visitors wish for him success in his new field.

Leaves of absence were granted the following members of the faculty for service in the armed forces or other departments of the Government:

Mr. F. G. Ribble, Dean of the Department of Law, for duty in the State Department on the Board of Appeals in Visa Cases.

Mr. Charles P. Nash, Jr., Professor of Law, for active duty in the Marine Corps, for the duration of the war and six months thereafter.

Dr. J. H. Rushton, Professor of Chemical Engineering, for work with the National Defense Research Committee, for the duration of the war.

Dr. Edgar W. Kirby, Jr., Assistant Professor of Urology, for duty in the Army.

Dr. Richard Cecil Garlick, Jr., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, for duty in the United States Navy.

Dr. Dirk Reuyl, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for work in connection with ballistics at the Aberdeen Proving Ground.

Dr. James S. Constantine, Instructor in the School of Ancient Languages, for service in the United States Army.

Mr. William H. White, Jr., was appointed Acting Dean of the Department of Law in the absence of Dean F. D. G. Ribble.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Governor of the Commonwealth be requested to give his approval to the cancellation of the following State Student Loan notes which have been adjudged uncollectible:

The Rector read the following report of the Hearing Board on Abolition of Fraternity Houses at the University of Virginia, submitted by Judge A. D. Barksdale, Chairman:

Pursuant to your resolution of October 3, 1942, your Hearing Board, appointed in accordance with your resolution, met on October 23, 1942, at the Colonnade Club at the University, elected a Chairman, and had a general discussion of the subject under consideration. Upon the call of the Chairman, your Board met at Madison Hall at the University, at 10.30 A. M., November 30, 1942, after public notice had been given that all interested persons were invited to attend and make statements. No interested persons appeared, so, at the suggestion of some of the members, the heads of all the student departments and the Student Senate were invited to appear and make statements. During the afternoon session, most of those invited did appear and make statements, as did several others. The Committee then adjourned to meet in Madison Hall at 10:30 A. M., December 12th. Similar public notice of this meeting was given, with an invitation to all interested persons to appear and make statements. Notice of this meeting was also given by the Chairman to the Governor of Virginia, with an invitation to him to be present or to furnish the Board with any statement or information which he thought it should consider. The Governor expressed his appreciation of this invitation, which he declined, stating that he had recently met with your Committee, composed of Messrs. Stettinius, Corbitt and Williams, and expressed generally his views in reference to the matters under consideration. At this meeting of the Board, a number of interested persons appeared and made statements. Before its adjournment, the Board heard all person who appeared and expressed a desire to be heard. All statements made at Board meetings were stenographically transcribed, and a transcript of all statements made is filled herewith. As will appear from the transcript, no person appeared and advocated the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses. As it appeared that full notice had been given to the public, and that all persons who wished to appear and make statements had been heard, your Board did not deem it necessary to hold further public hearings.

Time has not permitted your Board to make any real study of conditions existing at other institutions of learning. However, from such information as we have been able to obtain, it appears that fraternity members are allowed to live in their houses at all of the state universities in the country. and this is true at all institutions where fraternities have houses with available living quarters. A very comprehensive "Survey of Social Life in Dartmouth College" was made by an able committee in recent years, and its report was filed in May 1936. A printed copy of its report is filed herewith, together with a copy of "A Preliminary Report on Revitalizing Fraternity Life at Dartmouth College" published in 1937. The Dartmouth Committee did not recommend the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses, but did recommend that fraternities at Dartmouth sever their affiliations with the national organizations and give up their charters. A strong minority report opposed this recommendation, and the recommendation was not carried out. The Committee also recommended the appointment of a college officer "to have responsibility for advice to and supervision of Dartmouth fraternities, whether national or local, in respect to their economic, social, and intellectual problems and activities." This recommendation was carried out, and early in 1937 the President appointed a "College Advisor to Fraternities". It is our information that this officer occupies a status which might be characterized as "Assistant Dean", with the responsibility as set out in the Committee's recommendation. It is also our information that this arrangement has been highly satisfactory.

A number of large state institutions have assistants to the deans who devote their entire time to guiding fraternities. Amongst these are: Ohio State, Michigan State, Minnesota, Washington, Purdue, and others.

In 1912, the Legislature of the State of Mississippi enacted a law abolishing fraternities in all state institutions. This was obviously unsatisfactory. for in 1926, the law was repealed, with the provision that students should not live in fraternity houses within a period of five years "and then only under such regulations as shall be prescribed by the Board of Trustees." After the expiration of the five-year period, students began to live in fraternity houses, and continue so to do.

The Chairman of your Board, after the conclusion of the public hearings and general discussion of the question under consideration, requested that all members of the Board who cared to do so, write letters or informal memoranda setting out their conclusions and recommendations for the Committee's report, All members of the Board, with one exception, have complied with this request, and the letters, recommendations and memoranda are filed herewith for your information.

Also for your information, your Board files with this, its report, besides the transcript of the statements heard, the letters, recommendations, memorands, and publications, above referred to, a number of other letters, statements and publications, a complete list of which is hereto attached as an appendix.

Complying with your direction that your Hearing Board consider and report the effect of fraternity houses on:

(a) Education,

(b) Formation of character, discipline and studious habits,

(c) Life at the University,

(d) Housing of students at the University, if fraternity houses be abolished, and

(e) The financial loss, if any, to the University and fraternities, if fraternity houses be abolished,

we beg to report as follows:

(a) Education.

It is the conclusion of your Board that living in fraternity houses has a beneficial effect upon the students, from the standpoint of scholastic attainment. It is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain accurate data, but such data as is available indicates that the average scholastic grades of fraternity men are slightly higher now, and have been in the past, than the average grades of students who do not belong to fraternities. It is true that all the fraternity houses have social rooms, facilities and functions, and these, to a degree, distract students from the pursuit of their studies. In some instances, doubtless, there is more distraction than is good for the students. However, on the other hand, it is apparent that fraternities have an interest in seeing to it that their prospective members, or pledges, attain good grades, or at least passing grades, because otherwise they could not become or remain members of the fraternity. This is also true in the case of the older members, as they cannot remain in the University if their grades are unsatisfactory. Besides this selfish interest, we find there is generally a feeling of obligation on the part of the fraternities to see to it that their members do well scholastically. This is most manifest in the attitude and relationship of the older men to the first-year students. Most, if not all, of the fraternities have adopted some concrete plan for the assistance of first-year students. Different fraternities have different plans. Some require first-year students to pledge themselves to devote a certain number of hours per day to study: others insist on a minimum number of study hours, without requiring a pledge: others have a quiet hour or study period. All encourage their first-year men to study, and assign older students to assist them when in difficulty. The fact that the fraternity has its headquarters and at least a nucleus of its students living in a fraternity house, renders it more convenient for the older students to assist the younger ones, and for the younger students to seek assistance.

(b) FORMATION OF CHARACTER, DISCIPLINE AND STUDIOUS HABITS.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that, generally speaking, fraternities are beneficial to the students in the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. The fraternities seek, in most instances successfully, to draw into their membership students of high character, adequate mental capacity, and pleasing personality. In order to stand well in comparison with other fraternities, it is necessary for each one to develop the character and studious habits of its own members, and in order to do this, a degree of discipline is necessary. The possession of a fraternity house strengthens a fraternity, particularly where all, or a part, of its members live in the house.

At the same time, it must be recognized that there have been too frequent instances of conduct in fraternity houses which does the fraternities no credit, and which is definitely detrimental to the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. During the period while this investigation was in progress, the Dean found it necessary to close one of the houses for unbecoming conduct and to restrict amother in its entertainment program. We believe that permission to operate and live in fraternity house should be conditioned upon the maintenance by the fraternity of conduct at all times therein, entirely above reproach. We believe that such an objective may be attained by the administration and the fraternities, preferably by cooperative agreement, but by regulation if necessary.

We recommend that serious thought be given to the appointment of an Assistant to the President, Assistant Dean, or Fraternity Advisor, whose primary duty shall be the accomplishment of this end.

(c) LIFE AT THE UNIVERSITY.

Fraternity houses, in which students reside, have been in existence at the University for at least forty years. Presently, thirty-three fraternities own or rent chapter houses at the University. These fraternity houses have rooming capacity for 610 students, and at the present time probably 500 students live in them. They are, and from their inception have been, social centers and meeting places, not only for their respective members, but for the alumni, the families and friends of the students. Obviously, they play a large part in University life.

We find no evidence of jealousy or ill will toward students living in fraternity houses. Students who do not belong to fraternities, seem to feel entirely free to visit their friends and acquaintances who live in fraternity houses and to attend social functions at fraternity houses when invited by members. We do not believe that the fact that some students live in fraternity houses renders the University undemocratic.

We believe that the self perpetuating group of students living in the fraternity houses play a very important part in perpetuating the traditions of Virginia, and familiarizing new students with the honor system and other principles of life at the University.

There is no Student Union or similar building at the University for social gatherings, with the exception of the Student Center at Madison Hall. By reason of limitations of space and equipment, the Student Center reaches a very small proportion of the students. There are no meeting or social rooms in the dormitories.

It appears that a student who does not belong to a fraternity is definitely handicapped in the matter of entertaining his family or friends who may visit him at Finals, football week ends, Easter Week, or at other times. Doubtless such a student does feel this handicap keenly at times. We recommend that you seek the necessary funds from the State for the erection and maintenance of a modern and well equipped Student Union or Student Center whose facilities will be available to all students for social gatherings and entertainment. We believe that the addition of such a facility, giving to the nonfraternity students something they need and do not now have, would be infinitely preferable to the abolition of fraternity houses, which would give the nonfraternity men nothing and deprive them of the privilege of visiting there occasionally, and completely deprive the fraternity men and the University generally of these social centers.

It is our conclusion that, if fraternity houses were abolished, the effect upon life at the University would be definitely detrimental.

(d) HOUSING OF STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

From Dean Lewis' very excellent report (herewith filed), it appears that the University dormitories in the aggregate provide space for 537 students. The fraternity houses, including social and professional fraternities, offer accommodations to 610 students. The remainder of the student body is housed in privately owned boarding houses, residences and apartment houses. Private rooming facilities are overtaxed already, which is indicated by high room rents demanded and obtained by private owners.

At present, it would seem that students who occupy rooms in fraternity houses obtain the best value for their money. The average cost of a room in a fraternity house is slightly less than the average cost of a room in a dormitory, and in the fraternity houses the students, in addition, have the use of the common or social rooms not provided in the dormitories. The average cost of rooms in fraternity houses is much less than comparable rooms in the most desirable boarding houses.

Over the period of the past forty years, the University has encouraged the building of fraternity houses, and in many instances provided financial assistance, for the purpose of alleciating the shortage of rooming facilities.

If students were no longer permitted to live in fraternity houses, and the enrollment should continue at anywhere near its recent peak, it would be necessary to build either additional dormitories or private housing facilities.

(e) THE FINANCIAL LOSS, IF ANY, TO THE UNIVERSITY AND FRATERNITIES, IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

The Omicron Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, an organization of student leaders in the University, no distinction between fraternity and nonfraternity men being made in the elections to its membership, has prepared and filed with your board a very helpful report, a copy of which is filed herewith. This report shows that the houses owned by the fraternities at the University have an aggregate assessed value of $428,610.00. The report assumes that the assessed value is 60% of the total value or actual worth, and upon this assumption the total value or actual worth of these houses would aggregate $672,683.00. The report further shows that the total mortgage indebtedness outstanding on these houses is $310,994.84, of which $125,494.81 is held by the University. The above figures do not include the value of the household furniture and other personal property owned by the fraternities, which varies from approximately $700.00 to $2,000.00 in each house.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that financial loss would follow inevitably if students were no longer permitted to live in these houses. Obviously they could not be maintained by the fraternities, if they should be deprived of the revenue accruing from room rentals. The houses, generally, were designed and built for the purposes for which they are presently used. Generally speaking, they are too large for residences, and not designed for family occupancy. They are too small, and have too much space as public or community rooms, to be suitable for University operated dormitories.

If the State should take them over at prices which would be fair to the owners, together with the furniture and fixtures, a very substantial loss to the State would ensure. If the fraternities themselves were required to dispose of their houses, it would seem that a calamitous loss to them would be inevitable. In many instances, the University would probably be obliged to purchase the houses to protect its loans, which would in all probability result in additional loss to the University, as the houses are not suitable for dormitories. (ADDENDUM: Mr. Marshall Andrews, of the Committee, suggests that the "Resolution with Reference to Granting Fraternities Leases for the Erection of Chapter Houses upon the Grounds of the University", adopted by the Board of Visitors December 2, 1907, be filed for consideration along with this report, and a copy thereof is accordingly filed herewith.)

CONCLUSION.

From the above, it will appear that we find many more good reasons for the continuation of the practice of permitting students to live in fraternity houses than we find valid reasons for the abolition of such practice, and so report.

Respectfully submitted this 29th day of January, 1943.

A General discussion of the matter was then had, and the following motion by Mr. Garnett, was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Rector be requested to take the report, with the accompanying data. to the Governor, and, after a conference with him, be authorized to have it published.

The President stated to the Board that a judgment in favor of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was entered against T. R. Cleaton and C. O. Cleaton, in the sum of $141.74 with interest, costs, etc., and had been recorded in Lien Docket 4, p. 35, in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Amelia County, Virginia, that the University had been requested by Defense Plant Corporation, a corporation controlled by the United States of America and created by Reconstruction Finance Corporation, to subordinate the lien of said judgment to the grant of a right of way over lands owned by said T. R. Cleaton and C. O. Cleaton through which said Defense Plant Corporation is now constructing a pipe line for the transmission of oil from Greensboro, North Carolina, to Richmond, Virginia.

Upon consideration whereof, it was unanimously,

RESOLVED that the President be and is hereby authorized to execute the proper form of subordination of said judgment in the name and on behalf of the University of Virginia, and that the Secretary be and is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal thereto, attest the same, and deliver the subordination of judgment to Mr. J. H. Ogden, representative of said Defense Plant Corporation.

The President brought up the question of having certain certificates of stock, received in the bequest of Samuel Phillips Mitchell and now recorded in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, changed to the Nominees of the custodians of the investments of the University's endowment funds. Following some discussion of the question, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the question of the transfer of certain stock, now registered in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to the Nominees of the custodians of the invested funds of the University's endowment funds be referred to the Attorney General of the State as to its legality and as to the possibility of Federal tax being assessed against stocks recorded in the name of a Nominee, and if he is in accord with the resolution proposed for such a transfer, the transfer be made.

The meeting then adjourned.

Pursuant to your resolution of October 3, 1942, your Hearing Board, appointed in accordance with your resolution, met on October 23, 1942, at the Colonnade Club at the University, elected a Chairman, and had a general discussion of the subject under consideration. Upon the call of the Chairman, your Board met at Madison Hall at the University, at 10.30 A. M., November 30, 1942, after public notice had been given that all interested persons were invited to attend and make statements. No interested persons appeared, so, at the suggestion of some of the members, the heads of all the student departments and the Student Senate were invited to appear and make statements. During the afternoon session, most of those invited did appear and make statements, as did several others. The Committee then adjourned to meet in Madison Hall at 10:30 A. M., December 12th. Similar public notice of this meeting was given, with an invitation to all interested persons to appear and make statements. Notice of this meeting was also given by the Chairman to the Governor of Virginia, with an invitation to him to be present or to furnish the Board with any statement or information which he thought it should consider. The Governor expressed his appreciation of this invitation, which he declined, stating that he had recently met with your Committee, composed of Messrs. Stettinius, Corbitt and Williams, and expressed generally his views in reference to the matters under consideration. At this meeting of the Board, a number of interested persons appeared and made statements. Before its adjournment, the Board heard all person who appeared and expressed a desire to be heard. All statements made at Board meetings were stenographically transcribed, and a transcript of all statements made is filled herewith. As will appear from the transcript, no person appeared and advocated the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses. As it appeared that full notice had been given to the public, and that all persons who wished to appear and make statements had been heard, your Board did not deem it necessary to hold further public hearings.

Time has not permitted your Board to make any real study of conditions existing at other institutions of learning. However, from such information as we have been able to obtain, it appears that fraternity members are allowed to live in their houses at all of the state universities in the country. and this is true at all institutions where fraternities have houses with available living quarters. A very comprehensive "Survey of Social Life in Dartmouth College" was made by an able committee in recent years, and its report was filed in May 1936. A printed copy of its report is filed herewith, together with a copy of "A Preliminary Report on Revitalizing Fraternity Life at Dartmouth College" published in 1937. The Dartmouth Committee did not recommend the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses, but did recommend that fraternities at Dartmouth sever their affiliations with the national organizations and give up their charters. A strong minority report opposed this recommendation, and the recommendation was not carried out. The Committee also recommended the appointment of a college officer "to have responsibility for advice to and supervision of Dartmouth fraternities, whether national or local, in respect to their economic, social, and intellectual problems and activities." This recommendation was carried out, and early in 1937 the President appointed a "College Advisor to Fraternities". It is our information that this officer occupies a status which might be characterized as "Assistant Dean", with the responsibility as set out in the Committee's recommendation. It is also our information that this arrangement has been highly satisfactory.

A number of large state institutions have assistants to the deans who devote their entire time to guiding fraternities. Amongst these are: Ohio State, Michigan State, Minnesota, Washington, Purdue, and others.

In 1912, the Legislature of the State of Mississippi enacted a law abolishing fraternities in all state institutions. This was obviously unsatisfactory. for in 1926, the law was repealed, with the provision that students should not live in fraternity houses within a period of five years "and then only under such regulations as shall be prescribed by the Board of Trustees." After the expiration of the five-year period, students began to live in fraternity houses, and continue so to do.

The Chairman of your Board, after the conclusion of the public hearings and general discussion of the question under consideration, requested that all members of the Board who cared to do so, write letters or informal memoranda setting out their conclusions and recommendations for the Committee's report, All members of the Board, with one exception, have complied with this request, and the letters, recommendations and memoranda are filed herewith for your information.

Also for your information, your Board files with this, its report, besides the transcript of the statements heard, the letters, recommendations, memorands, and publications, above referred to, a number of other letters, statements and publications, a complete list of which is hereto attached as an appendix.

Complying with your direction that your Hearing Board consider and report the effect of fraternity houses on:

(a) Education,

(b) Formation of character, discipline and studious habits,

(c) Life at the University,

(d) Housing of students at the University, if fraternity houses be abolished, and

(e) The financial loss, if any, to the University and fraternities, if fraternity houses be abolished,

we beg to report as follows:

(a) Education.

It is the conclusion of your Board that living in fraternity houses has a beneficial effect upon the students, from the standpoint of scholastic attainment. It is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain accurate data, but such data as is available indicates that the average scholastic grades of fraternity men are slightly higher now, and have been in the past, than the average grades of students who do not belong to fraternities. It is true that all the fraternity houses have social rooms, facilities and functions, and these, to a degree, distract students from the pursuit of their studies. In some instances, doubtless, there is more distraction than is good for the students. However, on the other hand, it is apparent that fraternities have an interest in seeing to it that their prospective members, or pledges, attain good grades, or at least passing grades, because otherwise they could not become or remain members of the fraternity. This is also true in the case of the older members, as they cannot remain in the University if their grades are unsatisfactory. Besides this selfish interest, we find there is generally a feeling of obligation on the part of the fraternities to see to it that their members do well scholastically. This is most manifest in the attitude and relationship of the older men to the first-year students. Most, if not all, of the fraternities have adopted some concrete plan for the assistance of first-year students. Different fraternities have different plans. Some require first-year students to pledge themselves to devote a certain number of hours per day to study: others insist on a minimum number of study hours, without requiring a pledge: others have a quiet hour or study period. All encourage their first-year men to study, and assign older students to assist them when in difficulty. The fact that the fraternity has its headquarters and at least a nucleus of its students living in a fraternity house, renders it more convenient for the older students to assist the younger ones, and for the younger students to seek assistance.

(b) FORMATION OF CHARACTER, DISCIPLINE AND STUDIOUS HABITS.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that, generally speaking, fraternities are beneficial to the students in the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. The fraternities seek, in most instances successfully, to draw into their membership students of high character, adequate mental capacity, and pleasing personality. In order to stand well in comparison with other fraternities, it is necessary for each one to develop the character and studious habits of its own members, and in order to do this, a degree of discipline is necessary. The possession of a fraternity house strengthens a fraternity, particularly where all, or a part, of its members live in the house.

At the same time, it must be recognized that there have been too frequent instances of conduct in fraternity houses which does the fraternities no credit, and which is definitely detrimental to the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. During the period while this investigation was in progress, the Dean found it necessary to close one of the houses for unbecoming conduct and to restrict amother in its entertainment program. We believe that permission to operate and live in fraternity house should be conditioned upon the maintenance by the fraternity of conduct at all times therein, entirely above reproach. We believe that such an objective may be attained by the administration and the fraternities, preferably by cooperative agreement, but by regulation if necessary.

We recommend that serious thought be given to the appointment of an Assistant to the President, Assistant Dean, or Fraternity Advisor, whose primary duty shall be the accomplishment of this end.

(c) LIFE AT THE UNIVERSITY.

Fraternity houses, in which students reside, have been in existence at the University for at least forty years. Presently, thirty-three fraternities own or rent chapter houses at the University. These fraternity houses have rooming capacity for 610 students, and at the present time probably 500 students live in them. They are, and from their inception have been, social centers and meeting places, not only for their respective members, but for the alumni, the families and friends of the students. Obviously, they play a large part in University life.

We find no evidence of jealousy or ill will toward students living in fraternity houses. Students who do not belong to fraternities, seem to feel entirely free to visit their friends and acquaintances who live in fraternity houses and to attend social functions at fraternity houses when invited by members. We do not believe that the fact that some students live in fraternity houses renders the University undemocratic.

We believe that the self perpetuating group of students living in the fraternity houses play a very important part in perpetuating the traditions of Virginia, and familiarizing new students with the honor system and other principles of life at the University.

There is no Student Union or similar building at the University for social gatherings, with the exception of the Student Center at Madison Hall. By reason of limitations of space and equipment, the Student Center reaches a very small proportion of the students. There are no meeting or social rooms in the dormitories.

It appears that a student who does not belong to a fraternity is definitely handicapped in the matter of entertaining his family or friends who may visit him at Finals, football week ends, Easter Week, or at other times. Doubtless such a student does feel this handicap keenly at times. We recommend that you seek the necessary funds from the State for the erection and maintenance of a modern and well equipped Student Union or Student Center whose facilities will be available to all students for social gatherings and entertainment. We believe that the addition of such a facility, giving to the nonfraternity students something they need and do not now have, would be infinitely preferable to the abolition of fraternity houses, which would give the nonfraternity men nothing and deprive them of the privilege of visiting there occasionally, and completely deprive the fraternity men and the University generally of these social centers.

It is our conclusion that, if fraternity houses were abolished, the effect upon life at the University would be definitely detrimental.

(d) HOUSING OF STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

From Dean Lewis' very excellent report (herewith filed), it appears that the University dormitories in the aggregate provide space for 537 students. The fraternity houses, including social and professional fraternities, offer accommodations to 610 students. The remainder of the student body is housed in privately owned boarding houses, residences and apartment houses. Private rooming facilities are overtaxed already, which is indicated by high room rents demanded and obtained by private owners.

At present, it would seem that students who occupy rooms in fraternity houses obtain the best value for their money. The average cost of a room in a fraternity house is slightly less than the average cost of a room in a dormitory, and in the fraternity houses the students, in addition, have the use of the common or social rooms not provided in the dormitories. The average cost of rooms in fraternity houses is much less than comparable rooms in the most desirable boarding houses.

Over the period of the past forty years, the University has encouraged the building of fraternity houses, and in many instances provided financial assistance, for the purpose of alleciating the shortage of rooming facilities.

If students were no longer permitted to live in fraternity houses, and the enrollment should continue at anywhere near its recent peak, it would be necessary to build either additional dormitories or private housing facilities.

(e) THE FINANCIAL LOSS, IF ANY, TO THE UNIVERSITY AND FRATERNITIES, IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

The Omicron Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, an organization of student leaders in the University, no distinction between fraternity and nonfraternity men being made in the elections to its membership, has prepared and filed with your board a very helpful report, a copy of which is filed herewith. This report shows that the houses owned by the fraternities at the University have an aggregate assessed value of $428,610.00. The report assumes that the assessed value is 60% of the total value or actual worth, and upon this assumption the total value or actual worth of these houses would aggregate $672,683.00. The report further shows that the total mortgage indebtedness outstanding on these houses is $310,994.84, of which $125,494.81 is held by the University. The above figures do not include the value of the household furniture and other personal property owned by the fraternities, which varies from approximately $700.00 to $2,000.00 in each house.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that financial loss would follow inevitably if students were no longer permitted to live in these houses. Obviously they could not be maintained by the fraternities, if they should be deprived of the revenue accruing from room rentals. The houses, generally, were designed and built for the purposes for which they are presently used. Generally speaking, they are too large for residences, and not designed for family occupancy. They are too small, and have too much space as public or community rooms, to be suitable for University operated dormitories.

If the State should take them over at prices which would be fair to the owners, together with the furniture and fixtures, a very substantial loss to the State would ensure. If the fraternities themselves were required to dispose of their houses, it would seem that a calamitous loss to them would be inevitable. In many instances, the University would probably be obliged to purchase the houses to protect its loans, which would in all probability result in additional loss to the University, as the houses are not suitable for dormitories. (ADDENDUM: Mr. Marshall Andrews, of the Committee, suggests that the "Resolution with Reference to Granting Fraternities Leases for the Erection of Chapter Houses upon the Grounds of the University", adopted by the Board of Visitors December 2, 1907, be filed for consideration along with this report, and a copy thereof is accordingly filed herewith.)

CONCLUSION.

From the above, it will appear that we find many more good reasons for the continuation of the practice of permitting students to live in fraternity houses than we find valid reasons for the abolition of such practice, and so report.

Respectfully submitted this 29th day of January, 1943.

Pursuant to your resolution of October 3, 1942, your Hearing Board, appointed in accordance with your resolution, met on October 23, 1942, at the Colonnade Club at the University, elected a Chairman, and had a general discussion of the subject under consideration. Upon the call of the Chairman, your Board met at Madison Hall at the University, at 10.30 A. M., November 30, 1942, after public notice had been given that all interested persons were invited to attend and make statements. No interested persons appeared, so, at the suggestion of some of the members, the heads of all the student departments and the Student Senate were invited to appear and make statements. During the afternoon session, most of those invited did appear and make statements, as did several others. The Committee then adjourned to meet in Madison Hall at 10:30 A. M., December 12th. Similar public notice of this meeting was given, with an invitation to all interested persons to appear and make statements. Notice of this meeting was also given by the Chairman to the Governor of Virginia, with an invitation to him to be present or to furnish the Board with any statement or information which he thought it should consider. The Governor expressed his appreciation of this invitation, which he declined, stating that he had recently met with your Committee, composed of Messrs. Stettinius, Corbitt and Williams, and expressed generally his views in reference to the matters under consideration. At this meeting of the Board, a number of interested persons appeared and made statements. Before its adjournment, the Board heard all person who appeared and expressed a desire to be heard. All statements made at Board meetings were stenographically transcribed, and a transcript of all statements made is filled herewith. As will appear from the transcript, no person appeared and advocated the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses. As it appeared that full notice had been given to the public, and that all persons who wished to appear and make statements had been heard, your Board did not deem it necessary to hold further public hearings.

Time has not permitted your Board to make any real study of conditions existing at other institutions of learning. However, from such information as we have been able to obtain, it appears that fraternity members are allowed to live in their houses at all of the state universities in the country. and this is true at all institutions where fraternities have houses with available living quarters. A very comprehensive "Survey of Social Life in Dartmouth College" was made by an able committee in recent years, and its report was filed in May 1936. A printed copy of its report is filed herewith, together with a copy of "A Preliminary Report on Revitalizing Fraternity Life at Dartmouth College" published in 1937. The Dartmouth Committee did not recommend the abolition of the practice of students living in fraternity houses, but did recommend that fraternities at Dartmouth sever their affiliations with the national organizations and give up their charters. A strong minority report opposed this recommendation, and the recommendation was not carried out. The Committee also recommended the appointment of a college officer "to have responsibility for advice to and supervision of Dartmouth fraternities, whether national or local, in respect to their economic, social, and intellectual problems and activities." This recommendation was carried out, and early in 1937 the President appointed a "College Advisor to Fraternities". It is our information that this officer occupies a status which might be characterized as "Assistant Dean", with the responsibility as set out in the Committee's recommendation. It is also our information that this arrangement has been highly satisfactory.

A number of large state institutions have assistants to the deans who devote their entire time to guiding fraternities. Amongst these are: Ohio State, Michigan State, Minnesota, Washington, Purdue, and others.

In 1912, the Legislature of the State of Mississippi enacted a law abolishing fraternities in all state institutions. This was obviously unsatisfactory. for in 1926, the law was repealed, with the provision that students should not live in fraternity houses within a period of five years "and then only under such regulations as shall be prescribed by the Board of Trustees." After the expiration of the five-year period, students began to live in fraternity houses, and continue so to do.

The Chairman of your Board, after the conclusion of the public hearings and general discussion of the question under consideration, requested that all members of the Board who cared to do so, write letters or informal memoranda setting out their conclusions and recommendations for the Committee's report, All members of the Board, with one exception, have complied with this request, and the letters, recommendations and memoranda are filed herewith for your information.

Also for your information, your Board files with this, its report, besides the transcript of the statements heard, the letters, recommendations, memorands, and publications, above referred to, a number of other letters, statements and publications, a complete list of which is hereto attached as an appendix.

Complying with your direction that your Hearing Board consider and report the effect of fraternity houses on:

(a) Education,

(b) Formation of character, discipline and studious habits,

(c) Life at the University,

(d) Housing of students at the University, if fraternity houses be abolished, and

(e) The financial loss, if any, to the University and fraternities, if fraternity houses be abolished,

we beg to report as follows:

(a) Education.

It is the conclusion of your Board that living in fraternity houses has a beneficial effect upon the students, from the standpoint of scholastic attainment. It is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain accurate data, but such data as is available indicates that the average scholastic grades of fraternity men are slightly higher now, and have been in the past, than the average grades of students who do not belong to fraternities. It is true that all the fraternity houses have social rooms, facilities and functions, and these, to a degree, distract students from the pursuit of their studies. In some instances, doubtless, there is more distraction than is good for the students. However, on the other hand, it is apparent that fraternities have an interest in seeing to it that their prospective members, or pledges, attain good grades, or at least passing grades, because otherwise they could not become or remain members of the fraternity. This is also true in the case of the older members, as they cannot remain in the University if their grades are unsatisfactory. Besides this selfish interest, we find there is generally a feeling of obligation on the part of the fraternities to see to it that their members do well scholastically. This is most manifest in the attitude and relationship of the older men to the first-year students. Most, if not all, of the fraternities have adopted some concrete plan for the assistance of first-year students. Different fraternities have different plans. Some require first-year students to pledge themselves to devote a certain number of hours per day to study: others insist on a minimum number of study hours, without requiring a pledge: others have a quiet hour or study period. All encourage their first-year men to study, and assign older students to assist them when in difficulty. The fact that the fraternity has its headquarters and at least a nucleus of its students living in a fraternity house, renders it more convenient for the older students to assist the younger ones, and for the younger students to seek assistance.

(b) FORMATION OF CHARACTER, DISCIPLINE AND STUDIOUS HABITS.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that, generally speaking, fraternities are beneficial to the students in the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. The fraternities seek, in most instances successfully, to draw into their membership students of high character, adequate mental capacity, and pleasing personality. In order to stand well in comparison with other fraternities, it is necessary for each one to develop the character and studious habits of its own members, and in order to do this, a degree of discipline is necessary. The possession of a fraternity house strengthens a fraternity, particularly where all, or a part, of its members live in the house.

At the same time, it must be recognized that there have been too frequent instances of conduct in fraternity houses which does the fraternities no credit, and which is definitely detrimental to the formation of character, discipline and studious habits. During the period while this investigation was in progress, the Dean found it necessary to close one of the houses for unbecoming conduct and to restrict amother in its entertainment program. We believe that permission to operate and live in fraternity house should be conditioned upon the maintenance by the fraternity of conduct at all times therein, entirely above reproach. We believe that such an objective may be attained by the administration and the fraternities, preferably by cooperative agreement, but by regulation if necessary.

We recommend that serious thought be given to the appointment of an Assistant to the President, Assistant Dean, or Fraternity Advisor, whose primary duty shall be the accomplishment of this end.

(c) LIFE AT THE UNIVERSITY.

Fraternity houses, in which students reside, have been in existence at the University for at least forty years. Presently, thirty-three fraternities own or rent chapter houses at the University. These fraternity houses have rooming capacity for 610 students, and at the present time probably 500 students live in them. They are, and from their inception have been, social centers and meeting places, not only for their respective members, but for the alumni, the families and friends of the students. Obviously, they play a large part in University life.

We find no evidence of jealousy or ill will toward students living in fraternity houses. Students who do not belong to fraternities, seem to feel entirely free to visit their friends and acquaintances who live in fraternity houses and to attend social functions at fraternity houses when invited by members. We do not believe that the fact that some students live in fraternity houses renders the University undemocratic.

We believe that the self perpetuating group of students living in the fraternity houses play a very important part in perpetuating the traditions of Virginia, and familiarizing new students with the honor system and other principles of life at the University.

There is no Student Union or similar building at the University for social gatherings, with the exception of the Student Center at Madison Hall. By reason of limitations of space and equipment, the Student Center reaches a very small proportion of the students. There are no meeting or social rooms in the dormitories.

It appears that a student who does not belong to a fraternity is definitely handicapped in the matter of entertaining his family or friends who may visit him at Finals, football week ends, Easter Week, or at other times. Doubtless such a student does feel this handicap keenly at times. We recommend that you seek the necessary funds from the State for the erection and maintenance of a modern and well equipped Student Union or Student Center whose facilities will be available to all students for social gatherings and entertainment. We believe that the addition of such a facility, giving to the nonfraternity students something they need and do not now have, would be infinitely preferable to the abolition of fraternity houses, which would give the nonfraternity men nothing and deprive them of the privilege of visiting there occasionally, and completely deprive the fraternity men and the University generally of these social centers.

It is our conclusion that, if fraternity houses were abolished, the effect upon life at the University would be definitely detrimental.

(d) HOUSING OF STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

From Dean Lewis' very excellent report (herewith filed), it appears that the University dormitories in the aggregate provide space for 537 students. The fraternity houses, including social and professional fraternities, offer accommodations to 610 students. The remainder of the student body is housed in privately owned boarding houses, residences and apartment houses. Private rooming facilities are overtaxed already, which is indicated by high room rents demanded and obtained by private owners.

At present, it would seem that students who occupy rooms in fraternity houses obtain the best value for their money. The average cost of a room in a fraternity house is slightly less than the average cost of a room in a dormitory, and in the fraternity houses the students, in addition, have the use of the common or social rooms not provided in the dormitories. The average cost of rooms in fraternity houses is much less than comparable rooms in the most desirable boarding houses.

Over the period of the past forty years, the University has encouraged the building of fraternity houses, and in many instances provided financial assistance, for the purpose of alleciating the shortage of rooming facilities.

If students were no longer permitted to live in fraternity houses, and the enrollment should continue at anywhere near its recent peak, it would be necessary to build either additional dormitories or private housing facilities.

(e) THE FINANCIAL LOSS, IF ANY, TO THE UNIVERSITY AND FRATERNITIES, IF FRATERNITY HOUSES BE ABOLISHED.

The Omicron Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, an organization of student leaders in the University, no distinction between fraternity and nonfraternity men being made in the elections to its membership, has prepared and filed with your board a very helpful report, a copy of which is filed herewith. This report shows that the houses owned by the fraternities at the University have an aggregate assessed value of $428,610.00. The report assumes that the assessed value is 60% of the total value or actual worth, and upon this assumption the total value or actual worth of these houses would aggregate $672,683.00. The report further shows that the total mortgage indebtedness outstanding on these houses is $310,994.84, of which $125,494.81 is held by the University. The above figures do not include the value of the household furniture and other personal property owned by the fraternities, which varies from approximately $700.00 to $2,000.00 in each house.

It is the conclusion of your Committee that financial loss would follow inevitably if students were no longer permitted to live in these houses. Obviously they could not be maintained by the fraternities, if they should be deprived of the revenue accruing from room rentals. The houses, generally, were designed and built for the purposes for which they are presently used. Generally speaking, they are too large for residences, and not designed for family occupancy. They are too small, and have too much space as public or community rooms, to be suitable for University operated dormitories.

If the State should take them over at prices which would be fair to the owners, together with the furniture and fixtures, a very substantial loss to the State would ensure. If the fraternities themselves were required to dispose of their houses, it would seem that a calamitous loss to them would be inevitable. In many instances, the University would probably be obliged to purchase the houses to protect its loans, which would in all probability result in additional loss to the University, as the houses are not suitable for dormitories. (ADDENDUM: Mr. Marshall Andrews, of the Committee, suggests that the "Resolution with Reference to Granting Fraternities Leases for the Erection of Chapter Houses upon the Grounds of the University", adopted by the Board of Visitors December 2, 1907, be filed for consideration along with this report, and a copy thereof is accordingly filed herewith.)

CONCLUSION.

From the above, it will appear that we find many more good reasons for the continuation of the practice of permitting students to live in fraternity houses than we find valid reasons for the abolition of such practice, and so report.

Respectfully submitted this 29th day of January, 1943.
