---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1944'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1944) December 23, 1944
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 23, 1944

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

FOR DORMITORIES, DINING HALL AND STUDENT UNION:FOR ADDITION TO THE POWER PLANT, AND THE INCINERATOR:FOR HEATING TUNNELS AND UNDERGROUND MAINS:FOR THE UNDERGROUND ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:FOR THE ADDITION TO THE CHEMICAL BUILDING: THE ADDITION TO THE HOSPITAL KITCHEN, AND THE COMPLETION OF THE INTERNES' QUARTERS:FOR THE NORTH AND SOUTH WINGS OF THE OLD HOSPITAL BUILDING:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Principal Architects

Eggers & Higgins.

Associate Architects

Baskervill & Son,

Principal Engineers

Wiley & Wilson.

Principal Engineers

Wiley & Wilson,

Principal Engineers

Slaughter, Seville & Blackburn.

Principal Architects

Taylor & Fisher.

Principal Architects

Taylor & Fisher,

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock A.M. with The Rector R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnett, James H. Corbitt, Edward C. Anderson, Dabney S. Lancaster, Dr. William Dandridge Haden, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes and Richard A. Carrington, Jr., and President Newcomb present.

Minutes of the previous meeting, having been copied and mailed the members, were approved.

The President announced the enrollment as of this date - 1311.

He also announced a gift of $5,000 from Dr. Stephen H. Watts to be added to his earlier gifts of $15,000, the income therefrom to be used for the Medical Library, and he was requested to express to Dr. Watts the appreciation of the Board of Visitors for his generous contribution.

The proposal from the Director of the Seward Forest that we sell a small parcel of land - around half on acre - to Mr. Lemon J. Mosely, at a price of $15.00, in order to straighten the lines of both properties, was approved, and the President and Secretary were authorized to execute deed thereto upon payment of the purchase price.

A recommendation from the Law Faculty, approved by the University Senate, permitting the Law School to confer graduate degrees, was approved as set forth in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, that the Department of Law is hereby authorized to institute a program of graduate studies in Law, and to recommend to the General Faculty the awarding of the degrees of Master of Laws and Doctor of the Science of Law to candidates who have successfully completed the requirements for these degrees.

The President presented a proposal from the City of Charlottesville in the matter of the disposal of the University's sewage through the City's sewerage system, and the matter was disposed of in the following resolution, adopted:

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to dispose of the University's sewage through the City of Charlottesville Sewerage System, rather than to maintain its own Disposal Plant,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Dr. W. D. Haden, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to negotiate a contract between the City of Charlottesville and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for the disposal of the University's sewage, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that after this agreement has been approved by the Budget Division of the State, J. L. Newcomb, President, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign said agreement for and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Dr. W. D. Haden, Chairman of the New Buildings Committee of the Board stated to the meeting that his committee had held several meetings for the purpose of selecting and recommending to the Board for appointment architects and engineers for the proposed construction work at the University, and that his committee makes the following recommendations:

subject to satisfactory arrangements with Eggers & Higgins, and subject further to their agreeing to give priority to this work over all other State work.

provided Almiral & Co. are employed by them as Consulting Engineers.

with the understanding that they will employ a hospital consultant who is satisfactory to the New Buildings Committee of the Board.

The foregoing appointments were unanimously approved.

The meeting then adjourned.
