---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1944'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
ENROLLMENT: 1283.GIFTS:PROMOTION AND ELECTIONS:SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS FOR BUILDING PROGRAM:THE GOVERNOR REQUESTED TO SET APART 4% OF THE APPROPRIATIONS FOR BUILDINGS TO BE USED FOR ARCHITECTURAL PLANS:LUCY JAMES DUN WILL MATTER:ACCEPTANCE OF EQUIPMENT AND RECONDITIONING FOR THE KELLY HOUSE UNDER FEDERAL WORKS AGENCY PROJECT Va. 44-383.REQUEST OF THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA FOR PERMISSION TO CHARGE OFF CERTAIN STATE STUDENTS' LOAN NOTES.ENROLLMENT:BUILDING PROGRAM:ARCHITECTURAL SERVICE FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION:PURCHASE OF THE BOULWARE PROPERTY APPROVED:STUDENTS PERMITTED TO ENROLL FOR FLYING INSTRUCTION:MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS- CONTINUED.FACULTY APPOINTMENTS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board for the appointment of a professor of Rural Social Economics, over a two-year period beginning November 1, 1944

$7,500

From the General Education Board, to be used for the salary of a staff member for the coordinated extension project in Community Study and Government, over a two-year period beginning November 1, 1944 the sum of

7,500

From the General Education Board, to enable Dr. R. A. Silow to visit institutions and persons in the South engaged in research on cotton, the sum of

650

or as much thereof as may be necessary.

#926,

dated October 1, 1927

$35.00

928,

dated January 1, 1928

50.00

1091,

dated February 25, 1929

50.00

$135.00

#861,

dated April 20, 1928

$50.00

866,

dated June 20, 1928

50.00

891,

dated February 5, 1928

Bal.

40.00

961,

dated August 1, 1928

50.00

$190.00

No. 1, Renovation of Frances Willard dormitory

$65,000.00

No. 2, New Infirmary Building

75,000.00

No. 3, Additional Wing on Dining Hall

60,000.00

No. 4, New Heating Plant

85,000.00

Total

$285,000.00

1.

Fine Arts Building

$300,000.00

2.

Physical Education and Student Activity Building

225,000.00

3.

Academic Building

150,000.00

4.

Fourth Wing to Dining Hall

80,000.00

5.

Home Management House

20,000.00

6.

Central Storage and Laundry Building

65,000.00

7.

Dormitory Group - capacity 1290 students 2 students to a room

1,935,000.00

8.

Working Tunnels for Heating Mains

100,000.00

9.

New Water Tank - 300,000 gal. capacity

40,000.00

10.

Additional Capacity for Central Heating Plant to accommodate these proposed additions

50,000.00

Total

$2,965.000.00

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President at 11 o'clock, a.m., with the following members present: The Rector, R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnett, James H. Corbitt, C. O'Conor Goolrick, Edward C. Anderson, Dabney S. Lancaster, Dr. W. Dandridge Haden, Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis and Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, President Newcomb, and President M. L. Combs of Mary Washington College.

Minutes of the meeting of October 14, which had been copied and mailed to the Visitors, were approved.

President Newcomb submitted the following matters for the University:

Upon the recommendation of President Newcomb the following Promotion and Elections were voted:

Dr. Karl Richards Wallace, promoted from Associate Professor to Professor of Speech, effective November 1, 1944.

Dr. Rutledge Vining elected Associate Professor of Rural Economics at a salary of $3,750.00 per nine-months' session, incumbency to begin January 1, 1944.

Dr. Anibal Roberto Valle, elected Assistant Professor of Surgery at a salary of $3,500 per annum, incumbency to begin October 1, 1944.

Mr. Corbitt, who represents the University of Virginia on the State Committee charged with the selection of architects and engineers for the building program of the several educational and other State institutions, gave a very full report of the progress being made by the committee and of the difficulties experienced with the appointments for the University.

Mr. Lewis Williams, in a general discussion of the matter, brought forward the possibility of having submission of competative sketches by several architects and spoke of the correspondence he had conducted with the possibility of having such plan adopted for our projected buildings. From the general discussion it developed that the meeting was not prepared to take definite action at this time. On motion, adopted, the matter was referred to the New Buildings Committee acting with Mr. Corbitt.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the President of the University request the Governor to release 4% of the appropriations made for buildings at the University and Mary Washington College to be used to secure architectural designs therefor.

The President advised the Board that the Supreme Court of Maryland had reversed the decision of the Circuit Court of Baltimore County in the Lucy James Dun will, and had directed the Safe Deposit Trust Company of Baltimore to turn over that one-third of Mrs. Dun's estate to the Trustees of the Rucker Estate. He further stated that the Trustees would now institute proceedings in the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville for a legal construction of Mr. Rucker's will and for guidance in their administration of this fund.

The President stated that it was his intention to request the Attorney General to act as counsel for the University in the matter, and in case his office could not appear for the University it would be necessary to have him designate an attorney to do so.

At a meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on August 15, 1944 a resolution was adopted authorizing and empowering E. I. Carruthers, Purchasing Agent of the University of Virginia and C. S. Lentz, M. D., Administrator of the University of Virginia Hospital, to accept bids and award any and all contracts in connection with Federal Works Agency Project Va. 44-383 covering certain equipment for and reconditioning of the Kelly House used by the University Hospital as a home for Cadet Nurses.

The installation of equipment and the reconditioning of the building have been completed, and the Federal Works Agency desires official acceptance thereof by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. Therefore be it,

RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby accepts the equipment installed and the reconditioning done in the residence known as the Kelly House now being used as a home for Cadet Nurses attending the University of Virginia Hospital School of Nursing. The said equipment and reconditioning being authorized under Federal Works Agency Project Va. 44-383.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia be requested to give approval to the charging off of our State Students' Loan Notes account the following uncollectible items:

Notes of J. Lewis Vaughan:

Vaughan borrowed a total of $150.00 while a student here and had paid only $15.00 on the principal when he died leaving no estate, a widow and several small children. An effort was made to collect the debt from his father who was endorser, but without any success.

Notes of Earl Musick:

Musick borrowed from the State Loan Fund a total of $300.00, represented by three notes of $50.00 each, and two notes of $75.00 each. He was adjudged a bankrupt and we accepted a compromise settlement from his endorser, C. W. Warren, by which we received a cash payment of $110.00 in full settlement, leaving a balance of $190.00.

President Combs presented the following matters for Mary Washington College:

Total enrollment, 1944-45, including summer quarter, 2007.

President Combs presented the report of his local Building Committee, composed of C. O'Conor Goolrick, Edgar E. Woodward, Eugene Curtis and himself, covering the construction to be done for which appropriations have been made and which are available subject to release by the Governor, as follows:

The report detailed the construction that would be required to take care of the estimated ultimate population of 2000 students for which estimated appropriations would be required, as follows:

The foregoing report was considered at length and, on motion, was unanimously adopted. The Secretary of the Board was directed to mail to the Governor two copies of the report.

With respect to the appointment of J. Binford Walford as the architect for the construction work at Mary Washington College, his selection was deemed satisfactory, and on motion, duly seconded, it was voted that he be not required to have an associate.

President Combs stated that the Governor had given his assent to the purchase from the present owner Sue L. Boulware, for the cash price of $50,000.00, her residence property consisting of a lot containing 3.6 acres and a commodious brick residence adjoining the present College property, being more fully described in draft of an un-executed deed, made a part of the minutes of this meeting.

The following motion, duly seconded, was adopted:

WHEREAS, the hereinafter described real estate is needed for the purposes of the Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and can be purchased from the present owner, Sue L. Boulware, for the cash price of $50,000.00;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the purchase of said real estate for the price set out above is hereby approved, the real estate being described in draft of an un-executed deed, presented to the Board, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that when duly executed, together with certificate of title and abstract have been approved by the attorney for the University, the proper officers of the Board are hereby authorized and directed to accept said deed, make payment of the said sum to Sue L. Boulware, and have said deed recorded.

President Comb's recommendation that Mary Washington College students be permitted to enroll for flying instruction with the Garner Aviation Service, Inc., of Fredericksburg, Va., was discussed with the conclusion that no action on the part of the Board was necessary.

The following appointments made to the faculty of Mary Washington College by President Combs during the summer were approved:

Thelma Baughan, Instructor in Home Economics and Dietitian in the College Shoppe, for a tenure of one year, at a salary of $1800 for nine months.

James W. Blincoe, Acting Professor of Mathematics, for a tenure of one year, at a salary of $3000, to substitute in the absence of Dr. Charles H. Frick who is in military service.

Henry Grady Britt, Assistant Professor of Biology, for a tenure of one year, at a salary of $2,500.

Herman J. Bryson, Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Geology, for a tenure of one year, at a salary of $2,000.

Dr. Robert L. Hilldrup, Professor of History, tenure of three years, at a salary of $3000 per year.

Eleanor Jones, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, tenure one year, at a salary of $2,100. Miss Jones will substitute in the absence of Anna S. Hoye who is in military service.

Blanche E. Price, Instructor in Home Economics, tenure one year, at a salary of $1,800.

John A. Spaulding, Assistant Professor of Spanish, tenure one year, at a salary of $2,150.

Arthur E. Whitenack, Assistant Librarian, tenure one year, at a salary of $2,500 for twelve months.

Dr. Nancy S. Whittacar, College Physician, tenure one year, at a salary of $3,500 for twelve months.

The meeting then adjourned.
