---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1946'
month: 8
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1946) August 31, 1946
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

August 31, 1946

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 11 O'clock in the office of the President, with the following present: The Rector, E. R. Stettinius, Jr., Visitors E. C. Anderson, Mrs. J. M. H. Willis, M. H. Bustard, Thomas B. Gay, and G. Tyler Miller; President Newcomb and President Combs.

President Newcomb stated that the principle business of the meeting was the reconsideration of the Board's action rejecting the proposal to admit male veterans as day students at the Mary Washington College.

The following letter in the matter addressed to President Combs was read:

I have brought your letter to the attention of Governor Fuck and he has requested me to write you and ask you to initiate the action necessary to call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors to reconsider their action rejecting the proposal to admit male veterans as day students at the Mary Washington College. The Governor feels that the action of the Board of Visitors is directly at odds with the policy of the State Board of Education and the policy he has set forth himself in regard to veterans education. If there are male veterans in the vicinity of Fredericksburg, married or single, who would find it more convenient to attend Mary Washington College, the Governor feels that they must be allowed to do so. Since the time remaining before the opening of the Fall term is short, the Governor urges you to re-open this matter with the Board as soon as possible.

When you are in Richmond, the Governor will be happy to talk to you about this matter, but does not consider a special trip necessary.

With all good wishes, I am

The action of the Board of Visitors at the meetings of June 1st and August 9th on the subject of admitting male day students applied to all male students, and not merely to war veterans.

Mr. Miller stated that following an opinion of the Attorney General in the matter of admitting male non-boarding veterans to the State Teachers Colleges at Farmville and Harrisonburg, the State Board of Education authorized their admission.

Following some discussion of the matter, Mr. Gay offered the following which was adopted:

RESOLVED, that, if in the opinion of the Attorney General they may be legally admitted, non-boarding male veterans, married or single, be admitted to Mary Washington College during the 1946-47 session, in view of the unprecedented demand for and present lack of educational facilities in colleges admitting male students in the State of Virginia.

The President presented a communication he had received from Governor Tuck on the proposed expenditure for the renovation of the Brompton property at Mary Washington College, the estimate for which was in excess of the amount allotted therefor. Dr. Combs explained that since the date of the Governor's letter, a conference had been had with the Budget Director, during which it was explained to him that certain renovations could be eliminated or reduced in cost.

Following some discussion of the matter, the following motion was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the members of the Board's committee on the Mary Washington College be and they are hereby requested to consider the Governor's proposal and to report their recommendations at the regular monthly meeting of the Board on September 13th.

The meeting then adjourned.

I have brought your letter to the attention of Governor Fuck and he has requested me to write you and ask you to initiate the action necessary to call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors to reconsider their action rejecting the proposal to admit male veterans as day students at the Mary Washington College. The Governor feels that the action of the Board of Visitors is directly at odds with the policy of the State Board of Education and the policy he has set forth himself in regard to veterans education. If there are male veterans in the vicinity of Fredericksburg, married or single, who would find it more convenient to attend Mary Washington College, the Governor feels that they must be allowed to do so. Since the time remaining before the opening of the Fall term is short, the Governor urges you to re-open this matter with the Board as soon as possible.

When you are in Richmond, the Governor will be happy to talk to you about this matter, but does not consider a special trip necessary.

With all good wishes, I am

I have brought your letter to the attention of Governor Fuck and he has requested me to write you and ask you to initiate the action necessary to call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors to reconsider their action rejecting the proposal to admit male veterans as day students at the Mary Washington College. The Governor feels that the action of the Board of Visitors is directly at odds with the policy of the State Board of Education and the policy he has set forth himself in regard to veterans education. If there are male veterans in the vicinity of Fredericksburg, married or single, who would find it more convenient to attend Mary Washington College, the Governor feels that they must be allowed to do so. Since the time remaining before the opening of the Fall term is short, the Governor urges you to re-open this matter with the Board as soon as possible.

When you are in Richmond, the Governor will be happy to talk to you about this matter, but does not consider a special trip necessary.

With all good wishes, I am
