---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1948'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSELECTIONSSIGNING OF LEASES FOR UNIVERSITYRURAL MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPSUNIVERSITY PRESS BUILDINGHIGHWAY RESEARCH IN DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERINGCITY WATER SUPPLYRESTORATION OF GROUNDS BY GARDEN CLUBBUILDING PLAN FOR UNIVERSITYMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSENROLLMENTSPECIAL FEE FOR RETIRING PROPOSED BOND ISSUEREDEMPTION OF BONDSNOTICE OF REDEMPTION OF BONDS OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGEDORMITORY ROOM RENTTUITIONEASEMENT TO MONTFORT ACADEMYSUMMER SESSION COURSES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Mrs. Lottie C. Antrim, of Waynesboro, Virginia, for research in the medical school

$10,000.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used at the discretion of the President

500.00

From Dr. Frederick H. Wilke, an alumnus of the Medical School, to be used for the Medical School Library

200.00

In Residence Full Time

1,500

Part Time, Special, and Extension

74

TOTAL

1,574

Male Veterans

37

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Black, Calcott, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Miller, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Gravatt.

The minutes of the meeting of October 8, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

Upon recommendation of President Darden, the following elections were approved:

Dr. Vernon William Lippard as Dean of the Department of Medicine and Professor of Pediatrics at a salary of $12,000 a year, beginning February 1, 1949.

Dr. V. Webster Johnson as part-time Lecturer in Rural Economics for the second semester of the session of 1948-49 at a salary of $800.00.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by this Board on September 12, 1947, authorizing Dean J. N. G. Finley and Dean Roberta Hollingsworth to sign leases for rooms and apartments in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University, be and it is hereby rescinded; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the following officials of the University be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to sign leases for rooms and apartments in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Dean of Students - leases for men's dormitories and for trailers and apartments;

Director of Housing - leases for men's dormitories and for trailers and apartments,

Dean of Women - for women's dormitories.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Bursar of the University be and he is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University, releases of assignment of insurance policies made by students of the University receiving scholarships from the University under the provisions of Chapter 354 of the Acts of Assembly of 1942, as amended, and Chapter 529 of the Acts of Assembly of 1948, when either such scholarships have been repaid in full, with interest, or the recipients of the scholarships have complied with the provisions of said Acts.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to proceed with the construction of a one-story building for the University Press, to be located in the rear of the Engineering Building.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of the Department of Engineering, a contract with the Virginia Department of Highways for the establishment and operation of laboratories for joint highway research, the work to be carried on at the University of Virginia.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the City of Charlottesville be and is hereby authorized to construct a small booster plant for the City water supply, this plant to be located on a small plot on Lambeth Field.

The President reported to the Board that he had had a number of conversations with officials of the Garden Clubs of Virginia and that they had generously consented to make the University the beneficiary of the funds collected during Garden Club Week. He stated that the Clubs wished to enter into the restoration of the walls and gardens set forth in the plan shown on the engraving done for Mr. Jefferson by Mr. Maverick in 1822 and 1825.

The President expressed the opinion that he feared the undertaking to be far more expensive than it was thought to be by the Restroation Committee of the Garden Clubs of Virginia, since it involved the moving of many of the present walls, the building of new walls on the sites of the old ones and the relocation of the reads between the Lawns and the Ranges. Nor did he think the work should be undertaken unless funds were in view for the completion of the task. He pointed out that partial completion would leave the grounds t of balance.

After extended discussion the Board concluded to authorize the restoration of the area lying between West Lawn and West Range, in the hope that the entire restoration could be accomplished over a period of years.

The President stated that he had assured faculty members who had become disturbed over changes that might be made in the gardens attached to their pavilions that no action would be taken in reference to the property occupied by them that did not have their approval.

The President and the Board expressed their deep appreciation of the generous and helpful offer of assistance from the Garden Clubs of Virginia.

The President also reported to the Board that the James River Garden Club had visited the University during October and had been guests of the University for lunch at the Commons. The visitors expressed a keen interest in being participants in the plans being made for the beautification of the grounds.

The Rector inquired of the President as to whether any consideration was being given to changes in Route #250, lying between the Rotunda and Madison Hall. The President stated that he thought an effort should be made to re-route much of the traffic now using #250 around the University, since the congestion at the intersection of Rugby Road and #250 was very dangerous. The President went on to say that he had given much time during the past year to the plans for new buildings for the University and that he would like to suggest that careful study be given to a long-range plan for the development of the University to the north.

He proposed: that the University acquire all the land lying between Route #250, Rugby Road, Madison Lane and the C & O Railway - the acquisition to take place over a period of years, that eventually Madison Hall be removed and the bowl be developed as a lawn with a building comparable to Cabell Hall at the north and at the same distance from the Rotunda; that along the sides there be constructed, as needed, academic buildings. He stated he thought it likely that space west of Rugby Road might ultimately be required as well as space east of Madison Lane for the construction of buildings, and that if such should be the case both Rugby Road and Madison Lane would have to be relocated.

The President emphasized the fact that while many years and much money would be required for the execution of such a plan, even if it were thought desirable, it could never be done at all unless at some time the University authorities were prepared to agree upon and chart the course to be followed. He urged that this be done now.

The Board expressed a lively interest in the proposal and asked the President to continue his studies and to submit at a convenient date a rough draft of the plan. He stated that probably several months would be required but that he would report again to the Board as soon as the plans could be assembled.

President Combs presented a report on enrollment at Mary Washington College for the session 1948-49, incorporating the following information:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to charge a special fee of $15.00 per semester to all students enrolled in the General Session, beginning with September 1949, for the purpose of financing the proposed bond issue necessary to supplement the State appropriations for improvements to the Dining Hall; with the understanding that this fee not be charged to students enrolled in the Summer Session.

Copies of correspondence with the Governor concerning possible redemption on July 1, 1949 of outstanding bonds, and a report prepared by Mr. W. Allen Perkins, Attorney for the University, were presented. These communications having been considered by the Board, the following resolution, offered by Mrs. Wailes and seconded by Mr. Carrington, was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That it is the opinion of this Board that all of the bonds of Mary Washington College known as Administration Building Revenue Bonds and as Dormitory Building Revenue Bonds, which will nature after July 1, 1949, and which are outstanding and unpaid as of that date, should be paid in full and therefore this Board hereby elects to exercise its option of redeeming said bonds on July 1, 1949, which is an interest payment date, at the redemption price of 105% of the principal amount thereof and accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption, and Edgar E. Woodward, Treasurer of Mary Washington College, is hereby instructed to give notice of the election of this Board to redeem said bonds as aforesaid by publication in the Richmond Times Dispatch, a newspaper published and of general circulation in the City of Richmond, Virginia, which notice shall be published in all editions of said newspaper at least once at least six months prior to July 1, 1949, and said notice shall be in the following form:

TO THE HOLDERS OF OUTSTANDING ADMINISTRATION BUILDING REVENUE BONDS, and DORMITORY BUILDING REVENUE BONDS of Mary Washington College (formerly known as State Teachers College at Fredericksburg, Virginia, and now being Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia).

Notice is hereby given by the above named institution of its election to redeem on July 1, 1949, all of the following bonds heretofore issued by it.

FIRST: All of its ADMINISTRATION BUILDING REVENUE BONDS dated June 30, 1938, which were issued pursuant to resolution of Virginia State Board of Education adopted June 28, 1938, now outstanding and which will mature after July 1, 1949.

SECOND: All of its DORMITORY BUILDING REVENUE BONDS dated June 30, 1938, which were issued pursuant to resolution of Virginia State Board of Education adopted June 30, 1938, now outstanding and which will mature after July 1, 1949.

Holders of all of said bonds are hereby notified to present them for payment on July 1, 1949, at the office of the Treasurer of Virginia in Richmond, Virginia, at which time and place said bonds maturing after July 1, 1949, will be paid at the rate of one hundred and five per centum (105%) of the principal amount thereof and accrued interest to July 1, 1949. Interest on said bonds shall cease to be payable from and after July 1, 1949, and it being understood that no premium will be due or payable on any of the bonds of either series which mature on July 1, 1949.

This notice is given by

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By M. L. Combs, PRESIDENT

By order of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia pursuant to Resolution of its Board of Visitors adopted at a meeting of said Board held November 12, 1948.

COLGATE W. DARDEN, JR.

PRESIDENT

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Governor William M. Tuck is hereby requested to authorize Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia to incur a deficit, if such be needed, to meet the payment of the bonds herein called.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to increase the charge of room rent for students enrolled in the General Session from $54.00 to $63.00 per semester, beginning September 1949, with the understanding that this increase will not apply to students enrolled in the Summer Session.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to increase the charge for non-resident tuition from $100.00 per semester to $110.00 per semester, beginning September 1949, with the understanding that this increase will not apply to students enrolled in the Summer Session.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that a revocable easement be and is hereby granted to Montfort Academy for the purpose of installing a 6-inch underground water main extending from the intersection of College Avenue and Hanover Street across the Brompton property to the property line of the Academy, with the provision that the said Montfort Academy install certain outlets or connections on the Brompton property for use by the college, and that this easement be subject to cancellation upon six months notice given in writing by either party; with the further provision that the said Montfort Academy shall save the College harmless in the installation and operation of the project.

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman of the Committee on Mary Washington College, presented a recommendation of the Committee, which was approved, as follows:

The Committee on Mary Washington recommends that Mary Washington College be permitted to offer, in its summer school session, work in applied courses not included in its regular curriculum, but that only courses offered for credit also during the regular college session be accepted for credit towards the degrees new awarded at Mary Washington, and with existing limitations.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.
