---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1948'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
ENROLLMENTGIFTAPPOINTMENTVIRGINIA QUARTERLY REVIEWBROOKS MUSEUMMEETINGS OF BOARD AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGELAMBETH PROPERTYBUILDING PROGRAMNCAA REGULATIONSATHLETICS COMMITTEENAVY AWARD TO PRESIDENTDEVELOPMENT FUNDTRUSTEES OF DEVELOPMENT FUNDSTUDENT COUNCILGENERAL REPORT OF THE STUDENT COUNCIL TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIASteps Taken by CouncilI. Student CommitteeII. Publicitya. Talks to fraternitiesb. Other PublicitySteps Contemplated by CouncilRecommendationsConclusionMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSCONTRACT WITH VETERANS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Remainder of bequest from the Rucker estate, to be used for the Hospital, approximately

$17,000.00

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the fellowing present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Black, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, and Wailes. Absent: Calcott, Carrington, Combs, Garnett, Miller, Trout, and Willis.

The minutes of the meeting of September 10, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported that the enrollment of the University stood at 4,893.

The President announced the fellowing gift:

The following appointment was ratified:

Dr. John R. Morris, Jr. as Instructor in Medicine, without salary from the University, effective September 23, 1948.

The Board approved an increase in the appropriation for the Virginia Quarterly Review from $2,500 to $4,500 for the fiscal year 1948-49.

A request from Professor Wilbur A. Nelson for permission to remove the mastodon and dinosaur from Brooks Museum to allow more laboratory space was approved. The Secretary of the Board was asked to investigate any stipulations set forth at the time the gift of the Brooks Museum was made.

President Darden reported that, in accordance with action of the Board taken on 10 September 1948, he and President Combs of Mary Washington College had agreed that Board meetings would be held at Mary Washington College in November, February and May.

The President reported the execution and delivery of a deed conveying ten feet of land to Mrs. . A. Lambeth, as authorized by the Board on 10 September 1948.

Approval was given by the Board of plans for an Addition to the Law School and for a Press Building. The President reported that he is requesting the Governor to release funds for the Addition to the Law School and for plans for the Academic Building.

The President reported receipt of a questionnaire from the National Collegiate Athletic Association requesting information on our aid to athletes. He stated that this questionnaire was being sent to all colleges and universities. The President requested permission to compile the data requested, and asked that the Special Committee on NCAA Regulations sit with him to decide whether the University should resign from the NCAA. A motion by Mr. Anderson was adopted requesting the Special Committee on NCAA Regulations to study further the matter of participation in the NCAA before the University withdrew from the organization, and to report to the Board at the next meeting.

Mr. Gay requested that the Board of Visitors be consulted prior to the signing of contracts for football games.

The Rector proposed the establishment of a standing Committee on Athletics, to consist of three members of the Board. This proposal was approved, and the Rector appointed to the Committee Messrs. Carrington, Chairman, Anderson and Gravatt. The Board conferred upon the Committee broad powers to investigate the athletic policy of the University and to report to the Board from time to time.

The Board congratulated the President on an award to be presented to him by the Navy next month.

Mr. Anderson presented a report on the Development Fund, showing total receipts to October 3, 1948 as $1,022,433.48 and total disbursements to the same date as $235,677.47. A budget for the period from October 3, 1948 to January 1, 1949 was approved in the amount of $17,975.10 by the Board.

Mr. Anderson presented for consideration of the Board copy of a resolution adopted October 6, 1948 by the Executive Committee of the Development Fund.

RESOLVED, That the Executive Committee of the University of Virginia Development Fund respectfully suggest to the President of the University that he initiate a survey of all Publicity and Public Relations undertakings now being carried on at, for and by the University. This would include general University publicity, the University catalogue, publications of the Extension Division, publications of the Department of Education, of the Medical School and of the Law School, the Athletic Department, the Alumni Association, Cavalier Daily, Corks and Curls, and all other student or University publications, as well as any special bulletins or publications that may be published from time to time by specific groups, such as the Medical Alumni and Law Alumni, the "Board of Aldermen" of the Library, Tracy W. McGregor Library.

This survey would include a study of the cost involved, the source of the funds, the personnel and authorization of publications and the distribution involved.

The President stated that it would be impossible at this time to make such a survey. It was suggested that the Development Fund might finance such a survey, and the President stated that he would make available any records of the University needed for that purpose.

Mr. Anderson reported the appointment by the Executive Committee of the Development Fund of the following Trustees of the Development Fund:

C. Francis Cocke

Charles A. Ferguson

Joseph M. Hartfield

William S. Hildreth

Arthur J. Morris

Buford Scott

J. Brockenbrough Woodward

Roanoke, Virginia

Newport News, Virginia

New York, N. Y.

Charlottesville, Virginia

New York, N. Y.

Richmond, Virginia

Newport News, Virginia

The Board approved a proposal by the Executive Committee of the Development Fund to amend the report of the Special Committee, appointed by Admiral Halsey, to the Executive Committee of the Development Fund, as adopted by the Board of Visitors on 13 February 1948. The amendment deletes the phrase "But in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be paid over to the Bursar to be expended as the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may direct," substituting therefor the phrase "But in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be accrued until such time as there be joint agreement and used exclusively for the benefit of the University of Virginia". The report, as thus amended and adopted by the Board of Visitors is as follows:

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act ..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be accrued until such time as there be joint agreement and used exclusively for the benefit of the University of Virginia; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The President stated that he had received a report from the Student Council in which the Board was requested to reconsider the prohibition now in effect against having women visitors in rooms on the Lawn and Ranges and in dormitory buildings. The Board accepted the report.

This committee is to function at all athletic and social events, and student gatherings of every nature. These men are responsible to the Council for the maintenance of proper standards of student conduct. Offenders are to be reported to the Council and given a hearing, and disciplinary measures are to be imposed by the Council.

Realizing that the social fraternities are the largest organized group at the University, the members of the Council met with each fraternity individually on 22 September 1948, explaining the Council's assumption of responsibility for student conduct, and asking cooperation and support. The various Council members endeavored to answer any questions pertaining to this plan, and any others pertaining to Student Government at the University. The Council expects to continue to make these talks to various other organizations in the future.

On September 16, 1948, the Student Council published in the Cavalier Daily an open letter to the student body, explaining the disciplinary powers of the Council (see inclosure). A similar letter was published on September 24, explaining the functions of the Student Committee. As a supplement to this, a news item was also published on September 24, explaining the Student Committee (see inclosure). In addition, on September 23, the Council published a general review of its meeting of September 21 (see inclosure).

I. The Student Council will hold the Interfraternity Council strictly accountable for the observance by the social fraternities of the University's rules governing conduct in fraternity houses. In addition, the Council will hold other organizations responsible for conduct at such social functions as these organizations may sponsor.

II. The Student Council during the coming year will undertake an intensive program of publicity, with a view toward building up student support and sentiment in favor of the improvements of standards of deportment.

The Student Council earnestly recommends two changes in University regulations:

a. Permitting women visitors in rooms on the Lawn and Ranges and in dormitory buildings during certain hours. The Council feels that as there are practically no recreational facilities provided by the University for the major part of the student body, there is a real need for some place where students can entertain visitors. The Council believes that if a suitable arrangement could be made, such regulations could be enforced by the dormitory counselors.

b. The abolition of the rule requiring chaperones in fraternity houses. This recommendation is not made because the Council feels that chaperones per se are objectionable, but principally because of the practical difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of chaperones. There are 27 fraternity houses on the Grounds, at which chaperones are required two nights a week. In a city the size of Charlottesville, it is extremely difficult - if not impossible - to obtain 54 chaperones each week. As an alternative to this, the Council recommends that the University devise some plan to furnish chaperones, or at least to assist fraternities in procuring them.

The Council feels that it should state that it cannot accept responsibility for the apprehension of students guilty of isolated instances of student misconduct off the Grounds of the University. However, the Council wishes to make it clear that it will discipline any students brought before this body for such incidents. Furthermore, the Council will endeavor to prevent such cases by attempting to build up student sentiment against such misconduct.

The President called the attention of the Board to a resolution adopted by this Board at its meeting of February 14, 1947, by which Morgan L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, was authorized to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a contract between said Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia and Veterans Administration, providing for instruction during the period from September 1, 1946, to June 30, 1947, inclusive, of Veterans who are approved by the Veterans Administration as entitled to Vocational Rehabilitation Training under Public Law 16, 78th Congress, and to furnish books, tools, equipment, etc., necessary for the satisfactory pursuit of the courses being given, and, by said resolution, E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, was instructed to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to said contract and to attest the same. And that said contract be and is adopted as a contract of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. It will be observed that this resolution provides for the execution of a specific contract for the session 1946 and 1947. This Board is advised that other contracts of a similar nature between the University and the Veterans Administration will be necessary for sessions subsequent to the session of 1946 and 1947, and that it is desirable to have one resolution which will authorize the execution of these contracts in such subsequent years without specific action of this Board as to each contract.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that Morgan L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, said College being a department of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia corporation which owns and operates the University of Virginia, and said Mary Washington College, be and is hereby authorized and directed in the name and on behalf of said Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, to execute any contract or contracts between said College and Veterans Administration that may be approved by him and which will provide for instruction of Veterans who are approved by the Veterans Administration as entitled to training under Public Law 346 or to Vocational Rehabilitation Training under Public Law 16, 78th Congress, and any amendments thereof, and to furnish books, tools, equipment, etc., necessary for the satisfactory pursuit of the courses to be given; the terms under which said Veterans are to be accepted by the College to be fully set out in each such contract.

And Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, is hereby instructed to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to said contract, and to attest the same. And said Morgan L. Combs, President as aforesaid, and Vincent Shea, Secretary, shall report their actions under this resolution to the next meeting of this Board succeeding the execution and delivery by them of any such contract.

And a copy of each such contract shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting of this Board to which such report is made.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act ..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be accrued until such time as there be joint agreement and used exclusively for the benefit of the University of Virginia; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.

The undersigned Committee, appointed by Chairman Halsey at the meeting of the Executive Committee held September 11, 1947, to investigate and report upon the best method to be employed in the handling and administration of funds obtained through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign, respectfully advises as follows:

I. The Committee is unanimously of opinion that the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia is presently without power to constitute a new and separate Board of Trustees to hold and administer funds that may now be obtaining through the efforts of the Development Fund Campaign. Its reasons for entertaining this view are as follows:

The Society of Alumni of the University of Virginia was incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of this State, adopted February 6, 1873. By an amendment approved March 7, 1903, the name of the Society was changed to the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. By Section Seven of this Act, the Association was given "power to raise an endowment fund for the use and benefit of the University, to be held by the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds, and all funds belonging to said Association in excess of $1,000, and all those donated for the purpose of building a public hall, shall be similarly invested and only disposed of as they may be deemed for the purposes of the Association or the University." By Section Eight of the Act the Association was given power to receive and hold property and donations passing by grant, conveyance, demise or bequest, "under the general powers of endowment created in the Seventh Section of this Act ..."

It is thus seen that under the charter of the Association at that time in effect any endowment fund raised by it for the use and benefit of the University had to be held by "the Treasurer of the State, in Virginia registered century bonds." Your Committee is informed that when the Association interested itself in the raising of an endowment in 1907 and 1908 at least one large donor refused to give funds which would be subject to the political control of the State of Virginia. The aforementioned sections Seven and Eight of the charter of the Association were therefore amended as of December 5, 1907, so as to authorize the Association to appoint by deed of trust a Board of seven Trustees, to be known and designated as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund." It was provided that this "Board and its successors shall be perpetual and its duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities shall be irrevocable, to hold, manage, invest and expend the funds now raised, or hereafter to be raised, or any gift or grant heretofore or hereafter made to the General Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter and the provisions of said deed of trust herein authorized to be executed, which deed shall define the duties, powers, rights, privileges and responsibilities of said Board."

Pursuant to the foregoing provisions of the charter of the Association, as amended, it executed on February 15, 1908, a deed to Joseph Bryan, Thomas Nelson Page, Thomas F. Ryan, Alexander P. Humphrey, Charles J. Faulkner and Williamson W. Fuller, and Edwin A. Alderman, President of the University of Virginia, ex officio, Trustees, to be known as "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" transferring and conveying "all gifts, funds, moneys, investments or subscriptions now made or which may hereafter be made, to the said Trustees for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia," together with "all such grants, gifts, funds, moneys, investments, interest, credit, bonds, notes, or subscriptions that may hereafter be made of every character or description whatsoever, including income, revenues, issues and profits thereof, either directly to the Trustees, parties of the second part, or to this Association for the benefit of the University of Virginia."

While the charter of the Association has since three times been amended, on August 4, 1922, January 24, 1929 and September 9, 1933, the rights, powers and duties of the Trustees and their successors, appointed by the aforesaid deed of trust of February 15, 1908, have been fully preserved, it having been expressly provided in the amendment of September 9, 1933, that -

"It (the Alumni Board) shall hold, manage, invest and expend, the funds raised or hereafter to be raised, or any gifts or grants heretofore or hereafter made by will, deed or otherwise, to it, or to the Alumni Association for the use and benefit of the said Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia under the terms of this charter."

It seems to your Committee, therefore, that title to any funds presently solicited by, or obtained as a result of the efforts of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia would necessarily pass to "The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" created by the deed of February 15, 1908, and their successors presently in office. The execution of a further or additional deed of trust at this time, whereby a new board of trustees would be created for the purpose of receiving title to, possession and control of funds likely to be raised in the present campaign would not, therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, be presently within the power of the Association.

II. In this situation a majority of your Committee, Messrs. Scott and Hildreth, are of opinion that a new non-profit, non-stock corporation should be organized under the provisions of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia, to be designated as "The University of Virginia Development Fund," that there be seven Trustees presently selected and named to manage the affairs and investments of the corporation, and that the President of the University be at all times, ex officio, a Trustee of the corporation; that the first seven Trustees be selected by this Executive Committee to serve for terms of one to seven years, respectively, the term of each Trustee to be determined by lot after their selection by the Executive Committee; that no Trustee drawing a term of more than three years shall be eligible for re-election but that any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for election for one additional term of seven years, that the first seven Trustees be selected without reference to their respective ages, but that all successor Trustees shall be of the age of 57 years or less, so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service they would have attained an age of not to exceed 65 years, that all successor Trustees be nominated by a majority vote of the Trustees then in office, such nominations to receive the approval of the majority of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia in attendance upon any meeting at which the selection of a successor Trustee shall come before the Board of Managers for consideration and action; that for each vacancy the Trustees then in office shall nominate three persons, one of whom shall be selected by the Board of Managers in the manner stated; that the charter of the corporation provide that all securities held by it shall be placed in the possession, as custodian, of some trust company or bank having trust powers, organized under the laws of the State of Virginia and/or of the United States and doing business in Virginia, with capital, surplus and undivided profits of not less than $2,000,000.00, and that the corporation may in its discretion employ the services of some corporation or individual, or duly accredited officer of the University, as investment counsel; that the corporation shall apply faithfully the gifts or grants to the objects or purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but when no direction, condition or limitation is attached to the gift or grant, the corporation shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest in accordance with the discretion of its Trustees, and the income from any and all funds at any time held by the corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor, be applied to the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference with the President, Rector and Visitors of the University, and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or a part of such annual income, the Corporation shall pay the same, or the part as to which an agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University, to be expended as agreed upon, but in the absence of any such agreement, all of such income shall be accrued until such time as there be joint agreement and used exclusively for the benefit of the University of Virginia; that the corporation, acting through its Board of Trustees, shall have the broadest investment discretion and special care should be taken in the preparation of its charter to see that its powers are expressed in terms in conformity with modern investment practice.

If such development fund corporation is organized, Mr. Gay concurs in the statements in this report as to the manner of its creation, the selection of its director-trustees and the manner in which they and the corporation shall function, but reserves for further consideration any expression of opinion upon the question whether, in the over-all interest of the University, it is wise and expedient to create at this time a new agency for holding and administering funds procured through the conduct of the campaign presently being undertaken.
