---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1948'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSEDUCATIONAL SURVEY BY DEAN FINLEYBENJAMIN F. MINOR BEQUESTPUBLICITY OF MINUTES OF BOARD MEETINGSPROPOSED BEQUEST FOR SCHOLARSHIP FUNDSIGNING OF ALCOHOL TAX UNIT REPORTSLEASE OF MILTON AIRPORTMCGREGOR LIBRARYCHANGES IN PEOPLES BANK BUILDINGAPRIL MEETING OF BOARDPROPOSED ARMY ROTC UNITSTOCK TRANSFERSLOCATION OF NEW UNIVERSITY PRESSDEVELOPMENT FUNDDEFICIT IN INAUGURAL FUNDREPORT ON N.C.A.A.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of Mrs. Evelyn May Bayly Tiffany, to be added to the Bayly-Tiffany Scholarship Fund, securities valued at

$ 41,282.75

From the estate of William James Rucker, the income to be used for the Hospital, cash

48,689.27

and securities valued at

328,352.11

From the National Research Council, Committee on Aviation Psychology, to be used for the translation of a Japanese text, under the direction of Professor F. A. Geldard

300.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, a grant for technical assistance to Professor Alfred Burger to aid in a chemical research project

675.00

From the American Cancer Society, a grant from July 1, 1948 to June 30, 1949, for experimental study under the supervision of Dr. C. C. Speidel

500.00

From the American Cancer Society, a grant from July 1, 1948 to June 30, 1949, for study under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill

9,500.00

From Mr. Clifton Waller Barrett, for the publications fund of the Alderman Library

250.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, a grant for cancer research, under Dr. William H. Parker's supervision

24,800.00

1937

$ 5.00

1938

20.00

1939

15.00

1940

15.00

1941

5.00

1943

20.00

1944

15.00

1945

10.00

1946

10.00

Shares

Class

Certificate Nos.

3 shs

Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad Co.

$5 Pfd.

P025576

3

Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Co.

7% Pfd. A

P0115621

55

West Penn Power Co.

4½% Prd.

P06377

8

Central Electric & Gas Company

Common

C0 8414

67

Chrysler Corporation

Common

D057230

3,074

Dun & Bradstreet, Inc.

Common

TC04147, TC04148, TC04149, TC04150

22

E. I. duPont de Nemours and Co.

Common

WE120544

9

Farmington, Incorporated

Capital

281

89

General Electric Co.

Common

NYE654721

67

General Moters Corp.

Common

WC562-043

7

Gulf, Mobile and Ohie Railroad Co.

Common

C022278

45

Hartford Fire Ins. Co.

Capital

122619

44

Insurance Company of North America

Capital

P039472

67

International Nickel Co. of Canada, Ltd.

Common

NB421898

4

Jackson Park Hotel Co. Inc.

Capital

1942

4

Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad Co.

Common

C074005

66

Montgomery Ward and Co.

Common

CC/0 60874

14

Peoples National Bank of Charlettesville

Common

5953

78

Phelps-Dodge Corp.

Capital

0199872

178

Sears, Roebuck and Co.

Capital

C61523, C0289614

45

Union Carbide and Carben Corp.

Capital

D60313

133

Westinghouse Electric Corp.

Common

CN31, C0126073

$ 300.

City of Baltimore, Md. 2nd School Serial loan 4% due May 1, 1948

5986

600.

City of Baltimore, Md. 2nd Water Serial Loan 4% due May 1, 1950

6201

200.

City of Baltimore, Md. Annex Improvement Loan 4% due Aug. 1, 1951

4662

600.

City of Baltimore, Md. Paving Loan 4% due Aug. 1, 1951

8493

3,300.

City of Baltimore, Md. 2nd Water Serial Loan 4% due May 1, 1952

6202

2,800.

City of Baltimore, Md. 2nd Water Serial Loan 4% due May 1, 1953

6203

700.

City of Baltimore, Md. Annex Improvement Loan 4% due June 1, 1954

4829

500.

City of Baltimore, Md. 1958 Water Loan 4% due Dec. 1, 1958

8575

100.

City of Baltimore, Md. Burnt District Improvement Loan 4% due April 1, 1960

1760

2,300.

City of Baltimore, Md. Dock Improvement Loan 4% due March 1, 1961

3517

400.

City of Baltimore, Md. Schoolhouse Loan 4% due March 1, 1961

3086

600.

City of Baltimore, Md. New Sewerage Improvement Loan 4% due Aug. 1, 1961

15950

1,300.

City of Baltimore, Md. Conduit Loan 4% due Aug. 1, 1962

3671

12,200.

City of Baltimore, Md. New Sewerage Improvement Loan 3½% due Oct. 1, 1980

7098

The regular monthly meeting of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Black, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Barksdale, Calcott, Combs, and Miller.

The minutes of the meeting of February 13, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dean J. N. G. Finley be authorized to accept a grant for a three months survey of adult education in Great Britain, his regular salary to be continued during this period.

Visitor: Mr. Perkins.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented the following letter:

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held February 13, 1948, I am advised that -

"The President was requested by the Board to refer to Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, for an opinion, the question of what agency of the University should receive the Minor bequest".

This action of the Board arises out of the following fact - that by his will, dated January 31, 1945, and recently admitted to probate by the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, the late Benjamin F. Minor, of Washington, D. C., made the following bequest -

"To the University of Virginia, of Charlottesville, Virginia, as a part of its Alumni Fund, the sum of Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00)."

I do not think there is any legal question involved in this situation, the actual question presented being whether Mr. Minor intended to give this money to -

(1) The University of Virginia Alumni Fund

(2) The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, or

(3) The University of Virginia Development Fund

We have not had in our files a copy of Mr. Minor's will but I am reliably advised that the quotation above given contains the only reference made in the will to this bequest.

In a letter written by Mr. William H. White, Jr., Treasurer of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, to President Darden, on January 2, 1948, he quotes as follows from a letter dated December 31, 1947, written to him by the Vice-President and Trust Officer of National Savings and Trust Company of Washington, D. C., one of the Executors of Mr. Minor's estate -

"Mrs. Minor advises me that as far back as 1937 Mr. Minor made yearly contributions to the Alumni Fund and also that in his wills back to 1939 this bequest to the University is included."

I am advised by Mr. J. Malcolm Luck, Alumni Secretary, that during his lifetime Mr. Minor made the following contributions to the University of Virginia Alumni Fund -

It is perfectly clear to me, therefore, that when Mr. Minor said this bequest was to be used by the University "as a part of its Alumni Fund", he meant the University of Virginia Alumni Fund, and did not intend it to go either to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund or to the Development Fund. He certainly did not intend it for the Development Fund for his will was executed January 31, 1945, before that fund was started.

It is my opinion, therefore, that this Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00), which I understand has been paid to the University by Mr. Minor's Executors, should be turned over to the University Alumni Fund, through its Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. J. Malcolm Luck.

If I am correct in my reasoning, and I think I am, this is a bequest to a definite instrumentality or agency of the University of Virginia. The larger question of whether the Board of Visitors of the University has the right to delegate to any department, agency or instrumentality the handling and management of funds given to - "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia" is not here involved. It cannot be questioned that anyone has the right to give money either to the Alumni Board of Trustees or to the University Alumni Fund, or to any other agency, corporation or individual, natural or artificial, for the use of the University of Virginia. The present case, in my opinion, deals with a gift made directly for the specific use of the Alumni Fund and it is perfectly proper for the Board to turn the money over to the officers of that Fund.

In my opinion, it is only where the gift is made to the "University of Virginia", or to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", without designation as to the agency or instrumentality for whose use it is intended, that any question can arise as to the right of the Board of Visitors to delegate the management of such a fund.

The following resolution, proposed by Mr. Gay, was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the $2,000.00 bequest which has been paid to the University of Virginia by the Estate of the late Benjamin F. Minor of Washington, D. C. be turned over by the Bursar to the University of Virginia Alumni Fund through its Secretary-Treasurer.

Visitor: Mr. Perkins.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented the following letter:

I have been asked for an opinion as to whether or not the minutes of meetings of the Board of Visitors of the University are public documents. Since the minutes of the Board may be more accurately defined as "records", I will use the latter term in the following discussion.

In Greenleaf on Evidence, the writer in discussing "Writings", "Documents" and "Records", divides them into two classes - public and private, public writings being again subdivided into those which are public in every sense and those which he terms quasi public records. Records which are public in every sense consist of the acts of public functionaries in the legislative, judicial and executive departments of the government, while quasi public records are those which partake both of a public and private character and are treated as the one or the other according to the relation in which the applicant for inspection stands to them. Thus the books of a corporation are public with respect to its members but private with respect to strangers.

A public record has been defined as one required by law to be kept or necessary to be kept in the discharge of a duty imposed by law or directed by law to serve as a memorial and evidence of something written, said or done. 53 C.J. 604.

At common law a person may inspect public records in which he has an interest or make copies or memoranda thereof where a necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper and where the disclosure would not be detrimental to the public interest; but the gratification of mere curiosity or motives merely speculative, or the creation of scandal will not entitle a person to inspection or to make copies or memoranda. It has also been held that the right of the public generally to inspect public records must be based upon some statutory authority and that in the absence of a statute the right to inspect public records is governed by the common law rule. The above is the rule under the common law of England.

It has been held, however, that under the common law in this country every person is entitled to free access and public inspection of public records without any showing of special interest and that in the absence of a statute (limiting such right) public records are open to inspection by the public and that all persons have a right to resort to public records irrespective of motive or interest or even to satisfy idle curiosity, but that if such records are not strictly public records, although they may relate to public business, only persons directly interested in such records should be permitted to inspect them and then only when such inspection is not detrimental to the public welfare or interest.

It is clear from the foregoing statements that the whole question we are concerned with hinges upon whether these records are really public records, quasi public records, or private records.

So far as I have been able to discover the only section in our Code which deals with the right to inspect records of any kind is Section 3388 which is applicable only to records of the Clerks' Offices of our several courts of record.

I can find no case that has been decided on this subject in Virginia and I have found only two cases reported which deal in any way with the right to inspect records of any kind -

(1) In Clay v. Ballard, 87 Va. 787, our Supreme Court held that mandamus will lie to compel a registrar to allow any citizen to inspect and to make copies of the registration books since they are of a public nature and every citizen has an interest in them.

(2) In Greaves, and others v. Terry, &c., 93 Va. 491, it was held that so much of the record of proceedings of electoral boards as relates to the appointment and removal of judges and commissioners of election and registrars or the ordering of a new registration, is a public record open to inspection by any citizen or voter in the county where the record is kept. But so much of said records as relate to the preparation and printing of the official ballots prescribed by law, certification of the same, and their distribution to the judges of election is not a public record that is open to the inspection of anyone other than the officers of the county to whom the duties of preparing, printing, certifying and distributing ballots are confined by law.

To go into this question thoroughly will require many hours of careful study - many more than have been at my disposal since the last meeting of this Board, and from the investigation which I have already been able to make I am convinced that such a thorough study will result only in the enumeration of a great number of different records which have been held by one court or another to be public and therefore open to inspection, together with a similar list of those records which have been held to be quasi public or private, and not subject to general inspection.

I seriously doubt whether the most thorough investigation will turn up any line of cases or even any single case which will deal with the records of a corporation having the character of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which, as you know, under the provisions of Section 806 of our Code has been held by our Supreme Court in Phillips v. the University, 97 Va. 472, to be a public corporation governed and controlled by the State and subject in all respects to the control of the General Assembly.

It is my opinion that should this question be submitted to our Courts, and only by such a course can anything more than a theoretical opinion be obtained, it would be held that the minutes of these meetings, while not public records in the sense that any citizen might inspect them for the gratification of mere curiosity, are in a sense quasi public records and may be inspected by anyone having a legitimate interest therein where the necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper.

Section 811 of our Code in defining the duties of this Board contains the provision that this Board may "in respect to the government and management of the University make such regulations as they may deem expedient not being contrary to law".

There is certainly no provision of our organic law definitely declaring these records to be public records and therefore if this Board should adopt a regulation to the effect that its minutes were not public records, such a resolution would not be contrary to anything in our Code. Whether it would be contrary to any rule of common law would, in my opinion, be the subject of serious controversy upon the subject of whether we are to be governed by the common law of England or the common law of this country, if in a case such as this we really have developed any common law rule.

My conclusion therefore is that until our Legislature passes an act clarifying the situation or until the question is decided by our Supreme Court of Appeals, any opinion that may be given by counsel will be merely speculative and of little real value. I believe that it is within the scope of your authority under Section 811 of our Code to adopt a regulation or rule declaring that the minutes of your meetings are public records and may be inspected by anyone desiring to see them and under proper supervision. Or, you may adopt a regulation declaring that your minutes are not public records in the full sense of that term and by this regulation you may define the extent to which access by the public may be had to the minutes and you may set up such rules as you may think proper to safeguard such inspection. The wisdom or unwisdom of either of these courses is a matter for determination by this Board and not one for expression of opinion by counsel.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Rector appoint a committee for the purpose of studying the question of whether the minutes of meetings of the Board of Visitors are public or quasi public, this committee to recommend action to the Board.

In accordance with the foregoing resolution, the Rector appointed as a committee Mr. Gay, Chairman; Messrs. Garnett and Black.

Visitor: Mr. Perkins.

A letter was presented from Mr. Leonard B. Abbey of Decatur, Georgia, attorney for an unnamed client.

I have been engaged to re-draft the will of a client who wishes to name the University of Virginia as a legates for the purpose of establishing a scholarship fund. For your information, there is quoted below a clause from my client's present will, which is to be rewritten to be more specific and to eliminate flaws. The quotation will, however, convey to you the intent.

"All the rest and residue of my estate I give, devise and bequeath to the University of Virginia and direct that this residue be invested in compliance with the laws of the State of Virginia for the establishment of a scholarship fund to be known as the ----- ----- ----- Scholarship Fund. The income derived from this fund I direct be paid in equal amounts monthly to not more than two female students in the Department of Medicine. Each such student shall declare under oath that she will devote her professional life solely to the specialty of public health after graduation from medical school and completion of internship. The income from said fund shall not be available to any student in the Department of Medicine for more than four scholarship years. Furthermore, should more than two female students apply for such scholarships the awards shall be made after taking into consideration the financial need of the several applicants and their comparative attainments in the premedical collegiate course".

The purpose of this letter is to request advice from the University in order that the clause might be properly drafted, in such a manner that it will be acceptable and beneficial to the University as well as meeting the wishes of the client. For this purpose, I wish to inquire as follows:

1\. What is the exact legal name of the University?

2\. By whom and in what manner should the students be selected, and should the phrase "students in the Department of Medicine", be used, inasmuch as that phrase implies one who is already enrolled?

3\. Do you believe that the oath specified would be contrary to public policy in Virginia, or do you have a form already in use which would accomplish a similar commitment?

4\. If the income from the legacy should develop to be more, or less, than enough for two students, what limitation would you suggest as to the amount per student; or would you recommend leaving that matter to the discretion of the University?

Any other information or advice which you will be kind enough to furnish in order that this bequest might be so prepared as to accomplish the ultimate purpose desired will be appreciated.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that it is the sense of this Board that the University should not accept gifts with such restrictions.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. George E. Bokinsky, Assistant Administrator of the Hospital, be and he is hereby authorized to sign reports to the Alcohol Tax Unit in the absence of Dr. C. S. Lentz, Hospital Administrator, from the University.

The President reported that proposals for the leasing of the Milton Airport had been received from Mr. Richard F. Holladay and from Mr. W. R. Franke. He reported also that Prof. Frederick T. Morse had recommended the continuance of Mr. Franke's lease, believing the University Engineering training can better be served under the present lease. The following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the question of the leasing of Milton Airport be left to the discretion of the President; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that it is the sense of this Board that if at all possible this property be disposed of as soon as possible.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. David K. E. Bruce be and he is hereby appointed a member of the Advisory Committee of the McGregor Library to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Alexander W. Weddell.

The President presented a communication from Mr. W. S. Hildreth concerning changes made in the part of the building leased to The Peoples National Bank, University Branch. Action on this communication was deferred.

The Board unanimously resolved to accept the invitation of Mary Washington College to hold the April meeting of the Board at Mary Washington College, the date and time of this meeting to be Saturday, April 10, at 11:00 a.m.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the President be authorized to accept the proposal of the Army to establish a transportation unit at the University of Virginia in the School of Economics; with the proviso that the President report to the Board on the details of the unit when these details have been worked out with the Army.

A resolution transferring securities to Hamac and Company was adopted.

At a meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, held 12 March 1948, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, and Vincent Shea, Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized in the name and on behalf of the University of Virginia to sell, assign, and transfer the following stocks and bonds standing in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia unto Hamac and Company, namely:

And be it further -

RESOLVED that the aforementioned companies and/or corporations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars, their successors or assigns, be and they are hereby authorized to treat Hamac and Company as the holder in fact and owner of said shares and certificates representing the same for any and all purposes including but not limited to the payment or issuing of dividends and interest payments in money or stock to said Hamac and Company; and be it further -

RESOLVED, that the aforementioned companies and/or corporations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars, and their respective successors and assigns, be and they are hereby absolved from any and all responsibility in following the said shares and certificates as being the property of the University of Virginia.

Given under my hand this 12th day of March 1948.

The problem of the design and location of a University Press building was referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.

A report was made by the Board of Visitors Executive Committee of the Development Fund. $159,500. has been expended to date; unrestricted gifts received to date have been $292,860. A budget for the period March 20 through July 3, 1948 amounting to $82,665. was submitted and the following motion was passed:

BE IT RESOLVED that the budget for the Development Fund for the period March 20, 1948 through July 3, 1948, in the amount of $82,665.00, be and is hereby approved.

The Rector moved that the deficit of $1,298.90 in the inaugural fund be made up; and that appropriation be made of a sum (estimated at $3,000.00) sufficient to pay the publication costs of a booklet commemorating the occasion. The motion was passed.

At this time Mr. Stettinius excused himself from the meeting and Mr. Garnett was elected Rector pro tem.

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Director of the Department of Athletics, made a verbal report based upon an article he has prepared for the March issue of the "Alumni News."

After adjournment for lunch the meeting was resumed with the Rector presiding. The discussion of the NCAA regulations was continued, Captain Pritchett visitor. After a thorough discussion of these regulations, the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector be directed to appoint a committee of the Board to meet with the President and Captain Pritchett to study the National Collegiate Athletic Association regulations; and that this committee be empowered to act in the name of the Board in directing appropriate action to be taken by the President with respect to these regulations.

In accordance with the foregoing resolution, the Rector appointed as the committee: Mr. Carrington, Chairman; Messrs. Anderson and Gay.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.

1937

$ 5.00

1938

20.00

1939

15.00

1940

15.00

1941

5.00

1943

20.00

1944

15.00

1945

10.00

1946

10.00

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held February 13, 1948, I am advised that -

"The President was requested by the Board to refer to Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, for an opinion, the question of what agency of the University should receive the Minor bequest".

This action of the Board arises out of the following fact - that by his will, dated January 31, 1945, and recently admitted to probate by the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, the late Benjamin F. Minor, of Washington, D. C., made the following bequest -

"To the University of Virginia, of Charlottesville, Virginia, as a part of its Alumni Fund, the sum of Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00)."

I do not think there is any legal question involved in this situation, the actual question presented being whether Mr. Minor intended to give this money to -

(1) The University of Virginia Alumni Fund

(2) The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, or

(3) The University of Virginia Development Fund

We have not had in our files a copy of Mr. Minor's will but I am reliably advised that the quotation above given contains the only reference made in the will to this bequest.

In a letter written by Mr. William H. White, Jr., Treasurer of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, to President Darden, on January 2, 1948, he quotes as follows from a letter dated December 31, 1947, written to him by the Vice-President and Trust Officer of National Savings and Trust Company of Washington, D. C., one of the Executors of Mr. Minor's estate -

"Mrs. Minor advises me that as far back as 1937 Mr. Minor made yearly contributions to the Alumni Fund and also that in his wills back to 1939 this bequest to the University is included."

I am advised by Mr. J. Malcolm Luck, Alumni Secretary, that during his lifetime Mr. Minor made the following contributions to the University of Virginia Alumni Fund -

It is perfectly clear to me, therefore, that when Mr. Minor said this bequest was to be used by the University "as a part of its Alumni Fund", he meant the University of Virginia Alumni Fund, and did not intend it to go either to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund or to the Development Fund. He certainly did not intend it for the Development Fund for his will was executed January 31, 1945, before that fund was started.

It is my opinion, therefore, that this Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00), which I understand has been paid to the University by Mr. Minor's Executors, should be turned over to the University Alumni Fund, through its Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. J. Malcolm Luck.

If I am correct in my reasoning, and I think I am, this is a bequest to a definite instrumentality or agency of the University of Virginia. The larger question of whether the Board of Visitors of the University has the right to delegate to any department, agency or instrumentality the handling and management of funds given to - "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia" is not here involved. It cannot be questioned that anyone has the right to give money either to the Alumni Board of Trustees or to the University Alumni Fund, or to any other agency, corporation or individual, natural or artificial, for the use of the University of Virginia. The present case, in my opinion, deals with a gift made directly for the specific use of the Alumni Fund and it is perfectly proper for the Board to turn the money over to the officers of that Fund.

In my opinion, it is only where the gift is made to the "University of Virginia", or to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", without designation as to the agency or instrumentality for whose use it is intended, that any question can arise as to the right of the Board of Visitors to delegate the management of such a fund.

I have been asked for an opinion as to whether or not the minutes of meetings of the Board of Visitors of the University are public documents. Since the minutes of the Board may be more accurately defined as "records", I will use the latter term in the following discussion.

In Greenleaf on Evidence, the writer in discussing "Writings", "Documents" and "Records", divides them into two classes - public and private, public writings being again subdivided into those which are public in every sense and those which he terms quasi public records. Records which are public in every sense consist of the acts of public functionaries in the legislative, judicial and executive departments of the government, while quasi public records are those which partake both of a public and private character and are treated as the one or the other according to the relation in which the applicant for inspection stands to them. Thus the books of a corporation are public with respect to its members but private with respect to strangers.

A public record has been defined as one required by law to be kept or necessary to be kept in the discharge of a duty imposed by law or directed by law to serve as a memorial and evidence of something written, said or done. 53 C.J. 604.

At common law a person may inspect public records in which he has an interest or make copies or memoranda thereof where a necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper and where the disclosure would not be detrimental to the public interest; but the gratification of mere curiosity or motives merely speculative, or the creation of scandal will not entitle a person to inspection or to make copies or memoranda. It has also been held that the right of the public generally to inspect public records must be based upon some statutory authority and that in the absence of a statute the right to inspect public records is governed by the common law rule. The above is the rule under the common law of England.

It has been held, however, that under the common law in this country every person is entitled to free access and public inspection of public records without any showing of special interest and that in the absence of a statute (limiting such right) public records are open to inspection by the public and that all persons have a right to resort to public records irrespective of motive or interest or even to satisfy idle curiosity, but that if such records are not strictly public records, although they may relate to public business, only persons directly interested in such records should be permitted to inspect them and then only when such inspection is not detrimental to the public welfare or interest.

It is clear from the foregoing statements that the whole question we are concerned with hinges upon whether these records are really public records, quasi public records, or private records.

So far as I have been able to discover the only section in our Code which deals with the right to inspect records of any kind is Section 3388 which is applicable only to records of the Clerks' Offices of our several courts of record.

I can find no case that has been decided on this subject in Virginia and I have found only two cases reported which deal in any way with the right to inspect records of any kind -

(1) In Clay v. Ballard, 87 Va. 787, our Supreme Court held that mandamus will lie to compel a registrar to allow any citizen to inspect and to make copies of the registration books since they are of a public nature and every citizen has an interest in them.

(2) In Greaves, and others v. Terry, &c., 93 Va. 491, it was held that so much of the record of proceedings of electoral boards as relates to the appointment and removal of judges and commissioners of election and registrars or the ordering of a new registration, is a public record open to inspection by any citizen or voter in the county where the record is kept. But so much of said records as relate to the preparation and printing of the official ballots prescribed by law, certification of the same, and their distribution to the judges of election is not a public record that is open to the inspection of anyone other than the officers of the county to whom the duties of preparing, printing, certifying and distributing ballots are confined by law.

To go into this question thoroughly will require many hours of careful study - many more than have been at my disposal since the last meeting of this Board, and from the investigation which I have already been able to make I am convinced that such a thorough study will result only in the enumeration of a great number of different records which have been held by one court or another to be public and therefore open to inspection, together with a similar list of those records which have been held to be quasi public or private, and not subject to general inspection.

I seriously doubt whether the most thorough investigation will turn up any line of cases or even any single case which will deal with the records of a corporation having the character of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which, as you know, under the provisions of Section 806 of our Code has been held by our Supreme Court in Phillips v. the University, 97 Va. 472, to be a public corporation governed and controlled by the State and subject in all respects to the control of the General Assembly.

It is my opinion that should this question be submitted to our Courts, and only by such a course can anything more than a theoretical opinion be obtained, it would be held that the minutes of these meetings, while not public records in the sense that any citizen might inspect them for the gratification of mere curiosity, are in a sense quasi public records and may be inspected by anyone having a legitimate interest therein where the necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper.

Section 811 of our Code in defining the duties of this Board contains the provision that this Board may "in respect to the government and management of the University make such regulations as they may deem expedient not being contrary to law".

There is certainly no provision of our organic law definitely declaring these records to be public records and therefore if this Board should adopt a regulation to the effect that its minutes were not public records, such a resolution would not be contrary to anything in our Code. Whether it would be contrary to any rule of common law would, in my opinion, be the subject of serious controversy upon the subject of whether we are to be governed by the common law of England or the common law of this country, if in a case such as this we really have developed any common law rule.

My conclusion therefore is that until our Legislature passes an act clarifying the situation or until the question is decided by our Supreme Court of Appeals, any opinion that may be given by counsel will be merely speculative and of little real value. I believe that it is within the scope of your authority under Section 811 of our Code to adopt a regulation or rule declaring that the minutes of your meetings are public records and may be inspected by anyone desiring to see them and under proper supervision. Or, you may adopt a regulation declaring that your minutes are not public records in the full sense of that term and by this regulation you may define the extent to which access by the public may be had to the minutes and you may set up such rules as you may think proper to safeguard such inspection. The wisdom or unwisdom of either of these courses is a matter for determination by this Board and not one for expression of opinion by counsel.

I have been engaged to re-draft the will of a client who wishes to name the University of Virginia as a legates for the purpose of establishing a scholarship fund. For your information, there is quoted below a clause from my client's present will, which is to be rewritten to be more specific and to eliminate flaws. The quotation will, however, convey to you the intent.

"All the rest and residue of my estate I give, devise and bequeath to the University of Virginia and direct that this residue be invested in compliance with the laws of the State of Virginia for the establishment of a scholarship fund to be known as the ----- ----- ----- Scholarship Fund. The income derived from this fund I direct be paid in equal amounts monthly to not more than two female students in the Department of Medicine. Each such student shall declare under oath that she will devote her professional life solely to the specialty of public health after graduation from medical school and completion of internship. The income from said fund shall not be available to any student in the Department of Medicine for more than four scholarship years. Furthermore, should more than two female students apply for such scholarships the awards shall be made after taking into consideration the financial need of the several applicants and their comparative attainments in the premedical collegiate course".

The purpose of this letter is to request advice from the University in order that the clause might be properly drafted, in such a manner that it will be acceptable and beneficial to the University as well as meeting the wishes of the client. For this purpose, I wish to inquire as follows:

1\. What is the exact legal name of the University?

2\. By whom and in what manner should the students be selected, and should the phrase "students in the Department of Medicine", be used, inasmuch as that phrase implies one who is already enrolled?

3\. Do you believe that the oath specified would be contrary to public policy in Virginia, or do you have a form already in use which would accomplish a similar commitment?

4\. If the income from the legacy should develop to be more, or less, than enough for two students, what limitation would you suggest as to the amount per student; or would you recommend leaving that matter to the discretion of the University?

Any other information or advice which you will be kind enough to furnish in order that this bequest might be so prepared as to accomplish the ultimate purpose desired will be appreciated.

1937

$ 5.00

1938

20.00

1939

15.00

1940

15.00

1941

5.00

1943

20.00

1944

15.00

1945

10.00

1946

10.00

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held February 13, 1948, I am advised that -

"The President was requested by the Board to refer to Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, for an opinion, the question of what agency of the University should receive the Minor bequest".

This action of the Board arises out of the following fact - that by his will, dated January 31, 1945, and recently admitted to probate by the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, the late Benjamin F. Minor, of Washington, D. C., made the following bequest -

"To the University of Virginia, of Charlottesville, Virginia, as a part of its Alumni Fund, the sum of Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00)."

I do not think there is any legal question involved in this situation, the actual question presented being whether Mr. Minor intended to give this money to -

(1) The University of Virginia Alumni Fund

(2) The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, or

(3) The University of Virginia Development Fund

We have not had in our files a copy of Mr. Minor's will but I am reliably advised that the quotation above given contains the only reference made in the will to this bequest.

In a letter written by Mr. William H. White, Jr., Treasurer of the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, to President Darden, on January 2, 1948, he quotes as follows from a letter dated December 31, 1947, written to him by the Vice-President and Trust Officer of National Savings and Trust Company of Washington, D. C., one of the Executors of Mr. Minor's estate -

"Mrs. Minor advises me that as far back as 1937 Mr. Minor made yearly contributions to the Alumni Fund and also that in his wills back to 1939 this bequest to the University is included."

I am advised by Mr. J. Malcolm Luck, Alumni Secretary, that during his lifetime Mr. Minor made the following contributions to the University of Virginia Alumni Fund -

It is perfectly clear to me, therefore, that when Mr. Minor said this bequest was to be used by the University "as a part of its Alumni Fund", he meant the University of Virginia Alumni Fund, and did not intend it to go either to the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund or to the Development Fund. He certainly did not intend it for the Development Fund for his will was executed January 31, 1945, before that fund was started.

It is my opinion, therefore, that this Two Thousand Dollars, ($2,000.00), which I understand has been paid to the University by Mr. Minor's Executors, should be turned over to the University Alumni Fund, through its Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. J. Malcolm Luck.

If I am correct in my reasoning, and I think I am, this is a bequest to a definite instrumentality or agency of the University of Virginia. The larger question of whether the Board of Visitors of the University has the right to delegate to any department, agency or instrumentality the handling and management of funds given to - "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia" is not here involved. It cannot be questioned that anyone has the right to give money either to the Alumni Board of Trustees or to the University Alumni Fund, or to any other agency, corporation or individual, natural or artificial, for the use of the University of Virginia. The present case, in my opinion, deals with a gift made directly for the specific use of the Alumni Fund and it is perfectly proper for the Board to turn the money over to the officers of that Fund.

In my opinion, it is only where the gift is made to the "University of Virginia", or to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", without designation as to the agency or instrumentality for whose use it is intended, that any question can arise as to the right of the Board of Visitors to delegate the management of such a fund.

I have been asked for an opinion as to whether or not the minutes of meetings of the Board of Visitors of the University are public documents. Since the minutes of the Board may be more accurately defined as "records", I will use the latter term in the following discussion.

In Greenleaf on Evidence, the writer in discussing "Writings", "Documents" and "Records", divides them into two classes - public and private, public writings being again subdivided into those which are public in every sense and those which he terms quasi public records. Records which are public in every sense consist of the acts of public functionaries in the legislative, judicial and executive departments of the government, while quasi public records are those which partake both of a public and private character and are treated as the one or the other according to the relation in which the applicant for inspection stands to them. Thus the books of a corporation are public with respect to its members but private with respect to strangers.

A public record has been defined as one required by law to be kept or necessary to be kept in the discharge of a duty imposed by law or directed by law to serve as a memorial and evidence of something written, said or done. 53 C.J. 604.

At common law a person may inspect public records in which he has an interest or make copies or memoranda thereof where a necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper and where the disclosure would not be detrimental to the public interest; but the gratification of mere curiosity or motives merely speculative, or the creation of scandal will not entitle a person to inspection or to make copies or memoranda. It has also been held that the right of the public generally to inspect public records must be based upon some statutory authority and that in the absence of a statute the right to inspect public records is governed by the common law rule. The above is the rule under the common law of England.

It has been held, however, that under the common law in this country every person is entitled to free access and public inspection of public records without any showing of special interest and that in the absence of a statute (limiting such right) public records are open to inspection by the public and that all persons have a right to resort to public records irrespective of motive or interest or even to satisfy idle curiosity, but that if such records are not strictly public records, although they may relate to public business, only persons directly interested in such records should be permitted to inspect them and then only when such inspection is not detrimental to the public welfare or interest.

It is clear from the foregoing statements that the whole question we are concerned with hinges upon whether these records are really public records, quasi public records, or private records.

So far as I have been able to discover the only section in our Code which deals with the right to inspect records of any kind is Section 3388 which is applicable only to records of the Clerks' Offices of our several courts of record.

I can find no case that has been decided on this subject in Virginia and I have found only two cases reported which deal in any way with the right to inspect records of any kind -

(1) In Clay v. Ballard, 87 Va. 787, our Supreme Court held that mandamus will lie to compel a registrar to allow any citizen to inspect and to make copies of the registration books since they are of a public nature and every citizen has an interest in them.

(2) In Greaves, and others v. Terry, &c., 93 Va. 491, it was held that so much of the record of proceedings of electoral boards as relates to the appointment and removal of judges and commissioners of election and registrars or the ordering of a new registration, is a public record open to inspection by any citizen or voter in the county where the record is kept. But so much of said records as relate to the preparation and printing of the official ballots prescribed by law, certification of the same, and their distribution to the judges of election is not a public record that is open to the inspection of anyone other than the officers of the county to whom the duties of preparing, printing, certifying and distributing ballots are confined by law.

To go into this question thoroughly will require many hours of careful study - many more than have been at my disposal since the last meeting of this Board, and from the investigation which I have already been able to make I am convinced that such a thorough study will result only in the enumeration of a great number of different records which have been held by one court or another to be public and therefore open to inspection, together with a similar list of those records which have been held to be quasi public or private, and not subject to general inspection.

I seriously doubt whether the most thorough investigation will turn up any line of cases or even any single case which will deal with the records of a corporation having the character of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which, as you know, under the provisions of Section 806 of our Code has been held by our Supreme Court in Phillips v. the University, 97 Va. 472, to be a public corporation governed and controlled by the State and subject in all respects to the control of the General Assembly.

It is my opinion that should this question be submitted to our Courts, and only by such a course can anything more than a theoretical opinion be obtained, it would be held that the minutes of these meetings, while not public records in the sense that any citizen might inspect them for the gratification of mere curiosity, are in a sense quasi public records and may be inspected by anyone having a legitimate interest therein where the necessity for such inspection is shown and the purpose does not seem to be improper.

Section 811 of our Code in defining the duties of this Board contains the provision that this Board may "in respect to the government and management of the University make such regulations as they may deem expedient not being contrary to law".

There is certainly no provision of our organic law definitely declaring these records to be public records and therefore if this Board should adopt a regulation to the effect that its minutes were not public records, such a resolution would not be contrary to anything in our Code. Whether it would be contrary to any rule of common law would, in my opinion, be the subject of serious controversy upon the subject of whether we are to be governed by the common law of England or the common law of this country, if in a case such as this we really have developed any common law rule.

My conclusion therefore is that until our Legislature passes an act clarifying the situation or until the question is decided by our Supreme Court of Appeals, any opinion that may be given by counsel will be merely speculative and of little real value. I believe that it is within the scope of your authority under Section 811 of our Code to adopt a regulation or rule declaring that the minutes of your meetings are public records and may be inspected by anyone desiring to see them and under proper supervision. Or, you may adopt a regulation declaring that your minutes are not public records in the full sense of that term and by this regulation you may define the extent to which access by the public may be had to the minutes and you may set up such rules as you may think proper to safeguard such inspection. The wisdom or unwisdom of either of these courses is a matter for determination by this Board and not one for expression of opinion by counsel.

I have been engaged to re-draft the will of a client who wishes to name the University of Virginia as a legates for the purpose of establishing a scholarship fund. For your information, there is quoted below a clause from my client's present will, which is to be rewritten to be more specific and to eliminate flaws. The quotation will, however, convey to you the intent.

"All the rest and residue of my estate I give, devise and bequeath to the University of Virginia and direct that this residue be invested in compliance with the laws of the State of Virginia for the establishment of a scholarship fund to be known as the ----- ----- ----- Scholarship Fund. The income derived from this fund I direct be paid in equal amounts monthly to not more than two female students in the Department of Medicine. Each such student shall declare under oath that she will devote her professional life solely to the specialty of public health after graduation from medical school and completion of internship. The income from said fund shall not be available to any student in the Department of Medicine for more than four scholarship years. Furthermore, should more than two female students apply for such scholarships the awards shall be made after taking into consideration the financial need of the several applicants and their comparative attainments in the premedical collegiate course".

The purpose of this letter is to request advice from the University in order that the clause might be properly drafted, in such a manner that it will be acceptable and beneficial to the University as well as meeting the wishes of the client. For this purpose, I wish to inquire as follows:

1\. What is the exact legal name of the University?

2\. By whom and in what manner should the students be selected, and should the phrase "students in the Department of Medicine", be used, inasmuch as that phrase implies one who is already enrolled?

3\. Do you believe that the oath specified would be contrary to public policy in Virginia, or do you have a form already in use which would accomplish a similar commitment?

4\. If the income from the legacy should develop to be more, or less, than enough for two students, what limitation would you suggest as to the amount per student; or would you recommend leaving that matter to the discretion of the University?

Any other information or advice which you will be kind enough to furnish in order that this bequest might be so prepared as to accomplish the ultimate purpose desired will be appreciated.
