---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1949'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
RESIGNATION OF EDWARD R. STETTINIUS, JR.MRS. HERBERT MCKELDEN SMITH APPOINTED VISITORGIFTSRESIGNATIONSPROMOTIONSELECTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCEREPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DIVERSIFICATION OF ASSETS (AT MARKET VALUES) AS OF MARCH 25, 1949CITY SEWER LINEUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSPROPOSED DEVELOPMENT FUND CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATIONCERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DEVELOPMENT FUNDI.II.III.IV.V.VI.TrusteesOfficersVII.VIII.IX.X.XI.BUILDING PLAN FOR UNIVERSITYREPORT OF ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From former residents of the late Dr. Tiffany J. Williams, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, to be added to the Tiffany J. Williams Memorial Lecture Fund

$300.00

From Mrs. E. Walton Brown, to be used for research in hematology under Dr. Byrd S. Leavell

500.00

Bonds - General

23.3%

U. S. Government

25.2%

48.5%

Preferred Stocks

20.1

Common Stocks

31.3

Principal Cash

.1

100.0%

Utilities

$1,225,383.75

24.3%

Railroads

401,121.25

8.0

Chemical and Drug

371,242.88

7.3

Bank, Insurance & Finance

320,043.50

6.3

Tobacco

296,192.75

5.9

Stores

140,300.00

2.8

Oil

139,032.50

2.8

Electrical Equipment

84,224.13

1.7

Food & Food Products

72,075.00

1.4

Container

71,837.50

1.4

Metals & Mining (Non Ferrous)

71,570.50

1.4

Credit Reporting

69,933.50

1.4

Auto and Accessories

68,536.88

1.4

Steel

60,913.13

1.2

Machinery and Equipment

38,585.50

.8

Motion Picture

33,312.50

.8

Manufacturing (Abrasives, etc.)

26,125.00

.5

Textiles (Rayon)

25,562.50

.5

Fertilizer

11,687.50

.2

Miscellaneous

10,802.00

.2

Sugar

6,787.50

.1

Soap

6,262.50

.1

U. S. Savings "G" Bonds

576,500.00

11.4

U. S. Treasury Bonds

696,461.22

13.8

Municipal & Quasi-Govt. Bonds

209,487.07

4.2

Principal Cash

6,353.73

.1

$5,040,434.29

100.0%

Name

Residence

Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, University of Virginia (ex officio)

University, Virginia

C. Francis Cocke

Roanoke, Virginia

Charles A. Ferguson

Newport News, Virginia

Joseph M. Hartfield

New York, N. Y.

William S. Hildreth

Charlottesville, Virginia

Arthur J. Morris

New York, N. Y.

Buford Scott

Richmond, Virginia

J. Brockenbrough Woodward

Newport News, Virginia

Office

Name

Residence & Post Office

President

Buford Scott

Richmond, Virginia

Secretary

Thos. M. Carruthers

Albemarle County, University Station, Charlottesville, Virginia

Treasurer

William S. Hildreth

Charlottesville, Virginia

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Black, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Smith, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Gravatt and Miller.

Mr. Garnett was elected Rector pro tempore.

The minutes of the meeting of March 11, 1949, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

Mr. Black presented the following resolution concerning Edward Rielley Stettinius, Jr., who resigned as Rector and as a Visitor of the University on March 16, 1949. Mr. Black prepared the resolution at the request of the Board, and it was unanimously adopted. The Board requested that a copy of the resolution, certified by the Secretary, be forwarded to Mr. Stettinius by Mr. Black.

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, in meeting assembled, this 8th day of April, 1949.

THAT WHEREAS, this Board has with sorrow learned of the illness of Edward R. Stettinius, and of his recent resignation as Rector of this Board,

NOW, THEREFORE, it desires to record, by means of this resolution, the feeling of regret and dismay of each member of the Board, on account of the loss to the Board, occasioned by the Rector's illness and resignation.

This Board further desires to record the very deep appreciation of each member for the valuable services rendered to the Board, and to the University of Virginia, by Edward R. Stettinius.

It desires further to express its sympathetic understanding of the quality of those services, in that they consisted not only of a generous expenditure of energy, but also of the contribution of a spirit and direction to the efforts of the Board.

Mrs. Herbert McKelden Smith, appointed by the Governor on April 5, 1949 to succeed Mrs. A. O. Calcott, resigned, for the term ending February 28, 1950, was present for the meeting. Since Mrs. Smith had not had an opportunity to appear before the Clerk of the Court and qualify for the office, she did not vote in the matters considered at this meeting.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts:

The following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED that the resignation of Miss Mildred Hoyt, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective at the end of the session of 1948-49. We wish for her the highest success in her new undertaking.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Marion Lawrence White, Jr., Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective June 30, 1949. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following promotions were approved:

Dr. H. Rowland Pearsall from Instructor in Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective April 1, 1949, his salary to be paid from special funds.

Dr. Francis Dunnington Smith from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, as of September 1, 1946. This promotion was recommended by Dean Jordan on July 30, 1946, and approved by President Newcomb, but it was inadvertently omitted from the docket of September, 1946. Dr. Smith is paid from special funds, and his name has been carried in the medical catalogue as Assistant Professor since 1946.

The following elections were approved:

Mr. David C. Yalden-Thomson as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to begin in September, 1949, at a session salary of $3,510.

Dr. Armistead Page Booker, as Instructor in Pediatrics for one year, effective July 1, 1949, at a salary of $3,600, $3,000 to be charged to the Pediatric Well-Child Fund and $600 to be paid by the Children's Service Center.

Mr. John Anthony Walker, Assistant Professor of Drama, granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1949-50 in order to work towards the Ph. D. degree.

Visitors: Messrs. L. B. Gunn and J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, Richmond.

Mr. Gunn pointed out that the over-all yield in the Consolidated Endowment Fund averaged 4.02% for the year ending January 25, 1949. He added that this was the first time since the present trustees commenced management of the fund that the yield had exceeded 4%. During the past year the general policy of the trustees has been to dispose of securities which had returned a high yield during the war but which it was felt were not now attractive for permanent investment. The present distribution of securities is shown below.

The Board expressed approval of the manner in which the Finance Committee and the trustees of the Consolidated Endowment Fund have managed the investment of this fund during the past year, and tendered their thanks to Messrs. Gunn and Wilkinson for being present at this meeting.

Visitor: Mr. W. Allan Perkins.

The President stated that the City of Charlottesville had found that the location of the sewer line which is now located on the land of the University, on one of the Athletic Fields of the University, between Route 250 and the right of way of the C. & O. Railway, is unsatisfactory. And the City desires to be given an easement for a new 15-inch sanitary sewer which will run across another portion of said field.

The President further reported that he is advised by Mr. Hartman that Capt. Pritchett is agreeable to the construction provided the work can be done on April 14th, 15th, and 16th, and a deed was presented to the meeting, with plat attached, showing the exact location of the proposed easement which deed has been approved by the Attorney for the University. The location as shown upon said plat has been approved by Mr. Hartman, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby instructed to execute said deed as approved by counsel, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, is instructed to affix the corporate seal of the University thereto, attest the same, and see that the deed is properly delivered to the City of Charlottesville and recorded in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, and that a copy of said deed, with plat attached, be retained in the files of the Bursar's Office.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that approval be and is hereby given to the charging off of schedules 52 and 53 of uncollectible hospital accounts recommended for cancellation by the Hospital Accounts Committee.

Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented for consideration of the Board a "Certificate of Incorporation of University of Virginia Development Fund," reading as follows:

This is to certify that we do hereby associate ourselves to establish a Corporation under and by virtue of Chapter 151 of the Code of Virginia of 1919 and Acts supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof, for the purposes and under the corporate name hereinafter set out, and to that end we do, by this our Certificate, set forth as follows:

The name of the Corporation shall be - "University of Virginia Development Fund".

The principal office of the Corporation shall be at the University of Virginia, in the County of Albemarle, and the Post Office address shall be - "University Station", Charlottesville, Virginia.

The purposes for which this Corporation is formed are as follows:

To solicit and receive, hold, manage and administer such gifts, grants, contributions and donations of money, securities and property or other thing or things of value and of any kind whatsoever, real, personal and mixed as may be given, transferred, conveyed, bequeathed, devised, assigned, or in any manner set over and delivered to said Corporation for the direct or indirect use or benefit or for advancement of the interests or purposes of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The maximum number of Trustees who are to manage the affairs of the Corporation shall be eight (8) and the minimum number of Trustees shall be five (5), and the President of the University of Virginia shall be at all times ex officio a Trustee of the Corporation; the seven Trustees named in this Certificate (other than the President of the University ex officio) shall serve for one to seven years, respectively. The term of office of each of the seven Trustees named in this Certificate of Incorporation shall be determined by lot and no Trustee who draws a term of more than three years shall be eligible for reelection, but any Trustee drawing a term of three years or less shall be eligible for nomination and reelection for one additional term of seven years regardless of the age limitation hereinafter set out. Any Trustee who has served a full term of seven years shall be ineligible for nomination or election to serve a second term. The Trustees named in this Certificate have been selected without especial reference to their respective ages but all other successor Trustees shall, at the time of election, be of the age of fifty-seven (57) years or less so that upon the expiration of their respective seven year terms of service no Trustee will have attained an age of more than sixty-five years. Vacancies upon said Board of Trustees, whether arising from expiration of terms as above set out, by death, or by resignation shall be filled as follows - All successor Trustees shall first be nominated by majority vote of the Trustees present and voting at any regular meeting of said Board, or at any special meeting of said Board called by the President or by any two members of said Board for the purpose of such nomination. For each vacancy said Trustees shall nominate three persons, and these nominations shall be certified by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees to the Active Members of this Corporation and from the names so certified said members shall elect a successor or successors to fill such vacancy or vacancies upon said Board of Trustees, such election to be held at any regular meeting of said members, or at any special meeting thereof called for the purpose of such election by any three active members. And if said Trustees fail to certify such nominations to said members within one year after any such vacancy occurs, said members shall upon their own motion proceed to elect a Trustee or Trustees to fill such vacancy or vacancies.

The active members of this Corporation shall consist of those persons who shall be the members of the Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. When any one or more of the members of this Board shall cease to be members thereof his or their successor or successors in office shall ipso facto become an active member or members of this Corporation in the place or places of that member or of those members who have ceased to be members of said Board of Managers. If, for any cause, said Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia should be abolished, then the persons who shall succeed to the performance of the substantial duties of such Board of Managers shall ipso facto become active members of this Corporation in the place and stead of the former members of said Board, which former members shall ipso facto cease to be such active members, it being intended that the active members of this Corporation shall consist of the persons who for the time being shall occupy such position or positions, the duties of which are exactly or substantially those performed at the time of the issuance of this charter by said Board of Managers of the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia. The voting power at any meeting or meetings of this Corporation shall be vested in such active members.

The names and residences of the Trustees who are to manage the affairs of the Corporation for the first year of its existence, together with the names, residences and post offices of the President, Secretary and Treasurer of the Corporation are as follows:

The period of duration of the Corporation shall be unlimited.

The amount of real estate to which its holdings at any time are to be limited shall be 100,000 acres.

This Corporation shall hold, manage and administer all such gifts, grants, contributions and donations and without regard to any legal or statutory restrictions otherwise applicable to Fiduciaries (whether pertaining to investments or to other matters) and subject only to limitations, conditions and restrictions placed upon any gift or gifts by the donor or donors thereof, said Corporation shall be clothed with and shall possess the following powers and discretions in addition to any conferred by law, that is to say -

1\. To retain as long as may be deemed advisable property of any kind or description that may be given to it, or acquired by it in the exercise of any power conferred upon it by general law or by this charter, even if such property should be or become unproductive of income, speculative in character or otherwise hazardous.

2\. To sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any such property or thing of value.

3\. To invest and reinvest in any securities or other property, real or personal, including corporate stocks of any classification.

4\. To hold any portion of its property in cash or uninvested for such period or periods as may be deemed advisable.

5\. To sell, encumber by deed of trust, or otherwise, or lease, alter, improve, erect buildings upon, or otherwise deal with or dispose of real property, or any interest of said Corporation therein.

6\. To consent to, dissent from or otherwise participate in any mergers, consolidations, reorganizations, or other changes affecting securities, and to delegate discretionary powers and pay any assessments or other charges in connection therewith.

7\. To exercise any options or rights of subscription, available in connection with any securities and to make any payments required thereon.

8\. To vote in person or by proxy upon any such securities and to delegate discretionary powers in relation thereto.

9\. To compromise, submit to arbitration, release or otherwise adjust any claims in favor of or against any funds, securities, properties, etc., estates or interest therein held by it, or to which said Corporation may be entitled, and to enter into any contract or other undertakings that may seem to it advisable and in furtherance of the purposes to which such funds, securities and properties are dedicated in its hands.

10\. To hold the securities and other properties in the name of said Corporation in the name or names of its nominee or nominees, or in bearer form.

11\. To employ agents and attorneys, investment counsel, to be selected either from the Faculty of the University or elsewhere, such investment counsel to be either individual or corporate, and to employ depositaries and to delegate to them discretionary powers, if need be, and to compensate them for their services.

12\. This Corporation shall faithfully apply all gifts and grants to the objects and purposes designated by the donor or grantor, but where no direction, limitation, restriction or condition is attached to such gifts or grants, it shall hold the same with full power to invest and reinvest, manage and administer as hereinbefore and hereinafter set out.

The income derived from any and all funds, securities, properties, interests and other things of value, tangible or intangible held by this Corporation shall, except as otherwise specifically required and provided by the donor or grantor thereof, be applied as follows:

(1) To the proper and necessary costs and expenses of this Corporation as fixed and determined by its Trustees and Officers.

(2) To the needs of the University of Virginia after full conference of the Trustees and Officers of this Corporation with the President, the Rector, and the Board of Visitors of the University and upon agreement with them as to the expenditure of all or of a part of such annual income, this Corporation shall pay the same or the part as to which agreement has been reached, to the Bursar of the University to be expended as agreed upon.

(3) All income, application of which has not been so agreed upon, shall be segregated and held intact until there shall be such joint agreement as to the use thereof.

(4) Said Trustees shall have full power and discretion to resolve whatever doubts, if any may arise, in allocating as between principal and income any receipts or disbursements, and their decision shall be binding upon all interested parties.

The Trustees above named, and their successors, are hereby given full power and authority to make and from time to time to alter By-Laws regulating the management and conduct of the Corporation's affairs in accordance with, and subject to provisions of Section 3878 of the Code of Virginia.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands this \_\_\_\_\_ day of April, 1949.

Mr. Gay felt the provisions of Section X., Paragraph (3), to be inexpedient and unwise, in that it puts the Board of Visitors in the position of actually controlling the investment of income derived from the Fund since, until they do agree with the Trustees of the Development Fund, no use can be made of such income.

Mr. Gay concurred in approval of the agreement in other respects, and with this exception the instrument was unanimously approved.

The President presented a revised Master Building Plan of the University which was tentatively approved. The location of the Student Union Building was changed to a site behind Peabody Hall on the side of the hill overlooking the Gymnasium and Route 29. The location selected for the proposed Physics Building was across the road from Cobb Chemical Laboratory on a line with Randall Hall, the front facade facing east.

The President stated that the Local Building Committee, composed of Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Mr. Frank E. Hartman, Dr. Bruce D. Reynolds, Dr. Frank A. Geldard, and Prof. Chapin Jones, had recommended that the space south of the McIntire Amphitheater, which was originally assigned to the Women's Dormitory, be reassigned for a Life Science Building. The communication from the Committee reads, in part, as follows:

" . . . after a review and study of the Topographical Map and Master Site Plan of the University, taking into consideration the fact that the Academic Building will be located South of Cabell Hall, the Physics Building East of the present Physics Building, and that the Chemistry Department will undoubtedly be anchored where it is for quite a period, we believe the most logical location is where the Women's Dormitory is now shown, primarily because of its proximity to the buildings noted above."

The Board approved the reallocation of the site south of the McIntire Amphitheater for a Life Science Building.

Possible new sites for the Women's Dormitory were discussed, and it was agreed to request the Alumni Board of Trustees to assign the Morea Property for this purpose.

Mr. Carrington, Chairman, stated that Captain Pritchett had sent a questionnaire to all former members of University of Virginia boxing teams. One of the questions asked read approximately as follows: "Knowing what you now know about boxing, would you wish to participate in intercollegiate boxing?" Every reply was in the affirmative. The Committee stated that it had weighed carefully the evidence presented, both for and against boxing, and that it did not feel there was sufficient evidence of harm to the individual participants to warrant the discontinuance of boxing at the University.

The Committee unaminously recommended that intercollegiate boxing be continued, but that every precaution be exercised to protect the participants.

Dr. Trout then pointed out that leading doctors in Virginia are opposed to intercollegiate boxing. He stated that the parents of nine University of Virginia boxers had written him to ask that he use his influence to persuade the Board to abolish boxing. Dr. Trout further stated that most colleges and universities have abolished boxing, and that the University of Virginia is the only college in the State which has continued it as an intercollegiate sport. Five past presidents of the Medical Society of Virginia have stated to Dr. Trout that it is their opinion that boxing should be abolished.

Mr. Black moved that further study be made of the matter by the Committee on Athletics, and that particular attention be given to the reasons why so many colleges have abolished this sport. The motion was passed.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.
