---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1949'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSLEAVE OF ABSENCECHANGE OF TITLEELECTIONSRESEARCH COUNCILGARDEN CLUBS OF VIRGINIACOLLEGIATE BOXINGDEVELOPMENT FUNDADDITION TO CABELL HALLBUILDING PROGRAMAddition to Interne's QuartersTABULATION OF BIDS ADDITION TO INTERNES' QUARTERS BIDS RECEIVED AT 11:00 A. M., E. S. T. JANUARY 13, 1949Chemical Engineering BuildingPrinting Plant and Geological SurveyUniversity ShopsHospital KitchenMen's DormitoriesMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSRESOLUTION RE: SERVICES OF DR. COMBSREPORT ON HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Robert H. Carter, for the purchase of microfilm by the Alderman Library

$195.00

From Mrs. W. R. Morton, to be added to the Morton Allergy Fund

250.00

From Mr. Jack F. Chrysler, to be added to the principal of the fund established in 1945 in memory of Mr. Chrysler's father, W. P. Chrsyler, for the purchase of books for the Engineering Library

1,500.00

From Oneida, Ltd., to be used for some special studies with silver under the direction of Dr. A. T. Gwathmey

1,500.00

Bidder

Base Bid

Alt.#1 Deduct

Alt.#2 Deduct

Alt.#2A Deduct

Harry D. Graham

$148,750

$1,865

$434

$5,785

Charlottesville, Va.

Bid Bond

Graham Brothers

Richmond, Va.

150,500

1,785

500

5,650

Bid Bond

J. F. Barbour & Son

Roanoke, Va.

153,994

1,374

299

6,611

Bid Bond

E. I. Leander

Charlottesville, Va.

159,333

1,342

309

5,717

Bid Bond

Conquest, Dunn & Potter

Charlottesville, Va.

163,911

1,600

826

5,917

Certified Check

Charlottesville Lumber Co.

Charlottesville, Va.

166,366

817

561

5,292

Bid Bond

Abbott & Ritchie

Richmond, Va.

169,902

1,331

546

5,737

Bid Bond

Doyle & Russell

Richmond, Va.

172,970

876

762

6,253

Bid Bond

Wise Contracting Co.

Richmond, Va.

177,842

1,037

600

5,397

Bid Bond

Thorington Const. Co.

Richmond, Va.

179,757

1,216

357

5,392

Bid Bond

The regular monthly meeting of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10 o'clock in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr. of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Carrington, Gravatt, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Barksdale, Black, Calcott, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Miller and Stettinius.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Anderson was elected Rector pro tempore

The minutes of the meeting of December 10, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

Upon recommendation of the President, the following leave of absence, change of title, and elections were approved.

Dr. Frank Arthur Geldard, Professor of Psychology, granted leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session of 1948-49 to work with the office of psychological research of the United States Air Forces.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Dr. John Howe Yoe, Professor of Chemistry, be changed to Professor of Chemistry and Director of the John Lee Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory.

Dr. Lyne Starling Reid as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology for the second semester of the session of 1948-49, at a session salary of $3,510, half of this amount to be paid for the semester.

Dr. Woodbury Perkins as Instructor in Medicine, without compensation from the University, as of September 16, 1948.

The President informed the Board that the University might be requested to establish research agencies to assist State departments in the administration of laws concerning health, welfare, and education. He stated that several heads of departments of the State government had discussed with him the possibility of the University's undertaking such a program.

The President reported that the Garden Clubs of Virginia will undertake the restoration of the west gardens of the University. No cost figures are available as yet, but the President estimates the cost at $40,000 to $50,000.

Visitor: Captain Norton G. Pritchett.

Dr. Trout presented for consideration of the Board the question of the abolition of collegiate boxing at the University. He stated that doctors throughout the state felt boxing should be abolished, and that he had been approached by several doctors who reported latent development of brain trouble resulting from college boxing. He pointed out that the University of Virginia is the only school in the state which has not discontinued boxing. The Board of Visitors of the University of Wisconsin discussed this matter last year at the instigation of a doctor who is a member of their Board, but the effort to ban it there was defeated. Dr. Trout stated also that the American Neurological Society has been discussing this problem, and that he personally felt very strongly that boxing should be abolished at the University.

The President suggested the appointment of a committee to study the matter, with leading brain surgeons included in the membership.

Captain Pritchett pointed out that at the time of the death of Johnny LaRowe, former boxing coach, the whole matter was investigated with Dr. Coleman as advisor. Changes were made in the rules increasing the weight of gloves from 8 ounces to 10 to 12 and providing that all fights were to be stopped if any cut appeared. Captain Pritchett said that last year Al York, Head Boxing Coach, sent a questionnaire to all living members of former University of Virginia boxing teams. Replies were received from sixty-eight per cent and all favored continuation of the sport.

Captain Pritchett stated that the Naval Academy has abolished inter-collegiate boxing but requires every student to participate in an intramural program of which boxing is an integral part. He pointed out that there are dangers in other sports almost as great as in boxing.

Mr. Anderson moved that the matter be referred to the Athletics Committee of the Board with Dr. Trout serving as medical advisor to the Committee, and the motion was passed

The President reported that he had discussed the permanent organization of the Development Fund with the Rector ever the telephone and that the Rector recommended that the reorganization of the Fund be completed by July 1, 1949, in which recommendation he concurred.

The President presented the following letter from Eggers and Higgins regarding the employment of consultants in engineering for preparation of the working drawings for the addition to Cabell Hall. The recommendations made by Eggers and Higgins were approved by the Board

In accordance with your letter of December 10th and in accordance with the existent contract, we hereby propose the following engineers for the structural and mechanical engineering services, respectively, in connection with the preparation of the working drawings for the Academic Building.

To prepare the plans and specifications for the structural elements, such as foundations, reinforced concrete, etc., we propose the name of Marshall and Congwer, 1147 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. We have investigated the record of this firm very carefully, as well as consulting with other architects and public officials in the District of Columbia, and we find that they are very highly commended for their work with public agencies and other private architects.

For the mechanical engineering services, consisting of heating and ventilating, plumbing, etc., we submit the name of Karsunky, Weller & Gooch, 2011 "K" Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. We know this firm very well as they have done some prominent work with us for the U.S. Navy. Their record is outstanding and they are well equipped with the personnel and experience for this job.

Both of these engineers have agreed to perform all the necessary engineering services, respectively, on the basis of the fee arrangement now in force in contracts between the Commonwealth of Virginia and other architects and engineers.

If these two proposed firms are satisfactory, we propose to enter into contracts with them, using our regular form of engineering contract and appending thereto, and making it a part of the contract, the existing contract between ourselves and the University of Virginia, dated July 23, 1948. When the contracts are executed, we will forward to you an executed copy of the agreement between both engineers and ourselves.

Both of these engineering firms are located in the District of Columbia, close to our Washington office where the work will be performed.

May we have your confirmation of this arrangement so we may proceed forthwith with the necessary work for the Academic Building.

President Darden called in Mr. Frank E. Hartman, Director of Buildings and Grounds, and requested that he go over the Bids received January 13, 1949 on the Addition to the Internes's Quarters. Mr. Hartman presented a copy of the bids received, as listed below.

Mr. Hartman then read a copy of a letter of January 14, 1949, addressed to President Darden, in which it was pointed out that the credit offered for Alternate #1, substitution of flat roof over pitched roof on the rear of the Addition, was $1,865.00 and that the credit offered for omission of the Elevator machine (elevator shaft and elevator doors to be installed now, with elevator to be installed when the money is available) was $5,785.00, and that if we accept these credits we would still require $17,910.00 to enable the contract to be let.

Mr. Hartman pointed out that the Art Commission had approved the plans with either a pitched or flat roof on the rear as satisfactory.

The plans, showing flat and pitched roof, were reviewed by the Board. The President recommended that the alternate plan for this building, with gabled roof in front and small flat section in the rear, be approved. After a full discussion Mr. Anderson moved that the flat roof be approved and the credit of $1,865.00 be accepted for this change. This was duly seconded and approved. Also the omission of the Elevator was approved with the credit of $5,785.00.

The Board then reviewed the sketches for the high Voltage Laboratory and Chemical Engineering Building, for which a conditional capital outlay of $250,000 has been made.

It was pointed out that Governor Tuck had released $10,000.00 for the preparation of the Plans and Specifications and such work as the University may elect to do, and that the balance of the appropriation would be made available when required.

After a study of the sketches and being assured that they incorporated the requirements of the Engineering Department, the Board approved the plans with the understanding that more complete plans would be presented at a later date.

The Board also reviewed the plans for the Printing Plant and the State Geological Survey Building which had been changed from a single 2-story building, housing both of these units, to two 1-story buildings; the Printing Plant located South of the Engineering Building on the site of the proposed 2-story building, and the Geological Survey Building about five hundred feet West of the University Cemetery.

After a review of the revised plans for the Printing Plant, these plans were approved.

In connection with the Building for the State Geological Survey, President Darden pointed out that this was an outlay to be paid for by the State Conservation Commission, and what the Board was being asked was to approve the allocation of the site and to approve the plans, a 1-story building with flat roof.

After a review of the site plan showing where this building would be located and an explanation of its relationship to the proposed Natural Resources Building, the Board approved the allocation of the site and the plans, pointing out that they felt that since the building was being paid for out of Conservation Commission funds, their approval of the building plans was hardly necessary.

It was then explained to the Board that in the construction of the Academic Building, back of Cabell Hall, the University's Shops would have to be moved. The suggested location North of the proposed location for the Geological Survey Building was reviewed and approved as satisfactory.

The plans for an addition to the Hospital Kitchen, which will be a 5-story connecting link 46′ × 75′ between the Private Patients Pavilion and the Psychiatric Building, were reviewed. The sum of $151,758.00 is available for the two floors to be used for the Kitchen and its appurtenances. The three stories above to be used for Private Patients are to be amortized either in whole from room rent or to be supplemented with Hill-Burton funds, if available.

It was pointed out that due to the enactment of laws governing the handling, preparation, and serving of foods and disposal of garbage, that an addition to the appropriation of $51,758.00 was necessary, and that based on our estimate of the total cost of the work involved, the Governor had authorized $100,000.00 additional, making $151,758.00 available for this work. It was also pointed out that this addition was tentatively planned when the Private Patients Pavilion was erected in 1935.

The Board approved the proposals and authorized the plans to be completed.

The Men's Dormitories were then discussed. It was pointed out that due to the high cost of construction and other factors, it was deemed advisable to consider larger units of the corridor type, and a new site for the first group of dormitories to house 1,000 students for which an appropriation is available.

About 3:15 p. m. Mr. Anderson, Mrs. Willis, Mrs. Wailes, Mr. Carrington, Mr. Gravatt, President and Mrs. Darden, Mr. Frank Hartman, and Vincent Shea met on the site, went over the plans and discussed the location with respect to the University Cemetery, and the distance between dormitories on the north-south axis, etc.

After about one hour's study and discussion, Mr. Anderson, speaking for the members present, requested that a front and rear elevation of the dormitories be prepared and presented at a later date to the full Board for further review and discussion.

Members present were favorable to the proposed change, but Mr. Anderson again pointed out that this was not a commitment of the Board.

The following resolution, prepared by Mr. Garnett at the request of the Board, was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia:

We hereby extend to Morgan Lafayette Combs, President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia our heartiest congratulations and best wishes upon the completion by him of twenty years of service as President of Mary Washington College.

After a successful career in the public school system of Virginia, as superintendent of schools of Buchanan County, State supervisor of high schools, State director of educational research and surveys of Virginia, instructor at William and Mary summer school and professor of education at George Washington University, he was named as President of Mary Washington College (then Fredericksburg State Teachers College) to succeed the late A. B. Chandler, Jr., and assumed that post in January, 1929. The improvements in and additions to the physical plant and the administrative and teaching staff wrought under his administration have been of such a character that the General Assembly has consistently increased the annual appropriations, and in 1944 passed a statute for the purpose of converting within four years Mary Washington College into a liberal arts college for women, with the same standards of admission and graduation which obtain for male students in the College of Arts and Sciences of the University located at Charlottesville and making it an integral part of the University system. With the guidance and help of the President of the University, Dr. Combs has successfully accomplished that purpose. His success is attested by the fact that, although the admission requirements have been raised to make the college open only to the upper half of high school graduating classes, the enrollment at Mary Washington College has increased from 460 to 1,744, thus constituting that institution as the largest women's college in Virginia.

The Board requested that President Combs be asked to prepare a report on housing accommodations at Mary Washington College, setting forth the number of occupants per building, the number of rooms per building, and the number of occupants per room.

There being no further business to come before the meeting, the same was adjourned after a motion to that effect had been made, seconded, and carried.

In accordance with your letter of December 10th and in accordance with the existent contract, we hereby propose the following engineers for the structural and mechanical engineering services, respectively, in connection with the preparation of the working drawings for the Academic Building.

To prepare the plans and specifications for the structural elements, such as foundations, reinforced concrete, etc., we propose the name of Marshall and Congwer, 1147 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. We have investigated the record of this firm very carefully, as well as consulting with other architects and public officials in the District of Columbia, and we find that they are very highly commended for their work with public agencies and other private architects.

For the mechanical engineering services, consisting of heating and ventilating, plumbing, etc., we submit the name of Karsunky, Weller & Gooch, 2011 "K" Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. We know this firm very well as they have done some prominent work with us for the U.S. Navy. Their record is outstanding and they are well equipped with the personnel and experience for this job.

Both of these engineers have agreed to perform all the necessary engineering services, respectively, on the basis of the fee arrangement now in force in contracts between the Commonwealth of Virginia and other architects and engineers.

If these two proposed firms are satisfactory, we propose to enter into contracts with them, using our regular form of engineering contract and appending thereto, and making it a part of the contract, the existing contract between ourselves and the University of Virginia, dated July 23, 1948. When the contracts are executed, we will forward to you an executed copy of the agreement between both engineers and ourselves.

Both of these engineering firms are located in the District of Columbia, close to our Washington office where the work will be performed.

May we have your confirmation of this arrangement so we may proceed forthwith with the necessary work for the Academic Building.

In accordance with your letter of December 10th and in accordance with the existent contract, we hereby propose the following engineers for the structural and mechanical engineering services, respectively, in connection with the preparation of the working drawings for the Academic Building.

To prepare the plans and specifications for the structural elements, such as foundations, reinforced concrete, etc., we propose the name of Marshall and Congwer, 1147 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. We have investigated the record of this firm very carefully, as well as consulting with other architects and public officials in the District of Columbia, and we find that they are very highly commended for their work with public agencies and other private architects.

For the mechanical engineering services, consisting of heating and ventilating, plumbing, etc., we submit the name of Karsunky, Weller & Gooch, 2011 "K" Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. We know this firm very well as they have done some prominent work with us for the U.S. Navy. Their record is outstanding and they are well equipped with the personnel and experience for this job.

Both of these engineers have agreed to perform all the necessary engineering services, respectively, on the basis of the fee arrangement now in force in contracts between the Commonwealth of Virginia and other architects and engineers.

If these two proposed firms are satisfactory, we propose to enter into contracts with them, using our regular form of engineering contract and appending thereto, and making it a part of the contract, the existing contract between ourselves and the University of Virginia, dated July 23, 1948. When the contracts are executed, we will forward to you an executed copy of the agreement between both engineers and ourselves.

Both of these engineering firms are located in the District of Columbia, close to our Washington office where the work will be performed.

May we have your confirmation of this arrangement so we may proceed forthwith with the necessary work for the Academic Building.
