---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1949'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1949) May 13, 1949
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 13, 1949

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MRS. SMITH QUALIFIES AS VISITORFRANK TALBOTT, JR. APPOINTED VISITORGIFTSDEATH OF DR. F. W. HOFFERRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSZETA PSI FRATERNITY LEASEMR. BARRON BLACK ELECTED RECTORBOXINGADMISSION OF LOCAL GIRLSUNCCILECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSCHRISTOPHER G. MEMMINGER TRUSTFRATERNITY REGULATIONSNCAA REGULATIONSPETITION FROM LAW SCHOOL STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL RE: LAW SCHOOL CONCESSIONUNIVERSITY BUDGET 1949-50DEVELOPMENT FUNDREPORT OF THE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON THE FUTURE OPERATIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT FUNDMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVE OF ABSENCEHEAD OF SPANISH DEPARTMENTFACULTY SALARY SCALEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE FACULTY SALARY SCALE SEPTEMBER 1, 1949BECK PROPERTYNEW DORMITORIESFACULTY HOUSING PROJECTSUNSHINE LAUNDRY PROPERTYFURNISHINGS CONTRIBUTED TO "BROMPTON"REPORT OF THE MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From The Texas Company, for a one-year fellowship in the School of Chemistry

$1,500.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used for the Bibliographical Society of the University

500.00

ANNUAL SALARY

AMT. STEP INCREASE

INTERVAL

Assistant Instructor

$2,500

1 academic year

2,650

Instructor

2,880

$120

1 academic year

3,000

3,120

3,240

Assistant Professor

3,420

180

1 academic year

3,600

3,780

3,960

Associate Professor

4,200

200

2 academic years

4,400

4,600

4,800

5,000

Professor

5,200

250

2 academic years

5,450

5,700

5,950

6,200

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Black, Carrington, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Trout, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Miller.

Mr. Garnett was elected Rector pro tempore.

The minutes of the meeting of April 8, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

Mrs. Smith stated that on April 9, 1949 she had appeared before the Judge of the Circuit Court of Augusta County and qualified as a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Mr. Frank Talbott, Jr., appointed by the Governor on April 12, 1949 to succeed Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., resigned, for the term ending February 29, 1952, stated that he had duly qualified before the Judge of the Corporation Court of Danville.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts:

Dr. Frank William Hoffer, Associate Professor of Sociology, who had been on the staff of the University since 1926, died April 13, 1949.

The following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Thomas Williams Douglas, Assistant Professor of Commerce and Business Administration, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective at the end of the session of 1948-49. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Mr. Kenneth Charles Rathbun, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, be and the same is hereby accepted, effective at the end of the session of 1948-49. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

Upon recommendation of the President the following leaves of absence, promotion, elections, and appointments were approved.

Dr. Vernon W. Lippard, Dean of the Department of Medicine, granted leave of absence from June 18 to August 20, 1949, for a survey of medical education in Italy sponsored by the Rockefeller Foundation.

Dr. William McSwain Breazeale, Professor of Electrical Engineering, granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1949-50 in order to do research at Oak Ridge.

Dr. Edward R. Dyer, Jr., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, now on leave of absence, granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1949-50 in order to complete the investigation he has been making at the Mount Wilson Observatory during the session of 1948-49.

Mr. Douglas Wagner Ehninger, Instructor in Speech and Drama, promoted to Acting Assistant Professor of Speech for the session of 1949-50, at a session salary of $3,510.

Dr. George R. Minor as Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1949, at a basic salary of $3,000. This is a replacement for Dr. M. L. White, who has resigned.

Dr. Richard W. Garnett, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1949, his compensation to be limited to private practice earnings.

Mr. John Herbert McQueen as Instructor in Physics, beginning in September, 1949, at a session salary of $3,400.

RESOLVED that the following gentleman, associated with the Research Unit of the Department of Highways, be and they are appointed Lecturers in Highway Engineering for the session of 1949-50.

Mr. Tilton E. Shelburne, B.S.C.E., M.S.E., with a remuneration of $325.00 for teaching one class.

Mr. Philip L. Melville, A.B., B.S., B.S.C.E., M.S.C.E., with a remuneration of $250.00 for teaching one class.

Mr. John C. Stevens, B.S.C.E., M.S.C.E., with a remuneration of $525.00 for teaching one class.

Mr. Robert L. Shpp, B.S.C.E., with a remuneration of $525.00 if he teaches a class.

Captain Olin Scoggins as Professor of Naval Science, effective June 1, 1949, without salary from the University. This is a replacement for Captain Hurt.

Lieutenant Henry Bress as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective July 1, 1949, without salary from the University. This is a replacement for Lieut. Comdr. Luther R. Johnson, who is being transferred.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, appeared before the Board and made the following statement.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 15th day of June, 1925, a resolution was adopted authorizing Mr. C. Harding Walker, who was then Rector of the University, to execute a contract by which a lot owned by the University, situated a short distance north of the Fayerweather Gymnasium and having a front of 160 feet along the west side of Rugby Road, a depth of 138 feet on its southern side, and a depth of 102 feet on its northern side was leased to Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Incorporated, and pursuant to this resolution Mr. Walker, as Rector, executed said lease which was dated June 15, 1925.

Mr. Perkins then presented a carbon copy of said lease, with the signature of C. Harding Walker affixed thereto.

And by deed of trust dated June 15, 1925, recorded in the Clerk's Office of Albemarle County, in D.B. 191, p. 135, said Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Incorporated, conveyed all of its interest and rights under this lease to John S. Battle and C. H. H. Thomas, Trustees, to secure its 20 bonds for $1,000.00 each, all dated June 15, 1925, and payable to the University in from 1 to 20 years after date, respectively, with interest at 6%.

Apparently this lease was never completed by having the University's seal affixed and attested and the only copy we have, which is the copy just presented to this meeting, was never executed by Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi. However this may be, the Fraternity proceeded to erect a large and expensive house on the lot which has been occupied by said Beta Chapter ever since its completion in 1926, and said Chapter has otherwise complied with all other terms of said lease.

On May 21, 1938, the charter of Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Inc., was revoked and annulled by the State Corporation Commission on account of failure to pay annual registration fees for the two preceding years.

Under date of April 6, 1948, the active alumni of Beta Chapter, believing that the situation described above should not be allowed to continue, obtained a new charter for a corporation under the name of "Beta Chapter House Corporation." This is a non-stock corporation, its members being all members of Zeta Psi Fraternity, namely, B. F. D. Runk, William R. Duke, Jr., Dr. R. Gregory Magruder, Cammann C. Duke, Dr. Frederick H. Wilke, and W. Allan Perkins. The principal office of this corporation is in Charlottesville, and one of the main purposes of this incorporation was to have in existence an organization composed of local and responsible alumni who could more properly manage the business of Beta Chapter. To this end the Trustees of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Inc., a National organization, have filed their bill in chancery in the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, asking that pursuant to Sections 3813 and 3880 of the Code of Virginia one or more persons be appointed as receiver or receivers of the defunct corporation to take charge of its estate and effects and to collect any debts due and belonging to said corporation, and that its affairs be would up and any equity of redemption held by the old corporation in the original lease and in the fraternity house aforesaid, subject to any debts still due by it, be transferred to said new corporation.

The Rector and Visitors of the University is made one of the parties defendant in this bill, and as Attorney for the University I would like to be instructed to file an answer for the University to this bill, in which answer the statement will be made that the University recognizes the correctness of the allegations of the bill, believes that the lease of June 15, 1925, above referred to, should be further approved, and states that the University is ready and willing, upon transfer of all of the assets and equities of the old corporation to the new Beta Chapter House Corporation to execute and deliver the new lease, the terms of which shall be identical with those of the old, except that the lessee under the new lease shall be Beta Chapter House Corporation, it being understood that this new lease shall not be delivered to said Beta Chapter House Corporation until after all assets and equities of Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Incorporated, the defunct corporation, shall have been properly vested in said Beta Chapter House Corporation, pursuant to decree or decrees of Albemarle Circuit Court entered in the chancery cause aforesaid.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED - (1) That the terms of said lease of June 15, 1925, are hereby ratified and approved;

(2) That W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, be and is hereby instructed and authorized to prepare and file an answer on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the bill in chancery which has been filed in the Circuit Court of Albemarle County by the Trustees of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, as complainant against Ivey F. Lewis, Bernard P. Chamberlain, and others, in which answer the University will admit the correctness of the allegations of the bill, will express its approval of the terms of the old lease of June 15, 1925, and will state that it is ready and willing to execute and deliver a new lease upon terms identical with those of the old except that the lessee under the new lease shall be Beta Chapter House Corporation, such new lease not to be delivered to said Beta Chapter House Corporation until after all assets and equities of Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Incorporated, the defunct corporation, shall have been properly vested in said Beta Chapter House Corporation pursuant to decree or decrees of Albemarle Circuit Court entered in the Chancery Cause aforesaid.

Mr. Perkins then presented to the meeting a form of new lease which he stated had been drawn so as to embody the exact terms of the old lease of June 15, 1925, and asked that a resolution be adopted authorizing the execution of this lease on behalf of the University and directing him to deliver said executed lease when the conditions set out in the foregoing resolution have been complied with.

It was, thereupon, further

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and is hereby authorized and directed to execute said lease in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, be and is hereby authorized and instructed to affix the corporate seal thereto and attest the same, and W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, is instructed to deliver said lease to the lessee named therein, Beta Chapter House Corporation, when he is satisfied that all assets and equities of Beta Chapter of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Incorporated, have been legally vested in said Beta Chapter House Corporation pursuant to decree or decrees of Albemarle Circuit Court entered in the chancery cause of the Trustees of Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America v. Ivey F. Lewis, and others, now pending in the Circuit Court of Albemarle County.

The Board then went into executive session with Judge Barksdale presiding. At the completion of the session Judge Barksdale reported that Mr. Barron Foster Black had been elected Rector of the University, succeeding Edward Rielley Stettinius, Jr. who resigned on March 16, 1949.

Captain Norton G. Pritchett, Director of Athletics for the University, was present for this discussion.

Dr. Trout stated that several members of the Board had asked that action on the continuance of inter-collegiate boxing be deferred until the study being made at the University of Wisconsin was completed. He said that this study would take two years to complete and he very much doubts that the results will be conclusive.

Since the last meeting of the Board, Dr. Trout has written the heads of the five State mental institutions. To date he has received four replies, all stating that they believe inter-collegiate boxing should be abolished. Dr. Trout reiterated the statement he made at the April meeting, to the effect that the Virginia Medical Society was opposed to boxing.

Captain Pritchett stated that he felt if boxing were discontinued, the University should examine the effects upon participants of other bodily contact sports such as football and lacrosse. Captain Pritchett has investigated the reasons why so many colleges have abolished boxing, finding that there are five major reasons:

(1) Lack of interest by students.

(2) High costs.

(3) Poor sportsmanship on the part of the fans.

(4) Difficulty of securing a good coach.

(5) One school because of the death of a boxer from a blow received in a match.

Captain Pritchett stated that he personally had tried to see that every precaution was being taken to protect our boxers. He feels very strongly that if the Wisconsin study shows that boxers are permanently injured by participation, the University should discontinue the sport.

Mr. Carrington then introduced a letter addressed to the Board of Visitors by James A. Leftwich, the only Olympic boxing representative from the University.

Twenty-four years have elapsed since I left the University, '25. It has been 28 years (1921) since the first boxing team was organized at Charlottesville. It is still a source of considerable pleasure and pride, to me, that I was a member of that first team. I am also happy to have been Captain of two of Virginia's successful teams in the early 'twenties, and the University's representative on the American Olympic Boxing Team, to Paris, France during 1924.

The late President Alderman and his wife called on me in France at the Olympic Team camp, a quarter of a century ago. I will never forget his kindly remarks to me at that time. He told me boxing had earned a fine place in the hearts of Virginia men, and that I had contributed greatly to bring dignity to a sport that had long been held in disfavor. He told me Virginia was grateful to me for my effort in helping to make the sport respectable and a credit to Virginia's sporting activities. He said he was delighted with the way the sport helped to develop the minds and bodies of Virginia men, and that boxing was a credit to The University. "I know Virginia boxers," Dr. Alderman told me, "and yourself in particular, will derive enormous benefit from your athletic activity in this sport later in life, as well as now. You have my sincerest wishes for your success in both." This was a long time ago. But it is a quote I shall never forget!

It comes as a distinct shock to me that your Board is now considering terminating boxing as a sport at The University. Boxing for nearly several decades has given a great deal to The University. The excellent results have had high visibility, both in sporting prestige and in substantial earnings of the teams, down the years.

At this distance from my own undergraduate days, the thing to consider is the effect on the participants, and nothing else. I certainly do not propose to hold myself up as a shining example of the benefits of the sport of boxing, or its ultimate effects. However, it has been my good fortune to know many fine men who have boxed during their college days. I do not recall one who had suffered because he had once boxed. On the contrary, countless scores succeeded, where otherwise they would possibly have been mental and physical weaklings had they not had the advantages of boxing.

Col. Edward Eagan, former Assistant U. S. Attorney, New York City, and now Boxing Commissioner for the State of New York, boxed his way through Yale, won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he also boxed, and was a member of three Olympic Teams. The very Canadian from McGill University who defeated me in the '24 Olympics is now a highly respected physician.

I could type out a list of twenty outstanding men in nearly all the professions (attorneys, engineers, architects, doctors, statesmen, artists, and any number of writers) who gave able account of themselves in the amateur boxing ring when they were collegians. With rare exception, none carry more than a dented proboscis, a prominent cheek-bone, or perhaps a cartileged knuckle, or two. All of them have brought sturdy bodies, clean minds because of the necessity for health living, enormous amounts of stamina, and undefeatable determination to their nature lives, because of the peculiar nature of the sport of boxing in which they engaged while youths!

It is remarkable to observe boxing at Virginia. For it transcends the usual fisticuffs found in other amateur-inter-collegiate circles: TEAM-PLAY! While boxing is a sport of individual against individual, Virginia for nearly three decades has instilled an esprit de corps in its demonstrations of the manly art of self-defense. Team-play is a marvelous thing to behold. Virginia teams, in my memory, have always been more closely knit than many another sport one could examine.

After many years of newspaper and magazine activity, I recall many interviews for articles on the subject of sports and the after-effects. I would like to report to you Gentlemen some of my findings regarding boxing. Perhaps you have heard the expression: \`punch-drunk', more frequently encountered in professional rather than amateur circles. These are the subjects who are said to have \`taken too many' on the chin, or around the optics. They are usually found to be slightly more than somewhat \`off-the-beam.' THEY WERE IN THAT CONDITION BEFORE THEY EVER STEPPED INTO A BOXING RING! This can be verified. The injuries received during any given period among a group of amateur boxers is negligible, and completely off-set by the advantages of keen physical and mental condition, not to mention the numerous invaluable lessons learned in combat, and team-play, the boys obtain in boxing.

I sincerely trust, Gentlemen, that you will give the Student Body, and the Alumni an opportunity to express themselves before you take any action directed toward eliminating boxing as a sport at Virginia. It might be helpful to have the opinions of the Presidents of other universities, where boxing prevails, as well as the Superintendents of the United States Naval and Military Academies. It would be interesting to know what they think boxing does for the young men at those institutions.

A vote was then taken on the recommendation of the Athletics Committee made at the April meeting, i.e., that boxing be continued at the University as an inter-collegiate sport. The recommendation of the Committee was approved; Dr. Trout wished to be recorded as voting in opposition to the above resolution.

The rule for the admission of women students to the University of Virginia which was in operation during the war years was approved to be continued for the session of 1949-50.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that approval be and is hereby given to the charging off of schedules 57, 58, and 59 of uncollectible hospital accounts recommended for cancellation by the Hospital Accounts Committee.

Mr. Black presented a letter from Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, requesting instructions concerning an audit of transactions entered into by Bankers Trust Company of New York, acting as trustee for the Christopher G. Memminger Trust, in which the University has a remainderman's interest. A motion was carried advising Mr. Perkins to request the State Auditor of Public Accounts to make an audit of the assets of this trust prior to the University's acceptance.

The President presented a letter from Mr. E. Henry St. Clair, President of the Inter Fraternity Council, requesting an amendment to Section 5 of the rules governing fraternity conduct adopted by the Board of Visitors February 13, 1948. Section (5) now reads as follows: "No change may be made in these rules except by resolution of The Rector and Visitors." The Inter Fraternity Council requested that this section be amended to read: "No change may be made in these rules unless approved by the President of the University of Virginia." Mr. St. Clair stated the Inter Fraternity Council believes that such a change would bring about closer cooperation between the Administration and the Inter Fraternity Council. The amendment of the regulations was approved as requested.

The President presented the following letter.

At the meeting of the Compliance Committee held April 7, 8, and 9 at Savannah, Georgia it was voted to extend until July 1, 1949 the date by which it will be necessary for you to advise us in regard to compliance with the Code. If you are intending to take steps which will result in compliance, it is still necessary that these steps be taken prior to September 1, 1949.

A petition was presented from the Concession Committee of the Law School Student Advisory Council concerning the concession in the Law School now under control of the Alumni Association. The petition was referred to the Athletics Committee for study.

The President presented the proposed University budget for the year 1949-50, copies of which had been mailed to all members of the Board on May 4. Action on this matter was deferred until the June meeting so that the members might have more time to study the budget.

Mr. Anderson, Chairman of the Committee on the conduct of the Development Fund, presented the following report.

This committee, composed of Mr. Gay, Mr. Black, and Mr. Anderson, has been charged with the duty of formulating a plan for the future conduct of the Development Fund. It met on April 7, at which time it considered favorably the proposal outlined in this Report. On April 8, it met with President Darden and discussed the subject with him in order to obtain his views.

The committee believes that the starting point of any long-range plan for fund raising should be the creation at the University of an office of Publicity and Public Relations, and we recommend to the Board that such an office be created. While the committee does not intend to define all of the duties of the office, it suggests that the principal functions should be as follows:

(1) The office should be concerned with the overall relations between the University, the student body, and the public. It should endeavor to take advantage of opportunities to develop favorable public relations of all sorts and to have its Director, the officers of the University, and faculty members appear as speakers, or otherwise, on occasions when it would be advantageous to the University for such appearances to be made. In this field the office should serve as a source of ideas for the use of the agencies of the University to develop good public relations.

(2) It should have charge of, and be responsible for, the direction of all publicity at the University, and all persons engaged in publicity work should be attached to this office and be under its supervision. The office should be the source of ideas for presenting the University in a favorable light and making use of our numerous assets for obtaining favorable notice on the part of the public. The office should consider the effect of any publication which is circulated at the University or sent out by its representatives or students. While it would not be expected to act as censor, it should call to the attention of the President any matters which might result in unfavorable publicity.

(3) The Director should cooperate with, and make suggestions to, the Alumni Secretary for developing and coordinating alumni activities for the best interest of the University.

(4) The Director should be directing head of all fund-raising activities organized by the University or any of its departments. He should be the central figure about whom would be built future general campaigns for funds. He should have continually in mind opportunities to make contact with endowments, corporations, and wealthy individuals with a view to having them contribute to the development of the University. He should be a man who can properly represent the University before such bodies and individuals and persuasively present her need. The committee considers that this officer would rank with the important deans of the University. Consequently, the abilities of the individual chosen must be of a high order. We believe that if the proper person can be found, he will be of tremendous assistance to the President in carrying on the public relations and promotional work of the University and that his value in being able to give full time to the planning and carrying on of money-raising activities will amply justify his salary. The committee believes that our failure to obtain such a key figure to take part in the recent Development Fund campaign is responsible in large measure for the workers losing headway and for the disappointing result obtained to date.

The committee's plan, therefore, for the future conduct of the Development Fund is to place it in the hands of the Director of Publicity and Public Relations as soon as he can be appointed and to turn over to him the records and equipment of the Development Fund, together with such personnel as may be authorized by the Board. Contributions to the expenses of the office incident to fund-raising might be worked out so that each separate campaign would bear its proper share of the expenses caused by it.

President Darden stated that he had recently had a long talk with Mr. Buford Scott, who felt that the alumni should direct the drive for funds. Mr. Gay stated that all large universities had established a department of publicity and development as an integral part of the administration, and he felt that it would be a mistake to organize such an office as a part of the Alumni Association.

Action on the recommendations of the Committee was deferred until the June meeting, pending a discussion of the proposal with the Alumni Board of Managers.

Dr. Matila Ghyka, Professor of Art of the East, granted leave without pay during the first semester of the 1949-50 session.

The committee appointed to investigate this matter, of which Mr. Black is Chairman, requested Professor Louis J. Cabrera to appear before the Board. Professor Cabrera stated that he did not hold a Ph. D. degree, but an honorary Litt. D., and that at the time he applied for the position at Mary Washington College he did not attempt to deceive the authorities there by claiming that his honorary degree was an earned degree. President Combs then stated that Professor Cabrera had been employed with the full knowledge that he did not have a Ph. D. degree, but that his other qualifications fully justified his appointment. Professor Cabrera was then excused.

Dr. Combs stated that Professor Cabrera's work had been of a high order and that he was a valuable member of the faculty, well liked both by his fellow professors and by the students.

No action was taken in the matter, pending recommendations from the committee

President Combs stated that some time ago the Rector and Visitors approved a salary scale for the faculty and staff of Mary Washington College, however, the Governor and the Director of the Budget failed to approve this scale. In lieu thereof, the Governor has submitted another scale, which is given below. The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED that the salary scale submitted herewith and approved by the Governor for Mary Washington College effective September 1, 1949, be and the same is hereby approved.

A motion was carried directing President Combs, in cooperation with the Mary Washington College Committee, to secure at least two impartial appraisals of the property located at the west entrance gates to the College. If the appraisals are acceptable to the Committee, they would be authorized to pay not in excess of $35,000 for the Beck Property.

President Combs was requested to investigate the possibility of constructing a dormitory to house 150 students.

President Combs was requested to advise the faculty of Mary Washington College that the Board of Visitors does not feel that it can undertake a faculty housing project at this time, because of the high cost of construction.

A proposal to purchase this property was referred to the Mary Washington College Committee for study.

Upon recommendation of the President of Mary Washington College, a resolution was adopted directing the Secretary to write letters expressing the appreciation of the Board for the interest and generosity of those individuals, listed below, who contributed decorations and furnishings to "Brompton."

Miss Nancy V. McClelland

Senator Benjamin T. Pitts

Mr. Franco Scalamandre'

Kittinger Furniture Company

Baker Furniture Company

Mr. Ernest LoNano

A verbal report was given for the Mary Washington College Committee by Mrs. Wailes, Chairman. The Committee recommended to the Board that a major in physical education be established. Mrs. Wailes presented a minority report making a substitute recommendation that a special degree of B. S. in Health, Physical Education and Recreation be set up at Mary Washington College similar to the special degree of B. S. in Home Economics established in 1947. President Darden stated that he felt that before action was taken on this matter a careful study should be made by a committee representing both Mary Washington College and the University at Charlottesville. A motion was carried requesting the Mary Washington Committee to study the matter jointly with the presidents and deans of the University at Charlottesville and of Mary Washington College.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.

Twenty-four years have elapsed since I left the University, '25. It has been 28 years (1921) since the first boxing team was organized at Charlottesville. It is still a source of considerable pleasure and pride, to me, that I was a member of that first team. I am also happy to have been Captain of two of Virginia's successful teams in the early 'twenties, and the University's representative on the American Olympic Boxing Team, to Paris, France during 1924.

The late President Alderman and his wife called on me in France at the Olympic Team camp, a quarter of a century ago. I will never forget his kindly remarks to me at that time. He told me boxing had earned a fine place in the hearts of Virginia men, and that I had contributed greatly to bring dignity to a sport that had long been held in disfavor. He told me Virginia was grateful to me for my effort in helping to make the sport respectable and a credit to Virginia's sporting activities. He said he was delighted with the way the sport helped to develop the minds and bodies of Virginia men, and that boxing was a credit to The University. "I know Virginia boxers," Dr. Alderman told me, "and yourself in particular, will derive enormous benefit from your athletic activity in this sport later in life, as well as now. You have my sincerest wishes for your success in both." This was a long time ago. But it is a quote I shall never forget!

It comes as a distinct shock to me that your Board is now considering terminating boxing as a sport at The University. Boxing for nearly several decades has given a great deal to The University. The excellent results have had high visibility, both in sporting prestige and in substantial earnings of the teams, down the years.

At this distance from my own undergraduate days, the thing to consider is the effect on the participants, and nothing else. I certainly do not propose to hold myself up as a shining example of the benefits of the sport of boxing, or its ultimate effects. However, it has been my good fortune to know many fine men who have boxed during their college days. I do not recall one who had suffered because he had once boxed. On the contrary, countless scores succeeded, where otherwise they would possibly have been mental and physical weaklings had they not had the advantages of boxing.

Col. Edward Eagan, former Assistant U. S. Attorney, New York City, and now Boxing Commissioner for the State of New York, boxed his way through Yale, won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he also boxed, and was a member of three Olympic Teams. The very Canadian from McGill University who defeated me in the '24 Olympics is now a highly respected physician.

I could type out a list of twenty outstanding men in nearly all the professions (attorneys, engineers, architects, doctors, statesmen, artists, and any number of writers) who gave able account of themselves in the amateur boxing ring when they were collegians. With rare exception, none carry more than a dented proboscis, a prominent cheek-bone, or perhaps a cartileged knuckle, or two. All of them have brought sturdy bodies, clean minds because of the necessity for health living, enormous amounts of stamina, and undefeatable determination to their nature lives, because of the peculiar nature of the sport of boxing in which they engaged while youths!

It is remarkable to observe boxing at Virginia. For it transcends the usual fisticuffs found in other amateur-inter-collegiate circles: TEAM-PLAY! While boxing is a sport of individual against individual, Virginia for nearly three decades has instilled an esprit de corps in its demonstrations of the manly art of self-defense. Team-play is a marvelous thing to behold. Virginia teams, in my memory, have always been more closely knit than many another sport one could examine.

After many years of newspaper and magazine activity, I recall many interviews for articles on the subject of sports and the after-effects. I would like to report to you Gentlemen some of my findings regarding boxing. Perhaps you have heard the expression: \`punch-drunk', more frequently encountered in professional rather than amateur circles. These are the subjects who are said to have \`taken too many' on the chin, or around the optics. They are usually found to be slightly more than somewhat \`off-the-beam.' THEY WERE IN THAT CONDITION BEFORE THEY EVER STEPPED INTO A BOXING RING! This can be verified. The injuries received during any given period among a group of amateur boxers is negligible, and completely off-set by the advantages of keen physical and mental condition, not to mention the numerous invaluable lessons learned in combat, and team-play, the boys obtain in boxing.

I sincerely trust, Gentlemen, that you will give the Student Body, and the Alumni an opportunity to express themselves before you take any action directed toward eliminating boxing as a sport at Virginia. It might be helpful to have the opinions of the Presidents of other universities, where boxing prevails, as well as the Superintendents of the United States Naval and Military Academies. It would be interesting to know what they think boxing does for the young men at those institutions.

At the meeting of the Compliance Committee held April 7, 8, and 9 at Savannah, Georgia it was voted to extend until July 1, 1949 the date by which it will be necessary for you to advise us in regard to compliance with the Code. If you are intending to take steps which will result in compliance, it is still necessary that these steps be taken prior to September 1, 1949.

Twenty-four years have elapsed since I left the University, '25. It has been 28 years (1921) since the first boxing team was organized at Charlottesville. It is still a source of considerable pleasure and pride, to me, that I was a member of that first team. I am also happy to have been Captain of two of Virginia's successful teams in the early 'twenties, and the University's representative on the American Olympic Boxing Team, to Paris, France during 1924.

The late President Alderman and his wife called on me in France at the Olympic Team camp, a quarter of a century ago. I will never forget his kindly remarks to me at that time. He told me boxing had earned a fine place in the hearts of Virginia men, and that I had contributed greatly to bring dignity to a sport that had long been held in disfavor. He told me Virginia was grateful to me for my effort in helping to make the sport respectable and a credit to Virginia's sporting activities. He said he was delighted with the way the sport helped to develop the minds and bodies of Virginia men, and that boxing was a credit to The University. "I know Virginia boxers," Dr. Alderman told me, "and yourself in particular, will derive enormous benefit from your athletic activity in this sport later in life, as well as now. You have my sincerest wishes for your success in both." This was a long time ago. But it is a quote I shall never forget!

It comes as a distinct shock to me that your Board is now considering terminating boxing as a sport at The University. Boxing for nearly several decades has given a great deal to The University. The excellent results have had high visibility, both in sporting prestige and in substantial earnings of the teams, down the years.

At this distance from my own undergraduate days, the thing to consider is the effect on the participants, and nothing else. I certainly do not propose to hold myself up as a shining example of the benefits of the sport of boxing, or its ultimate effects. However, it has been my good fortune to know many fine men who have boxed during their college days. I do not recall one who had suffered because he had once boxed. On the contrary, countless scores succeeded, where otherwise they would possibly have been mental and physical weaklings had they not had the advantages of boxing.

Col. Edward Eagan, former Assistant U. S. Attorney, New York City, and now Boxing Commissioner for the State of New York, boxed his way through Yale, won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he also boxed, and was a member of three Olympic Teams. The very Canadian from McGill University who defeated me in the '24 Olympics is now a highly respected physician.

I could type out a list of twenty outstanding men in nearly all the professions (attorneys, engineers, architects, doctors, statesmen, artists, and any number of writers) who gave able account of themselves in the amateur boxing ring when they were collegians. With rare exception, none carry more than a dented proboscis, a prominent cheek-bone, or perhaps a cartileged knuckle, or two. All of them have brought sturdy bodies, clean minds because of the necessity for health living, enormous amounts of stamina, and undefeatable determination to their nature lives, because of the peculiar nature of the sport of boxing in which they engaged while youths!

It is remarkable to observe boxing at Virginia. For it transcends the usual fisticuffs found in other amateur-inter-collegiate circles: TEAM-PLAY! While boxing is a sport of individual against individual, Virginia for nearly three decades has instilled an esprit de corps in its demonstrations of the manly art of self-defense. Team-play is a marvelous thing to behold. Virginia teams, in my memory, have always been more closely knit than many another sport one could examine.

After many years of newspaper and magazine activity, I recall many interviews for articles on the subject of sports and the after-effects. I would like to report to you Gentlemen some of my findings regarding boxing. Perhaps you have heard the expression: \`punch-drunk', more frequently encountered in professional rather than amateur circles. These are the subjects who are said to have \`taken too many' on the chin, or around the optics. They are usually found to be slightly more than somewhat \`off-the-beam.' THEY WERE IN THAT CONDITION BEFORE THEY EVER STEPPED INTO A BOXING RING! This can be verified. The injuries received during any given period among a group of amateur boxers is negligible, and completely off-set by the advantages of keen physical and mental condition, not to mention the numerous invaluable lessons learned in combat, and team-play, the boys obtain in boxing.

I sincerely trust, Gentlemen, that you will give the Student Body, and the Alumni an opportunity to express themselves before you take any action directed toward eliminating boxing as a sport at Virginia. It might be helpful to have the opinions of the Presidents of other universities, where boxing prevails, as well as the Superintendents of the United States Naval and Military Academies. It would be interesting to know what they think boxing does for the young men at those institutions.

At the meeting of the Compliance Committee held April 7, 8, and 9 at Savannah, Georgia it was voted to extend until July 1, 1949 the date by which it will be necessary for you to advise us in regard to compliance with the Code. If you are intending to take steps which will result in compliance, it is still necessary that these steps be taken prior to September 1, 1949.
