---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1950'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1950) October 13, 1950
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 13, 1950

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENTGIFTSDEATH OF DR. SMITHRESIGNATIONCHANGE IN TITLECANCELLATION OF APPOINTMENTLEAVE OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSELECTRIC LINE THROUGH COPELEY HILLTIAA CONTRIBUTIONSFEE TO MR. VENABLE MINORNCAA MATTERSTETTINIUS MEMORIAL FUNDROBERT COLEMAN TAYLOR ESTATEINSCRIPTIONS FOR ACADEMIC BUILDINGSTATUS OF HOMER RICHEYHOSPITAL ADMINISTRATIONGARDEN CLUB RESTORATION PROJECTWILLIAM JACKSON HUMPHREYS ESTATE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, to continue a fellowship in chemistry under Dr. Alfred Burger for the session 1950-51

$2,000

From the Institute for the Study of Analgesic and Sedative Drugs, for studies on bromide intoxication under the direction of Dr. S. W. Britton

2,100

From the Upjohn Company, for the continuation for one year of studies on testosterone cyclopentylpropionate under the direction of Dr. William Parson

3,000

From the McGregor Fund, in support of studies of the University libraries by Mr. Harry Clemons, during a three-year period

7,500

From Mr. Thomas W. Streeter, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Collection, valued by the Division of Rare Books and Manuscripts of the Alderman Library at

500

From Mr. Samuel M. Bemiss, three rare books, valued at

645

From Mr. Ronald Tree, the library collection from "Mirador," valued at

3,000

Kyle District:

Part Lot 1, Block 20, Belford Extension 40 × 100 ft., being the northeast corner of 11th Avenue and 5th Street west

$ 2,000.00

Part Lot 20, Block 70 north 25 × 50 ft.

Lot 7 Block 70 West End Realty Sub.

1,200.00

Lot 6 Block 70 West End Realty Sub.

located on 12th St. west & 4½ Alley

Gideon District:

Lots 74 - 75 Norwood Addition near the Geneva Kent School

300.00

Lot 30, South Side Home sites or #1405 - 11th Avenue

4,500.00

Lot "C", Block 287, Flowers Sub. or #3064 - 7th Avenue

3,500.00

$11,500.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Emmett, Gravatt, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Garnett, Gay, and Howard.

The minutes of the meeting of September 8, 1950, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported that the present enrollment of the University was 4,168.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts.

Dr. Dudley Crofford Smith, Professor of Dermatology and Syphilology, and on the professorial staff of the University since 1924, died August 30, 1950.

The Resolutions Committee was requested to draft an appropriate resolution which could be sent to the family of Dr. Smith.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Alfred Akerman, Associate Professor of Forestry and Director of the Seward Forest, be and it is hereby accepted as of November 1, 1950. We wish for him many years of happiness in his retirement.

The Secretary was requested to write a letter to Dr. Akerman expressing the appreciation of the Board for his service to the University.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following change in title, cancellation of appointment, leave of absence, promotion, and elections were approved.

RESOLVED that the title of Mr. Blake B. Woodson, who was elected Instructor in Foreign Affairs on September 8, 1950, be and it is hereby changed to Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the first semester of the session of 1950-51.

RESOLVED that the appointment of Dr. C. Paxton Stodder as Instructor in Pharmacology be and it is hereby canceled since Dr. Stodder, who has been in military service, cannot be released to come to the University.

Dr. Rowland Egger, Professor of Political Science and Director of the Bureau of Public Administration, granted half-time leave of absence during the first semester of the session of 1950-51 to work with the Administrative Tribunal of the United Nations.

Dr. Marcus Burr Mallett, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, promoted to Associate Professor as of the beginning of the session of 1950-51.

Dr. Feliks Gross as Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the second semester of the session of 1950-51, at a salary of $3,500 for the semester.

Mr. Guy Estes, as Assistant Professor of Forestry and Director of the Seward Forest, effective November 1, 1950, at an annual salary of $4,050, to replace Mr. Akerman.

Mr. Avery Catlin as Part-time Instructor in Engineering for the session of 1950-51, at a session salary of $1,500.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 154, 155 and 156, aggregating $32,858.78, recommended by them for cancellation.

An application from the Virginia Electric and Power Company to extend electric lines through a section of Copeley Hill was referred to the President with authority to act.

A resolution was adopted continuing the policy of matching Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association contributions for faculty members called into the armed forces, which policy had been in operation in World War II.

The Board voted a fee of $750 plus expenses to Mr. C. Venable Minor for legal services rendered the University in the case of Gregory Hayes Swanson v. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The President presented a letter from Mr. H. C. Willett, President of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, in which Mr. Willett stated that the NCAA Council at its meeting of August 12 voted as follows:

"That the Council recommend to the next Convention of the Association that the membership of the University of Virginia be suspended until the Constitutional Compliance Committee certifies that the University of Virginia is in compliance with the Constitution, By-Laws, and Regulations of the Association, such suspension to provide that the University of Virginia shall not be eligible to enter athletes in NCAA meets and tournaments, shall not be eligible to vote in the business affairs of the Association, and that member institutions shall not schedule intercollegiate athletic contests with the University of Virginia until its compliance is certified."

The President stated that the Executive Committee of the NCAA had approved by a vote of eight to five the modification of the present rules so that it would be possible for the University of Virginia to conform. After discussion of the matter, a resolution was adopted directing the Special Committee of the Board on the Study of NCAA Regulations to consider the feasibility of approaching eastern and southern institutions to determine if possible what stand each plans to take on the present NCAA rules at the annual meeting, and further to attempt to organize support among these institutions for the proposed recommendations of the NCAA Executive Committee. The Special Committee was asked to explore the feasibility of securing data showing actual violations of the present Code.

The President requested permission of the Board to establish a fund to be known as the Edward R. Stettinius, Jr. Memorial Fund. He stated that he hoped to secure from friends of Mr. Stettinius funds to endow the Stettinius Chair of Foreign Affairs. This proposal was unanimously approved.

The President presented to the Board the question of approval of investments in this trust, which is held for the benefit of Lillian G. Taylor, and which will eventually come to the University. Whereupon a resolution was adopted requesting the Finance Committee to consider changes in this fund as recommended by the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company, Trustees.

The Board authorized a committee composed of the President, former President Newcome, and Dean Ivey F. Lewis to select appropriate inscriptions for the two tablets above the doors of this building

The President reported that Mr. Homer Richey, who at the June Board meeting was promoted from Assistant Professor to Acting Associate Professor, had declined the promotion. Whereupon a resolution was adopted rescinding this action.

The President again discussed with the Board the difficulties at the Hospital. He stated that he had advised Dr. Lentz of the dissatisfaction of the Medical Faculty with the administration of the Hospital and of their wish that a new administrator be secured to take over the responsibilities shared by him and Mr. Bokinsky, before Mr. Bokinsky's call to active duty with the armed services. He reported that Dr. Lentz did not object to the employment of a new director, but did take the position that he was entitled to remain at his present salary as a member of the Medical Faculty The Members of the Board informally expressed the view that since Dr. Lentz did no teaching his employment by the University was as administrator of the Hospital

It was the sense of those present that the President should secure the services of a new administrator.

Mrs. Smith reported that the Garden Clubs of Virginia had voted to donate the receipts of the 1951 Garden Week to the restoration project now under way at the University. The Rector was requested to write the president of the Garden Clubs of Virginia to express the appreciation of the Board for this generous gift

Mr. Merideth P. Wiswell, of the firm of Parsons and Wiswell, Attorneys, of Huntington, West Virginia, appeared before the Board and outlined the procedure being taken in the settlement of the Estate of the late Dr. William J. Humphreys.

Among other matters discussed by Mr. Wiswell, he reported that for the purpose of payment of taxes it had been necessary to sell several parcels of land in the City of Huntington, West Virginia. These sales have been made by Mr. Wm. E. Parsons, who has been appointed Ancillary Administrator in West Virginia, and who, in making these sales, has acted under the general power of sale given the Executors, and their successors, under the Will.

The sales made by Mr. Parsons are as follows:

Mr. Wiswell explained that these sales had all been made at appraised prices but in order to be entirely sure that the appraisal was not too low his firm had these properties re-appraised with a view of obtaining values as to the date of sale, and that, in his opinion, the amounts received in each case were adequate, and Mr. Wiswell asked that the Board approve the action of the Administrator in making these sales, adding that although the sales had been consummated and deeds delivered and purchase price received, the purchasers understood that the transactions would have to be approved by the Circuit Court of Cabell County, West Virginia, in the pending chancery cause of Margaret A. Humphreys and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia v. Washington Loan and Trust Company, Trustee, et als.

Mr. Wiswell was requested by the Board to address a letter to President Darden in which he will repeat and possibly amplify the statements made by him to the Board, as above stated, upon the subject of values of the several parcels of land which have been sold, the purpose of the sales, and the advisability of each, so that these facts may be available for future reference.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that in view of Mr. Wiswell's assurance that the sales were necessary at this time, that in each case the prices are fair and adequate, which facts will be further stated in his letter above referred to, this Board approves each of said sales

Concerning the five sales of the properties located in Huntington, West Virginia, of the William Jackson Humphreys Estate, which sales were made by deeds from William E. Parson, Ancillary Administrator, c.t.a. of the Estate of William Jackson Humphreys, please be advised of the following information concerning the advisability of each of those sales and conveyances

Part Lot I, Block 20, Belford Extension -

This property is a vacant lot being 40 × 100 feet in size, located on the Northeast corner of Eleventh Avenue and Fifth Street West and was sold for $2,000.00 cash. This lot is located in a fair residential section of the City and was I believe, sold for its fair market value.

Part Lot 20, Block 70, North part 25 × 50 feet, Lot 7 of West End Realty Sub. of Block 70, Lot 6, West End Realty Sub. of Block 70 -

The above portions comprise a single vacant lot, being 50 × 124 feet and is located at the corner of 12th Street West and 4½ alley. This lot was sold for $1,200.00 cash and is located in a rather poor residential section of the City. The amount received is in my opinion, the fair market value therefor.

Lot 74 and 75, Norwood Addition -

These two lots are approximately 50 × 120 feet each and were sold for the total sum of $300.00 cash. These vacant lots are located in an undeveloped outlying section from the City and there are no adequate streets, gas, electricity, or sewage systems servicing this section of the City. The amount of $300.00 received for these lots are in my opinion, the fair market value therefor

Lot 30, South Side Home Sites -

This improved lot, known as 1405 - 11th Avenue, contains a small frame bungalow and was sold for the sum of $4,500.00 cash. The house thereon is about 30 years old, and was in great need of painting and structural repairs due to the fact that the joists in the rear of the house were broken, allowing the rear portion to sag. Also, this house was in great need of interior decorating, etc. and the house itself was located one-half block from the colored residential section of the City. It is located upon a lot 40 × 80 feet and the price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value.

Lot "C", Block 287, Flowers Subdivision -

This is a lot approximately 40 × 60 feet and contains a small frame bungalow known as 3064 Seventh Avenue, which lot was sold for the sum of $3,500.00 cash. The house thereon is located about one-half block from the main C. & O. railroad tracks and is located in a poor residential section of the City. The house itself is about 30 years old and greatly in need of painting and repairing, both inside and out. The rear portion of the house will have to be partially rebuilt, due to the poor state of repair. This house is located in front of an unpaved street and the purchase price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value thereof.

All of the above properties were sold in order to raise sufficient funds with which to pay West Virginia Inheritance taxes, debts of decedent, and costs of administration. Each of the above properties were appraised in April, 1950 by three competent real estate agents as to their fair market value and the above prices represent those appraisements. Furthermore, immediately preceding each of the sales above, I had each of the above properties appraised as to their fair market value as of September, 1950, by a highly competent real estate agent and the appraisements made by him as to each of the above properties was the same as each of the selling prices as noted.

The above information is to be appended to the resolution adopted October 13, 1950 at the meeting of the Board of Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and that resolution requested that I forward the above information in letter form.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Concerning the five sales of the properties located in Huntington, West Virginia, of the William Jackson Humphreys Estate, which sales were made by deeds from William E. Parson, Ancillary Administrator, c.t.a. of the Estate of William Jackson Humphreys, please be advised of the following information concerning the advisability of each of those sales and conveyances

Part Lot I, Block 20, Belford Extension -

This property is a vacant lot being 40 × 100 feet in size, located on the Northeast corner of Eleventh Avenue and Fifth Street West and was sold for $2,000.00 cash. This lot is located in a fair residential section of the City and was I believe, sold for its fair market value.

Part Lot 20, Block 70, North part 25 × 50 feet, Lot 7 of West End Realty Sub. of Block 70, Lot 6, West End Realty Sub. of Block 70 -

The above portions comprise a single vacant lot, being 50 × 124 feet and is located at the corner of 12th Street West and 4½ alley. This lot was sold for $1,200.00 cash and is located in a rather poor residential section of the City. The amount received is in my opinion, the fair market value therefor.

Lot 74 and 75, Norwood Addition -

These two lots are approximately 50 × 120 feet each and were sold for the total sum of $300.00 cash. These vacant lots are located in an undeveloped outlying section from the City and there are no adequate streets, gas, electricity, or sewage systems servicing this section of the City. The amount of $300.00 received for these lots are in my opinion, the fair market value therefor

Lot 30, South Side Home Sites -

This improved lot, known as 1405 - 11th Avenue, contains a small frame bungalow and was sold for the sum of $4,500.00 cash. The house thereon is about 30 years old, and was in great need of painting and structural repairs due to the fact that the joists in the rear of the house were broken, allowing the rear portion to sag. Also, this house was in great need of interior decorating, etc. and the house itself was located one-half block from the colored residential section of the City. It is located upon a lot 40 × 80 feet and the price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value.

Lot "C", Block 287, Flowers Subdivision -

This is a lot approximately 40 × 60 feet and contains a small frame bungalow known as 3064 Seventh Avenue, which lot was sold for the sum of $3,500.00 cash. The house thereon is located about one-half block from the main C. & O. railroad tracks and is located in a poor residential section of the City. The house itself is about 30 years old and greatly in need of painting and repairing, both inside and out. The rear portion of the house will have to be partially rebuilt, due to the poor state of repair. This house is located in front of an unpaved street and the purchase price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value thereof.

All of the above properties were sold in order to raise sufficient funds with which to pay West Virginia Inheritance taxes, debts of decedent, and costs of administration. Each of the above properties were appraised in April, 1950 by three competent real estate agents as to their fair market value and the above prices represent those appraisements. Furthermore, immediately preceding each of the sales above, I had each of the above properties appraised as to their fair market value as of September, 1950, by a highly competent real estate agent and the appraisements made by him as to each of the above properties was the same as each of the selling prices as noted.

The above information is to be appended to the resolution adopted October 13, 1950 at the meeting of the Board of Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and that resolution requested that I forward the above information in letter form.

Concerning the five sales of the properties located in Huntington, West Virginia, of the William Jackson Humphreys Estate, which sales were made by deeds from William E. Parson, Ancillary Administrator, c.t.a. of the Estate of William Jackson Humphreys, please be advised of the following information concerning the advisability of each of those sales and conveyances

Part Lot I, Block 20, Belford Extension -

This property is a vacant lot being 40 × 100 feet in size, located on the Northeast corner of Eleventh Avenue and Fifth Street West and was sold for $2,000.00 cash. This lot is located in a fair residential section of the City and was I believe, sold for its fair market value.

Part Lot 20, Block 70, North part 25 × 50 feet, Lot 7 of West End Realty Sub. of Block 70, Lot 6, West End Realty Sub. of Block 70 -

The above portions comprise a single vacant lot, being 50 × 124 feet and is located at the corner of 12th Street West and 4½ alley. This lot was sold for $1,200.00 cash and is located in a rather poor residential section of the City. The amount received is in my opinion, the fair market value therefor.

Lot 74 and 75, Norwood Addition -

These two lots are approximately 50 × 120 feet each and were sold for the total sum of $300.00 cash. These vacant lots are located in an undeveloped outlying section from the City and there are no adequate streets, gas, electricity, or sewage systems servicing this section of the City. The amount of $300.00 received for these lots are in my opinion, the fair market value therefor

Lot 30, South Side Home Sites -

This improved lot, known as 1405 - 11th Avenue, contains a small frame bungalow and was sold for the sum of $4,500.00 cash. The house thereon is about 30 years old, and was in great need of painting and structural repairs due to the fact that the joists in the rear of the house were broken, allowing the rear portion to sag. Also, this house was in great need of interior decorating, etc. and the house itself was located one-half block from the colored residential section of the City. It is located upon a lot 40 × 80 feet and the price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value.

Lot "C", Block 287, Flowers Subdivision -

This is a lot approximately 40 × 60 feet and contains a small frame bungalow known as 3064 Seventh Avenue, which lot was sold for the sum of $3,500.00 cash. The house thereon is located about one-half block from the main C. & O. railroad tracks and is located in a poor residential section of the City. The house itself is about 30 years old and greatly in need of painting and repairing, both inside and out. The rear portion of the house will have to be partially rebuilt, due to the poor state of repair. This house is located in front of an unpaved street and the purchase price received therefor is in my opinion, the fair market value thereof.

All of the above properties were sold in order to raise sufficient funds with which to pay West Virginia Inheritance taxes, debts of decedent, and costs of administration. Each of the above properties were appraised in April, 1950 by three competent real estate agents as to their fair market value and the above prices represent those appraisements. Furthermore, immediately preceding each of the sales above, I had each of the above properties appraised as to their fair market value as of September, 1950, by a highly competent real estate agent and the appraisements made by him as to each of the above properties was the same as each of the selling prices as noted.

The above information is to be appended to the resolution adopted October 13, 1950 at the meeting of the Board of Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and that resolution requested that I forward the above information in letter form.
