---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1950'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSRESIGNATION OF PROFESSOR WEBBRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONSELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSCONVOCATION DAYSCHOOL OF ART AND ARCHITECTURE"LEWIS MOUNTAIN" PROPERTYSTUDENT BOOK SHOPRESOLUTIONS FROM UNIVERSITY SENATE ON ACADEMIC MATTERSBaccalaureate Degree in the CollegeDegree of Master of Engineering PhysicsBachelor of Science Degree in EducationARCHITECTURAL TREATMENT OF THE MEWSGROUP INSURANCEFEE FOR "THE CAVALIER DAILY"TUITION IN DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONREPORT OF COMMITTEE ON HISTORY REQUIREMENTSUNIVERSITY BUDGET 1950-51RUSHTON TRUST FUND AGREEMENTNEGRO APPLICANT FOR LAW SCHOOLSCHOLARSHIP AND FELLOWSHIP FUNDSCONTRACT WITH VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANYBUILDING PROGRAMPower PlantAcademic BuildingREPORT OF UNIVERSITY ATTORNEY"Four Acres"Walter M. Seward EstateWilliam Jackson Humphreys EstateRESOLUTIONS ON MR. CAMPBELL AND MR. CLEMONSRESOLUTIONS UPON RETIREMENT OR DEATH OF FACULTY MEMBERSEXECUTIVE COMMITTEESIGNING OF BOARD MINUTES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From friends of the late Dr. W. A. Montgomery, former Professor of Latin, to establish a book fund in his memory

$ 598.00

From friends of Mr. Harry Clemons, Librarian of the University, who is retiring from active service on July 1, 1950, for the publication of a volume in his honor

1,970.00

From the New York Medical Alumni Association, for the purchase of books by the Department of Medicine Library

100.00

From Mr. Jack M. Burdow, to establish the Herbert W. Burdow Law Book Fund. The money has been received over a period of several years, and the total contributions now amount to

1,100.00

Virginians

Present

Proposed

Students with less than 60 hours

$150

$150

Students with more than 60 hours

100

150

Name of Fund

Amount to be Reinvested

Virginia Mason Davidge

$6,500

William C. Folkes

7,500

Thomas Fortune Ryan

7,000

Joanna Davidge Randall-McIver Foundation

5,000

William A. Herndon

4,000

Benjamin F. Thomas

7,000

James H. Skinner

3,000

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Smith, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Carrington, Garnett, Howard, and Talbott.

The minutes of the meeting of May 12, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts.

The President announced the receipt of a letter from Professor Robert H. Webb tendering his resignation as of June 30th next. He recounted briefly the controversy within the faculty which had prompted the action and expressed his deep regret at the decision.

He pointed out that Mr. Webb was the senior member of the faculty and was one of its most distinguished members, and suggested to the Board that he be permitted to request Mr. Webb to reconsider. The Board by unanimous vote approved the action and expressed the hope that Professor Webb would decide to remain. The letter was not read to the Board, Mr. Darden stating that he would submit it at the next meeting if he were unsuccessful.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations, leaves of absence, promotions, and elections were approved.

The following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Erland C. Gjessing as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, be and the same is hereby accepted as of June 30, 1950. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Alfred P. Kehlenbeck as Associate Professor of Germanic Languages, be and the same is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1949-50. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Mr. Richard Carter Donnelly, Associate Professor of Law, be and the same is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1949-50. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

Dr. Orland E. White, Professor of Agricultural Biology and Director of the Blandy Experimental Farm, granted leave of absence from July 1, 1950 through April 30, 1951, to do research work in Burma, without salary from the University, but with a grant of $2,000 for the purpose of continuing research now under way.

Mr. George P. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Speech, granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1950-51, in order to take graduate work at Columbia University.

Mr. Jack Preston Dalton, from Associate Librarian and Associate Professor to Librarian and Professor, effective July 1, 1950.

Mr. Charles W. Smith, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Art, effective at the beginning of the session of 1950-51.

Mr. James Norman Dent, from Acting Associate Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, effective in September, 1950.

Mr. Earl Ruffner Boggs, from Acting Associate Professor, part-time, to Associate Professor of Education, effective in September, 1950, at no change in salary.

Dr. Alfred P. Fernbach, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective in September, 1950.

Dr. Charles A. Micaud, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs effective in September, 1950.

Dr. Homer G. Richey, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Acting Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective in September, 1950.

Dr. Edward Eugene Younger, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective in September, 1950.

Dr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, effective in September, 1950.

Mr. Lyne Starling Reid, from Acting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective in September, 1950.

Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering as of September, 1950.

Dr. Francis G. Lankford from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, effective in September, 1950, at no change in salary.

Dr. Richard A. Meade from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education as of September, 1950.

Mr. Emerson G. Spies from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, effective September, 1950.

Dr. John W. Eldridge as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective in September, 1950, at a session salary of $4,550, to be paid from the Memminger Fund.

Mr. Morris Sullivan McKeehan as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective September 1, 1950, at a salary of $4,300.

Dr. Thomas N. Warren as Instructor in Clinical Pathology, effective July 1, 1950, at no salary from the University.

Mr. John K. King as Instructor in Foreign Affairs for the session of 1950-51, at a salary of $3,600.

Dr. Charles G. Craddock, Jr., as Instructor in Internal Medicine, without salary from the University, effective July 1, 1950.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 132, 133, and 134, aggregating $9,671.02, recommended by them for cancellation.

A proposal from the Committee on Public Occasions to eliminate Convocation Day from the University calendar was approved.

The President explained to the Board that last year he had requested Mr. Campbell to study the School of Art and Architecture and make recommendations to enable the School to be split and a separate School of Fine Arts to be established. Since Mr. Campbell's death, the President reported that he had asked Professor Charles Smith to make recommendations concerning the School of Fine Arts, and that he hoped before long to be able to present to the Board a proposal for the separation of Art and Architecture.

The President reported that the University had been offered the "Lewis Mountain" property at $125,000, but that he thought the price was too high. The President was requested to keep the Board advised in this matter and if the price were substantially lowered, the University might be interested in purchasing the property.

The President reported that he had received a letter from the Bookstore Committee, together with a report by the Student Committee on the Bookstore Project. The Rector was asked to appoint a committee to study the matter and make a report to the Board. Messrs. Edward C. Anderson, Benjamin W. Mears, and Dowell J. Howard were appointed, with Mr. Anderson to act as chairman.

The President presented the following resolution adopted on May 30 by the University Senate. The resolution was approved by the Board.

RESOLVED: That the provisions of the College catalogue relating to the "Professional Option in Law or Medicine" and "Professional Option in Law" be deleted from future catalogues.

AND RESOLVED: That the program for a baccalaureate degree in the College of Arts and Sciences may include courses in other departments of the University, provided (a) that such courses shall not exceed eighteen (18) semester hours; provided (b) that such courses shall have been recommended for inclusion in a major program by the academic school concerned and for the particular student by an official advisor of that school; and provided (c) that such courses shall have been submitted to and approved by the College Faculty.

The Board approved a program for the degree of Master of Engineering Physics, which program had been approved by the University Senate. A copy of the memorandum setting forth detailed requirements for the degree was filed with the Secretary.

The Board approved the program for the Bachelor of Science degree in Education, as proposed by the Department of Education and approved by the University Senate. The work approved comprises programs in general education; professional education; and specialized education in the following fields: (1) For students majoring in elementary education, (2) For students majoring in secondary education, and (3) For students majoring in both elementary and secondary education. A copy of the report setting forth the details of this program was filed with the Secretary.

Plans for the architectural treatment of "The Mews," as drawn up by the late Professor E. S. Campbell, were approved.

The President reported that numerous insurance companies were making proposals concerning group insurance for faculty members and administrative personnel. The matter was referred to the Finance Committee for study.

The charge for "The Cavalier Daily," student newspaper, was increased from $3.00 to $4.00 per session for each student.

A reduction in tuition for those Virginia students in the last two years of the Department of Education was eliminated, and the fees were made uniform for all four years, in accordance with the following proposal:

The report of a committee appointed by the Rector to study the feasibility of including a course in American history and government as a prerequisite for the bachelor's degree was presented and approved.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted October 14, 1949, the Rector appointed the undersigned Committee to meet with the President and such members of the Faculty as the President thought appropriate to study the desirability and feasibility of including a course in American History and Government as a prerequisite for the Bachelor of Arts degree. At the present time neither subject is required of applicants for that degree.

In a letter of November 15, 1949, to its Chairman, the President suggested that your Committee's study "be made a part of a general review of the curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences" and stated that, "The Faculty Committee on College Policy will shortly report, and Dean Lewis tells me that one of the things suggested is the setting up of a committee to review the work being done in the College. An over-all review is badly needed and much would be gained by making it a general instead of a piecemeal process."

Pursuant to the President's suggestion, your Committee has therefore awaited the coming in of the report of the Committee on College Policy, which we understand has now been received by the President. A copy has just been made available to your Committee. Upon the subject with which we are concerned the report has this to say:

"(3) We recommend either that a new committee be constituted to study and report upon the College curriculum or that the present Liberal Arts Committee be requested to make recommendations to the Academic Faculty relative to the curriculum."

Since receiving the foregoing report, the President has suggested to your Committee that it presently report to the Board its conclusions and recommendations, in order that the Board may make known to the committee to be created to review the college curriculum its views upon the question whether a course, or courses, in American History and Government should be made a prerequisite to the awarding of the Bachelor of Arts degree.

Your Committee therefore submits the following report:

The teaching of American History and Civil Government in the elementary and high schools of the State is now and has been for many years required by law (Section 22-223, Virginia Code, 1950), and these subjects are also included in the "branches of learning" required to be taught at the universities (id., Section 23-63).\* \*State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

It seems implicit in these provisions of law that the subjects mentioned are considered as essential in the education of the youth of our State. Both are taught at the elementary and high school levels as well as at the college level. The question submitted to your Committee, therefore, is simply whether their study should be compulsory in the institution of learning which Jefferson is credited with intending should constitute the cap-stone of the educational system of Virginia.

It may be suggested that it would be better to leave the matter to the choice of the student, since compulsion is a force alien to the traditions of the University. This view point is contrary to the practice presently obtaining in respect to other subjects, since the University now requires applicants for the B.A. degree to take courses in English (Composition and Literature), a foreign language (ancient or modern), Mathematics and a natural science (the University of Virginia Record, College of Arts and Sciences, Volume XXXV, No. 1, January 1, 1949).

The addition of American History and Government as a required course, or courses, would, therefore conform to rather than depart from the established practice, if the importance of the subject so requires.

It has seemed to your Committee, therefore, that the real question with respect to which it should submit its conclusions and recommendations is whether the study of American History and Government by University students is of such importance in the acquisition of a Liberal Arts education as to require it to be taken as a condition to the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree.

In discussing this question, Doctor A. L. Strand, President of Oregon State College, recently and aptly said:

"The main justification for publicly supported education is training for intelligent citizenship. This is enhanced through an understanding of American history, which is a synthesis of the origin and development of American society. History reveals the blunders to be avoided and the constructive achievements to be continued. History provides us with perspective and tolerance at home and abroad."

Being in accord with these views, your Committee has sought to ascertain the extent to which other American colleges and universities place sufficient emphasis upon the teaching of American History and Government to prescribe it, or them, as required courses in a liberal arts education, and was happy to find that a most comprehensive investigation had recently been made by the "New York Times" which published in its issue of April 17, 1950, a highly informative article by Mr. Benjamin Fine, accompanied by a chart showing the "Results of Study of American History in Colleges and Universities" based on questionnaires returned from 1,301 such institutions, of which 455 were public, 353 private and 493 denominational.

The questionnaire submitted contained, among others, the following inquiries

"Is American History required for a degree (undergraduate, graduate)?" and

"Do you believe American History should be compulsory (for undergraduates, for graduates)?"

The answers to these inquiries are most interesting and revealing. As to the former 162 (53.6%) public, 63 (21.8%) private and 114 (27.8%) denominational institutions, a total of 339 (33.9%) of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

In response to the latter inquiry, 336 (73.8%) public, 159 (45.0%) private, and 305 (61.9%) denominational, a total of 800, or 61.5%, of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

Two other questions submitted by the "New York Times" seem especially pertinent to the present inquiry. They are:

"Do you believe that a fundamental knowledge of American History will enable our students to become better citizens?" and

"Do you feel that if our students have an adequate knowledge of American History they will be less likely to turn to other ideologies?"

The answers to these inquiries are also most interesting and revealing. As to the former, 430 (94.5%) public, 278 (78.8%) private, and 423 (85.8%) denominational, a total of 1,131, or 86.9%, of the replies received were in the affirmative. In response to the latter inquiry, 407 (89.5%) public, 248 (70.3%) private, and 394 (79.9%) denominational, a total of 1,049, or 80.6%, of the replies received answered in the affirmative

The foregoing significant demonstration of opinion among American institutions of higher learning favorable to the teaching of American History and Government and its, or their, inclusion in the courses required for the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree in order that students may be better informed in the ideals of citizenship and accordingly less likely to turn to other ideologies, impels your Committee to suggest that the Board of Visitors approve and recommend that the curriculum of the College be revised as soon as possible to include these subjects in a required course, or courses.

The budget for the University for the year 1950-51 was approved, with total revenues estimated at $4,950,507 and estimated expenditures at $4,943,786

Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented to the meeting a form of Covenant or Agreement designed to be executed on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in evidence of its acceptance of the sum of $1,000.00, to be paid on execution of the Agreement and of its willingness to accept such future amounts as may be added to the fund by the family of the late Dr. Urban Joseph Peters Rushton. The purpose of the creation of this fund is to establish a perpetual memorial to Dr. Rushton in the form of this fund, the income from which is to be used for the purchase of books of significance in the field of American or English Literature, and, more particularly, in the field of Contemporary Poetry and Literary Criticism and useful to the University Library.

Mr. Perkins stated that the purpose and substance of this Agreement have been approved by Mr. Harry Clemons, the Librarian. He also stated that from a legal standpoint the Agreement is properly drawn.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, President, be and is hereby authorized and instructed to execute this Agreement in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and to deliver a copy thereof to Mr. William J. Rushton, of Birmingham, Alabama, expressing to Mr. Rushton the appreciation of this Board and its gratification that the memory of Dr. Urban Joseph Peters Rushton, a brilliant and valued member of the Faculty of this University, should be so appropriately preserved.

The President was requested to secure an opinion from the Attorney-General on the application of a Negro to take graduate work in Law, and to discuss the matter with the Governor prior to the next meeting of the Board

President Darden reported to the Board that certain scholarship funds have accumulated large amounts of income which have not been expended because of the lack of applicants during the war. Since these accumulations are in excess of the amounts needed for current scholarship awards, it was recommended to the Board that a portion of the accumulated income in these funds be reinvested in principal

It was, thereupon

RESOLVED that the amounts indicated for the following scholarship funds be reinvested as principal

In addition to the funds listed above, it was suggested that $25,000 of the accrued income in the Bayly-Tiffany Scholarship Fund be reinvested. The Board took no immediate action on this recommendation, but requested a list of persons awarded Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships during the session 1949-50 and a list of the names of any applicants who were refused Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships.

A resolution was adopted ratifying and approving the action of the President in signing a standard contract for electric service for the University with the Virginia Electric and Power Company.

The President presented plans for the new Power Plant, which were approved, and the President was authorized to advertise for bids.

The selection of brick for the Academic Building was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee, with the request that a meeting of the Committee be held and action taken prior to July 1.

Mr. Perkins reported to the Board that the sale of "Four Acres" had been consummated.

Mr. Perkins reported also the completion of the sale of the Colonial Heights property which came to the University as a part of the Seward Estate, and which the Board authorized to be sold at the May 1950 meeting

The committee which had been appointed to consult with Mr. Perkins on this matter presented the following report.

The undersigned were designated by The Rector under date of April 15, as a committee to consult with the University's Attorney, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and report to the Board concerning problems raised in connection with the devise to the University of a farm in Monroe County, West Virginia, under conditions stated in the Will of Dr. William Jackson Humphreys, deceased

We have completed our study of the matter and have had the benefit of the factual and legal investigation made by Mr. Perkins, prior to our conference with him.

We concur in his opinion that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia does not have power to accept the devise and recommend the adoption of a resolution in form shown on the sheet attached as a part of this report.

(1) RESOLVED that this Board here record its conclusion, reluctantly reached, after studying the facts and conditions attached to the generous devise by Dr. William J. Humphreys, deceased, giving to the University his farm in Monroe County, West Virginia, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia does not have authority under the laws by which it is governed to own and operate this farm for the purposes set out in Dr. Humphreys' Will.

(2) All other provisions of the Will, designed to benefit the University of Virginia, and dealing with subjects other than the ownership and management of the farm, are gratefully accepted;

(3) That this Board here record its deep appreciation of the loyal devotion to the University which the devise of the farm and the other bequests in Dr. Humphreys' Will so eloquently express, deploring the existence of those limitations which prevent our full and unrestricted cooperation in his plan for extending useful and practical knowledge,

(4) That the President of the University be and is hereby requested to forward a copy of this resolution to Mrs. Humphreys so that she may be advised of its appreciation of her husband's generosity, and to Mr. Leonard Marbury, Vice-President and Trust Officer of the Washington Loan and Trust Company, Executor of Dr. Humphreys' estate.

After discussion, the report of the committee was approved and the foregoing resolution was adopted by unanimous vote of the Board.

A resolution was adopted requesting the Committee on Resolutions, of which Mr. Garnett is chairman, to draft appropriate resolutions noting the retirement of Mr. Harry Clemons, Librarian, and the death of Professor Edmund S. Campbell

In July 1949 a resolution was adopted establishing as a policy of the Board the practice of recording in its minutes the resolution passed by the faculty upon the retirement or death of a faculty member, and of transmitting the resolution to the retiring faculty member or to his family upon his death.

After discussion of this matter, it was decided to discontinue this policy.

In accordance with statutory regulations requiring the election of the Executive Committee, the present Committee was unanimously re-elected. Members are: The Rector, Mr. Black, Chairman; Mr. Gay, Mr. Anderson, Vice-Chairmen; Mr. Carrington, Mrs. Wailes.

The following resolution was adopted.

BE IT RESOLVED that Barron F. Black, Rector, be and is hereby authorized to sign minutes of this Board for Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., which minutes were not signed by Mr. Stettinius because of his absence from the country, followed by a long illness prior to his resignation.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted October 14, 1949, the Rector appointed the undersigned Committee to meet with the President and such members of the Faculty as the President thought appropriate to study the desirability and feasibility of including a course in American History and Government as a prerequisite for the Bachelor of Arts degree. At the present time neither subject is required of applicants for that degree.

In a letter of November 15, 1949, to its Chairman, the President suggested that your Committee's study "be made a part of a general review of the curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences" and stated that, "The Faculty Committee on College Policy will shortly report, and Dean Lewis tells me that one of the things suggested is the setting up of a committee to review the work being done in the College. An over-all review is badly needed and much would be gained by making it a general instead of a piecemeal process."

Pursuant to the President's suggestion, your Committee has therefore awaited the coming in of the report of the Committee on College Policy, which we understand has now been received by the President. A copy has just been made available to your Committee. Upon the subject with which we are concerned the report has this to say:

"(3) We recommend either that a new committee be constituted to study and report upon the College curriculum or that the present Liberal Arts Committee be requested to make recommendations to the Academic Faculty relative to the curriculum."

Since receiving the foregoing report, the President has suggested to your Committee that it presently report to the Board its conclusions and recommendations, in order that the Board may make known to the committee to be created to review the college curriculum its views upon the question whether a course, or courses, in American History and Government should be made a prerequisite to the awarding of the Bachelor of Arts degree.

Your Committee therefore submits the following report:

The teaching of American History and Civil Government in the elementary and high schools of the State is now and has been for many years required by law (Section 22-223, Virginia Code, 1950), and these subjects are also included in the "branches of learning" required to be taught at the universities (id., Section 23-63).\* \*State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

It seems implicit in these provisions of law that the subjects mentioned are considered as essential in the education of the youth of our State. Both are taught at the elementary and high school levels as well as at the college level. The question submitted to your Committee, therefore, is simply whether their study should be compulsory in the institution of learning which Jefferson is credited with intending should constitute the cap-stone of the educational system of Virginia.

It may be suggested that it would be better to leave the matter to the choice of the student, since compulsion is a force alien to the traditions of the University. This view point is contrary to the practice presently obtaining in respect to other subjects, since the University now requires applicants for the B.A. degree to take courses in English (Composition and Literature), a foreign language (ancient or modern), Mathematics and a natural science (the University of Virginia Record, College of Arts and Sciences, Volume XXXV, No. 1, January 1, 1949).

The addition of American History and Government as a required course, or courses, would, therefore conform to rather than depart from the established practice, if the importance of the subject so requires.

It has seemed to your Committee, therefore, that the real question with respect to which it should submit its conclusions and recommendations is whether the study of American History and Government by University students is of such importance in the acquisition of a Liberal Arts education as to require it to be taken as a condition to the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree.

In discussing this question, Doctor A. L. Strand, President of Oregon State College, recently and aptly said:

"The main justification for publicly supported education is training for intelligent citizenship. This is enhanced through an understanding of American history, which is a synthesis of the origin and development of American society. History reveals the blunders to be avoided and the constructive achievements to be continued. History provides us with perspective and tolerance at home and abroad."

Being in accord with these views, your Committee has sought to ascertain the extent to which other American colleges and universities place sufficient emphasis upon the teaching of American History and Government to prescribe it, or them, as required courses in a liberal arts education, and was happy to find that a most comprehensive investigation had recently been made by the "New York Times" which published in its issue of April 17, 1950, a highly informative article by Mr. Benjamin Fine, accompanied by a chart showing the "Results of Study of American History in Colleges and Universities" based on questionnaires returned from 1,301 such institutions, of which 455 were public, 353 private and 493 denominational.

The questionnaire submitted contained, among others, the following inquiries

"Is American History required for a degree (undergraduate, graduate)?" and

"Do you believe American History should be compulsory (for undergraduates, for graduates)?"

The answers to these inquiries are most interesting and revealing. As to the former 162 (53.6%) public, 63 (21.8%) private and 114 (27.8%) denominational institutions, a total of 339 (33.9%) of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

In response to the latter inquiry, 336 (73.8%) public, 159 (45.0%) private, and 305 (61.9%) denominational, a total of 800, or 61.5%, of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

Two other questions submitted by the "New York Times" seem especially pertinent to the present inquiry. They are:

"Do you believe that a fundamental knowledge of American History will enable our students to become better citizens?" and

"Do you feel that if our students have an adequate knowledge of American History they will be less likely to turn to other ideologies?"

The answers to these inquiries are also most interesting and revealing. As to the former, 430 (94.5%) public, 278 (78.8%) private, and 423 (85.8%) denominational, a total of 1,131, or 86.9%, of the replies received were in the affirmative. In response to the latter inquiry, 407 (89.5%) public, 248 (70.3%) private, and 394 (79.9%) denominational, a total of 1,049, or 80.6%, of the replies received answered in the affirmative

The foregoing significant demonstration of opinion among American institutions of higher learning favorable to the teaching of American History and Government and its, or their, inclusion in the courses required for the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree in order that students may be better informed in the ideals of citizenship and accordingly less likely to turn to other ideologies, impels your Committee to suggest that the Board of Visitors approve and recommend that the curriculum of the College be revised as soon as possible to include these subjects in a required course, or courses.

The undersigned were designated by The Rector under date of April 15, as a committee to consult with the University's Attorney, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and report to the Board concerning problems raised in connection with the devise to the University of a farm in Monroe County, West Virginia, under conditions stated in the Will of Dr. William Jackson Humphreys, deceased

We have completed our study of the matter and have had the benefit of the factual and legal investigation made by Mr. Perkins, prior to our conference with him.

We concur in his opinion that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia does not have power to accept the devise and recommend the adoption of a resolution in form shown on the sheet attached as a part of this report.

Pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted October 14, 1949, the Rector appointed the undersigned Committee to meet with the President and such members of the Faculty as the President thought appropriate to study the desirability and feasibility of including a course in American History and Government as a prerequisite for the Bachelor of Arts degree. At the present time neither subject is required of applicants for that degree.

In a letter of November 15, 1949, to its Chairman, the President suggested that your Committee's study "be made a part of a general review of the curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences" and stated that, "The Faculty Committee on College Policy will shortly report, and Dean Lewis tells me that one of the things suggested is the setting up of a committee to review the work being done in the College. An over-all review is badly needed and much would be gained by making it a general instead of a piecemeal process."

Pursuant to the President's suggestion, your Committee has therefore awaited the coming in of the report of the Committee on College Policy, which we understand has now been received by the President. A copy has just been made available to your Committee. Upon the subject with which we are concerned the report has this to say:

"(3) We recommend either that a new committee be constituted to study and report upon the College curriculum or that the present Liberal Arts Committee be requested to make recommendations to the Academic Faculty relative to the curriculum."

Since receiving the foregoing report, the President has suggested to your Committee that it presently report to the Board its conclusions and recommendations, in order that the Board may make known to the committee to be created to review the college curriculum its views upon the question whether a course, or courses, in American History and Government should be made a prerequisite to the awarding of the Bachelor of Arts degree.

Your Committee therefore submits the following report:

The teaching of American History and Civil Government in the elementary and high schools of the State is now and has been for many years required by law (Section 22-223, Virginia Code, 1950), and these subjects are also included in the "branches of learning" required to be taught at the universities (id., Section 23-63).\* \*State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

State laws in at least 34 of the States require that public elementary and secondary schools teach United States History and the statutes on this subject in many States are applicable to colleges as well. ("Education for Freedom, as Provided by State Laws", published by the Federal Security Agency, Bulletin 1948, No. 11, Table 1, page 6.)

It seems implicit in these provisions of law that the subjects mentioned are considered as essential in the education of the youth of our State. Both are taught at the elementary and high school levels as well as at the college level. The question submitted to your Committee, therefore, is simply whether their study should be compulsory in the institution of learning which Jefferson is credited with intending should constitute the cap-stone of the educational system of Virginia.

It may be suggested that it would be better to leave the matter to the choice of the student, since compulsion is a force alien to the traditions of the University. This view point is contrary to the practice presently obtaining in respect to other subjects, since the University now requires applicants for the B.A. degree to take courses in English (Composition and Literature), a foreign language (ancient or modern), Mathematics and a natural science (the University of Virginia Record, College of Arts and Sciences, Volume XXXV, No. 1, January 1, 1949).

The addition of American History and Government as a required course, or courses, would, therefore conform to rather than depart from the established practice, if the importance of the subject so requires.

It has seemed to your Committee, therefore, that the real question with respect to which it should submit its conclusions and recommendations is whether the study of American History and Government by University students is of such importance in the acquisition of a Liberal Arts education as to require it to be taken as a condition to the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree.

In discussing this question, Doctor A. L. Strand, President of Oregon State College, recently and aptly said:

"The main justification for publicly supported education is training for intelligent citizenship. This is enhanced through an understanding of American history, which is a synthesis of the origin and development of American society. History reveals the blunders to be avoided and the constructive achievements to be continued. History provides us with perspective and tolerance at home and abroad."

Being in accord with these views, your Committee has sought to ascertain the extent to which other American colleges and universities place sufficient emphasis upon the teaching of American History and Government to prescribe it, or them, as required courses in a liberal arts education, and was happy to find that a most comprehensive investigation had recently been made by the "New York Times" which published in its issue of April 17, 1950, a highly informative article by Mr. Benjamin Fine, accompanied by a chart showing the "Results of Study of American History in Colleges and Universities" based on questionnaires returned from 1,301 such institutions, of which 455 were public, 353 private and 493 denominational.

The questionnaire submitted contained, among others, the following inquiries

"Is American History required for a degree (undergraduate, graduate)?" and

"Do you believe American History should be compulsory (for undergraduates, for graduates)?"

The answers to these inquiries are most interesting and revealing. As to the former 162 (53.6%) public, 63 (21.8%) private and 114 (27.8%) denominational institutions, a total of 339 (33.9%) of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

In response to the latter inquiry, 336 (73.8%) public, 159 (45.0%) private, and 305 (61.9%) denominational, a total of 800, or 61.5%, of the replies received, answered in the affirmative in respect to undergraduate students.

Two other questions submitted by the "New York Times" seem especially pertinent to the present inquiry. They are:

"Do you believe that a fundamental knowledge of American History will enable our students to become better citizens?" and

"Do you feel that if our students have an adequate knowledge of American History they will be less likely to turn to other ideologies?"

The answers to these inquiries are also most interesting and revealing. As to the former, 430 (94.5%) public, 278 (78.8%) private, and 423 (85.8%) denominational, a total of 1,131, or 86.9%, of the replies received were in the affirmative. In response to the latter inquiry, 407 (89.5%) public, 248 (70.3%) private, and 394 (79.9%) denominational, a total of 1,049, or 80.6%, of the replies received answered in the affirmative

The foregoing significant demonstration of opinion among American institutions of higher learning favorable to the teaching of American History and Government and its, or their, inclusion in the courses required for the award of a Bachelor of Arts degree in order that students may be better informed in the ideals of citizenship and accordingly less likely to turn to other ideologies, impels your Committee to suggest that the Board of Visitors approve and recommend that the curriculum of the College be revised as soon as possible to include these subjects in a required course, or courses.

The undersigned were designated by The Rector under date of April 15, as a committee to consult with the University's Attorney, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and report to the Board concerning problems raised in connection with the devise to the University of a farm in Monroe County, West Virginia, under conditions stated in the Will of Dr. William Jackson Humphreys, deceased

We have completed our study of the matter and have had the benefit of the factual and legal investigation made by Mr. Perkins, prior to our conference with him.

We concur in his opinion that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia does not have power to accept the devise and recommend the adoption of a resolution in form shown on the sheet attached as a part of this report.
