---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1951'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1951) June 8, 1951
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 8, 1951

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEESGIFTSRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSDEAN OF GRADUATE DEPARTMENTRUCKER HOME FOR CRIPPLED CHILDRENNAME FOR WOMEN'S DORMITORYBUDGET FOR YEAR 1951-52SEPARATION OF ART AND ARCHITECTURESTOCK TRANSFERMILITARY PROPERTY BONDBOXINGATHLETIC COUNCILBY-PASS AROUND CARR'S HILLTRUCK SIGN ON ROUTE #250MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSBUDGET 1951-52
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance

Mr. Gay, Chairman

Mr. Mears

Mr. Talbott

Buildings and Grounds

Mr. Garnett, Chairman

Mr. Carrington, Vice-Chairman

Mr. Anderson

Mrs. Smith

Mrs. Willis

Mary Washington College

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman

Mr. Garnett

Mrs. Willis

Mrs. Smith

Superintendent of Public Instruction, Mr. Howard

From the estate of the late L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

$ 1, 979.18

From the U. S. Government, Department of State, to carry out a program of training for nine German consular and foreign service specialists during a period ending August 31, 1951

13,045.00

From the estate of the late Miss Jane C. Slaughter, to establish a loan fund for medical students

338.37

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research in plant physiology by Dr. Jacques Rappaport

3,688.00

From the U. S. Navy Department, for research as follows:

Geography, under Col. S. P. Poole

99,807.00

Psychophysiology, under Dr. F. A. Geldard

33,125.00

Astronomy, under Dr. H. L. Alden

2,420.00

From alumni of the Law School, to be used for the Law Review

1,020.00

The annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale and Carrington.

The minutes of the meeting of May 11, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The Rector called for nominations for the members of the Executive Committee to serve during the coming year. Mr. Garnett moved re-election of the present committee, consisting of the Rector as Chairman, Messrs. Gay and Anderson as Vice-Chairmen, Mr. Carrington, and Mrs. Wailes. The motion was seconded by Mr. Mears and the committee was unanimously re-elected.

The following committees were appointed by the Rector to serve for one year:

The President announced receipt of the following gifts and grants.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations were accepted, and the following leaves of absence, promotions, elections, and appointments were approved.

The following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Sidney W. Britton, Professor of Physiology, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. The Board wishes for him many years of happiness and usefulness in his retirement.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Louis O. Quam, Associate Professor of Geography, as of the end of the session of 1950-51, be and it is hereby accepted. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Sidney W. Britton, Professor of Physiology, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session of 1951-52 to accept a Fulbright grant to serve as Visiting Professor of Endocrinology at the University of Nigeria, British West Africa.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Francis J. Duke, Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for military service, beginning at the opening of the session of 1951-52.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Robert A. Kelly, Instructor in Urology, be and he is hereby promoted to Assistant Professor of Urology, effective July 1, 1951, at a yearly salary of $8,000, to be paid from departmental income.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. John Linsley be and he is hereby elected Assistant Professor of Physics, effective at the beginning of the session of 1951-52, at a salary of $4,550.

Dr. Clifford G. Gaddy as Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1951, at a salary of $2,760, to be paid from the earnings of the School of Internal Medicine.

The President recommended the appointment of Mr. Stringfellow Barr as Visiting Professor, to have the direction of a course on the development of American political thought and institutions. He pointed out that this course was approved several years ago by the academic faculty, with the understanding that it was to be given under the auspices of the Schools of Political Science, History and Economics.

After considering a statement by Professor David McCord Wright of the Economics faculty, which had been sent to each member of the Board and to the Secretary, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Stringfellow Barr be and he is hereby elected Visiting Professor of Political Science, effective at the beginning of the session of 1951-52, at a salary of $7,500 per year to be paid from a grant from the Old Dominion Foundation, Inc., with the understanding that Mr. Barr will assume responsibility for the course in the Development of American Political Thought and Institutions as outlined above.

Captain Albert B. Atkinson appointed Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective May 25, 1951, at no salary from the University, to replace Lt. Col. Houston Stiff.

Lieutenant Robert D. Warren appointed Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective approximately August 15, 1951, at no salary from the University, to replace Lt. Henry Bress.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 215, 216, and 217, aggregating $12,814.67, recommended by them for cancellation.

The President announced the retirement of Professor James Southall Wilson as Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies. The Committee on Resolutions was requested to prepare an appropriate resolution recognizing the outstanding services of Dean Wilson.

The President reported that he had appointed Professor Lewis Machen Hammond of the School of Philosophy as the new Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies effective July 1, 1951.

Mr. Darden stated that a committee of the medical staff had studied the possibility of a new site for the Rucker Home but had decided that the present Rucker property was an ideal location. Mr. Darden requested permission to proceed with the plans, with the understanding that the present structure would be torn down to make way for a modern one-story home. The proposal was approved.

The President reported that the special committee of the faculty on naming the Women's Dormitory had recommended the name of Mary Munford Hall as their first choice. Whereupon a resolution was adopted naming the Women's Dormitory Mary Branch Munford Hall.

The budget for the University for the year 1951-52 was approved, with total revenues estimated at $4,946,824 and estimated expenditures at $4,994,823. President Darden pointed out that the budget covering operations for the fiscal year 1951-52 indicated a deficit of $47,999. However, he stated there will be a balance of $48,207 which will accrue from operations during the fiscal year 1950-51, and that this balance would be sufficient to cover the deficit. Thus operations for the biennium will be within the revenues, provided, of course, that the war situation does not upset our estimates as to enrollment.

A resolution was adopted separating the Schools of Art and Architecture as outlined in the report to the President and the Board of Visitors dated September 8, 1949, by the late Professor E. S. Campbell.

Mr. Darden stated that the University had received from the U. S. Trust Company four shares of Consolidated Edison stock, representing a distribution from the David Randall-MacIver Trust which was occasioned by the falling in of a portion of the trust which was held for the benefit of Helen Mason Chase. The following resolution was adopted authorizing the transfer of this stock to the Consolidated Endowment holdings administered by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company.

RESOLVED, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, and Vincent Shea, Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized in the name and on behalf of the University of Virginia to sell, assign, and transfer four (4) shares of the $5.00 cumulative preferred stock of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., represented by Certificate Number 156177 standing in the name of University of Virginia, a public corporation, unto Hamac and Company,

And be it further -

RESOLVED, that the aforementioned company and/or corporation, its transfer agent or agents, its registrar or registrars, its successors or assigns, be and they are hereby authorized to treat Hamac and Company as the holder in fact and owner of said shares and certificates representing the same for any and all purposes including but not limited to the payment or issuing of dividends in money or stock to said Hamac and Company; and be it further -

RESOLVED, that the aforementioned company and/or corporation, its transfer agent or agents, its registrar or registrars, and its respective successors and assigns, be and they are hereby absolved from any and all responsibility in following the said shares and certificates as being the property of the University of Virginia.

The following resolution was adopted.

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by resolution dated 9 July 1948 bound itself to the extent of $100,000 to the United States Government at the time of establishment of a Transportation Reserve Officers Training Corps; and

WHEREAS, a Signal Reserve Officers Training Corps, and an Air Reserve Officers Training Corps are about to be established; and

WHEREAS, the value of the military property furnished or to be furnished to the University of Virginia for the use of the three ROTC units will be substantially increased, it is now required by the United States Government to increase the amount of the previous bond to $225,000.

NOW, THEREFORE, KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby cancels the previous bond in the amount of $100,000 and in lieu thereof is held and firmly bound unto the United States of America in the just and full sum of two hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($225,000.00) lawful money of the United States, for which payment, well and truly to be made, it binds itself, its successors and assigns, firmly by these presents.

THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION IS SUCH that if the above-bounden The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia shall take good care of the property covered by this bond and shall when required by the Secretary of the Army, duly return the same in good order to him, or to such persons as he may designate to receive the same, within thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice so to do, except uniforms, expendable articles, supplies expended in operation, maintenance and instruction, such property as has been worn out in the service for which it was intended, and/or property lost or destroyed without negligence of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, or its agents, including students under its jurisdiction, then this obligation to be void and of no effect; otherwise to be and remain in full force and virtue.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and requested to execute said bond in the name and on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Vincent Shea, Secretary of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and requested to affix the corporate seal of said corporation to said bond, attesting the same and delivering the said bond to the Judge Advocate of the United States Army.

A discussion of this matter had been made a special order of business for the June meeting, but because Mr. Carrington, Chairman of the Athletics Committee, was unable to be present and due to Captain Pritchett's illness, the matter was deferred until the July meeting.

Dr. Emmett pointed out that Captain Pritchett would be unable to attend the meeting in July. Mr. Gravatt stated that many members of the Alumni Association were strong supporters of boxing and he believed they should be given a chance to express their views. He requested that the 3-3-3 Council be advised that this matter would be considered by the Board at its July meeting and given an opportunity to canvass the alumni concerning this matter.

Mr. Darden reported that the academic faculty had disapproved the proposal worked out by the special committee of the Board, a committee of the academic faculty, and the Alumni Association members of the 3-3-3 Council, concerning the organization of a new athletic Council. The President recommended that the committee of the Board retrace its steps and attempt to work out with the special faculty committee a plan which will be acceptable to the Board as well as the academic faculty. Mr. Talbott stated that this is a very serious matter of public relations, of concern to our alumni. He doubts that much can be accomplished by attempting to work with the faculty committee, as the plan had been approved by the committee of the academic faculty but turned down by the academic faculty when submitted for their vote. Whereupon the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors consider acting on the recommendation of the sub-committee of the Board on athletic matters, looking to the creation of an Athletic Council at its next meeting, and that the committee from the academic faculty who appeared before the University Senate on this matter be invited to attend the July meeting of the Board of Visitors, to express the viewpoint of the academic faculty on this matter;

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the academic faculty be notified that this matter is being considered and that the Board would welcome the attendance of other members of the academic faculty at the time this matter is considered.

The president stated that the traffic on Rugby Road had become so heavy that the City wished to build a road circling the north side of Carr's Hill and connecting Rugby Road and Highway 250, running just west of the fraternity houses which overlook the lacrosse field. The President stated that he thought this was a desirable road. Whereupon the Board approved the proposal of the City.

The President stated that the City had requested permission to erect a sign on University property on Route 250 just east of its intersection with Route 29, warning truck drivers that they should use the by-pass around the City. The President pointed out that anything the University could do to reduce the volume of traffic on Main Street would greatly assist both the City and the University, and recommended that the erection of the sign be authorized. Whereupon a motion was offered and passed authorizing the President to approve an appropriate sign to be erected on University property.

The Mary Washington College budget for the year 1951-52 was presented by Dr. Combs. The budget was approved, with the exception of the substitution of $8,800 for the salary of Dr. Combs, which was listed in the budget at $10,000. The 1950 request of the Board to the Governor for an increase in the salary of the President to $10,000 has not been approved.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
