---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1951'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSRESIGNATIONSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSLIZZIE B. MILLER FARMESTATE OF JOHN BASSETT MOOREPORTER PROPERTY ON JEFFERSON PARK AVENUEBAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIP FUNDSTUDENT LOANSSTATE PROGRAM OF GRADUATE WORK IN EDUCATIONATHLETICSBoxingWilliam and Mary Football GameGIFT OF OLD DOMINION FOUNDATION FOR STRINGFELLOW BARRBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEGRADE REPORTSNAME FOR WOMEN'S DORMITORYPETITION OF HOMER RICHEYMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSRESIGNATIONSELECTIONENROLLMENT FOR SESSION 1951-52
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the United States Public Health Service, for research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin during the period from January, 1950, to September, 1951

$11,880.00

From the Atomic Energy Commission, for research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin during one year beginning March 1, 1951

23,220.00

From the National Research Council, a grant for research by Dr. Douglas E. Bragdon during a one-year period beginning July 1, 1951

2,200.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present: President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Smith, Wailes and Willis. Absent: The Rector, Barron F. Black; Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Carrington, Emmett, Howard and Talbott.

Judge Garnett was elected Rector pro tem in the absence of Mr. Black.

The minutes of the meeting of April 13, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts.

The following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Thomas N. Warren, Instructor in Clinical Pathology, be and it is hereby accepted, effective June 30, 1951.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Armistead P. Booker, Instructor in Pediatrics, be and it is hereby accepted, effective June 30, 1951.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Mrs. Ethelda S. Martin, Instructor in Nursing, be and it is hereby accepted, effective April 1, 1951.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Albert A. Fisk, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, be and it is hereby accepted, effective June 15, 1951.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following elections were approved.

RESOLVED that Dr. Ralph Edward Thiers be and he is hereby elected Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective at the beginning of the session of 1951-52 at a session salary of $4,300, twenty per cent of his salary to be paid by the University and the balance to come from the Pratt Fund.

RESOLVED that Dr. Hans Hoch be and he is hereby elected Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective September 1, 1951, at a salary of $4,900 per session. This is a replacement for Dr. Fisk, who has submitted his resignation.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following appointment was approved.

Captain Balch B. Wilson, Jr., as Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1951, to replace Captain Scoggins, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 208, 209 and 210, aggregating $24,694.43, recommended by them for cancellation

The following report, prepared by W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, was presented to the Board.

By her will, which was admitted to probate in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Rockingham County, Virginia, on January 31, 1936, Miss Lizzie B. Miller, after giving to T. Ferdinand Bowen all of her personal property, both tangible and intangible, made the following devise-

"I give and devise to said T. Ferdinand Bowen for life all of my real estate which, after his death, I devise to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia."

The said Miss Lizzie B. Miller died seised and possessed of a tract of land situated in Rockingham County, Virginia, and lying on both sides of State Highway No. 12 immediately north of the Town of Elkton and containing by recent survey of A. R. Myers, S.R.C., 509.987 acres, more or less.

The said T. Ferdinand Bowen died on February 11, 1951, and upon termination of his life estate said property passed under said will to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. And in the event of a sale by them of said real estate the proceeds therefrom shall be invested and the income used for the benefit of charity patients at the University of Virginia Hospital

The Executive Committee of this Board, and the Attorney for the University were of opinion that this farm should be sold as promptly as possible, and that such sale should be at public auction. In accordance with this decision the place was widely advertised, in newspapers and by handbills, and on Saturday, April 28, 1951, it was offered for sale in front of the Court House in Harrisonburg. This sale was largely attended and many bids were submitted. The place was finally knocked out to Celdon Lee Kite of Rockingham County at the price of $61,100.00 which was the last and highest bid received.

Mr. Kite has requested that conveyance be made to himself and to his wife, Mrs. Eula Florence Kite "in equal interests".

The following resolution was thereupon unanimously adopted-

RESOLVED: That sale of the Lizzie B. Miller farm in Rockingham County, Virginia, consisting of 509.987 acres, more or less, to Celdon Lee Kite at the price of $61,100.00 cash be, and is hereby approved and confirmed, and Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, is hereby authorized and directed to execute a deed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by which said tract of land is conveyed, with Special Warranty of Title, to the said Celdon Lee Kite and Eula Florence Kite, his wife, "in equal interests", said Celdon Lee Kite having requested that conveyance be made to himself and to his said wife "in equal interests" instead of to himself alone. And Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board is hereby authorized and directed to affix the corporate seal to said deed, to attest the same and to deliver said deed to said purchasers upon payment to him as Bursar of the purchase money in full.

President Darden reported to the Board that the executors of the estate of the late John Bassett Moore have requested from the University a release for the law library which was bequeathed to the University under paragraph Sixth of Judge Moore's will. Before his death Judge Moore personally superintended the distribution of these books to the University of Virginia Law Library, and this release simply states that the University has no further interest in the settlement of the estate. Thereupon, the following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and is hereby authorized and directed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to execute a Release and Waiver of Citation releasing and discharging the executors of the estate of the late John Bassett Moore from any further claims which the University of Virginia might have against said estate by reason of Judge Moore's will. And Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, is hereby authorized and directed to affix the corporate seal to said Release and Waiver of Citation and to attest the same.

The President presented a letter from Mr. E. R. Porter, who owns land just across Jefferson Park Avenue south of the new Academic Building. Mr. Porter stated that a group of property owners planned to present a petition to the City Council asking the re-zoning to a B business zone of the area on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue and running back 200 feet from Brandon Avenue on the east, Oakhurst Circle on the west. Mr. Porter plans to erect on his property a drugstore harmonizing with University architecture. He requested that the Board approve the re-zoning of this area to a B business zone.

The Board voted not to oppose the re-zoning of this area to a B business zone.

The following resolution was defeated.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that $25,000 of accumulated income of the Bayly-Tiffany Scholarship Fund, which is surplus to the current needs of the fund, be reinvested as principal.

By action of the State Legislature in 1948, the maximum amount which may be loaned to a student during one academic session from the State Student Loan Fund was raised from $200 to $300. The Board of Visitors took the following action in order to have the provisions for administering other student loan funds conform to those for the State Loan Fund:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the maximum amount which may be loaned to any student during an academic session be raised from $200 to $300, unless the donor of the fund has specified otherwise.

The Board approved a proposal of the Department of Education, which had previously been approved by the University Senate, for developing a cooperative program of graduate work in education with the other institutions of higher learning in the State. The proposal read as follows.

The sub-committee of the Senate of the University of Virginia charged with the study of the request submitted by the Department of Education for approval for its participation in a cooperative program of graduate work in education recommends:

1\. That approval be granted for the Department of Education to enter into voluntary cooperation with other institutions in Virginia which now offer work in education. The objectives of such cooperation are seen to be:

a. To improve the standards for graduate work in education in the several institutions which now grant graduate degrees in education.

b. To eliminate, through voluntary action, undesirable duplication of courses, curricula and graduate degree programs in education that now exist and to avoid unnecessary duplication in the future.

c. To utilize more economically and efficiently the resources for graduate study in education that now exist in institutions of higher learning in Virginia.

2\. That in granting permission for the Department of Education to cooperate with other institutions in the state in this program the University of Virginia in no way abrogates its prerogatives for administering its own program of graduate work in education. Recommendations for changes in the graduate program of the Department of Education which may conceivably grow out of the cooperative study by representatives of the participating institutions are to be referred to the faculty of the Department of Education and the University Senate in accordance with normal procedures.

3\. That, in instances in which the Department of Education desires to send a graduate student to another institution which offers graduate work in education for the purpose of obtaining certain courses available in that institution, authorization be granted for the transfer of a maximum of twelve semester-hours of such work to a Master of Education degree program at the University of Virginia provided that the action is approved in advance by the Dean of the Department of Education. In Instances where students working toward the Master of Education degree transfer from another institution after having completed graduate courses in that institution, a maximum of six semester-hours of work will be transferable subject to the approval of the Dean of the Department of Education as provided in the existing regulations of the Department. The Dean will be assisted by a committee, one member of which will be chosen from the appropriate school in the University when the transfer concerns work done in an academic field.

4\. That resources for graduate work in education that may be found to exist in colleges in Virginia which do not now offer graduate work in education be utilized whenever practicable through the program of graduate extension work carried on by the Department of Education in cooperation with the University Extension Division.

The President requested that a decision be made on boxing at the June meeting. It is his feeling that we should recede from intercollegiate boxing.

A resolution was adopted that boxing be made a special order of business at the June meeting and the Board further requested that the special Athletic Committee make a report to the Board at the June meeting.

Captain Pritchett has asked President Darden to present to the Board a proposal by William and Mary that one day be set aside for an annual football game between the University of Virginia and William and Mary. Action on this matter was deferred until the June meeting.

President Darden reported that the Old Dominion Foundation has offered the University $15,000 for two years to bring Stringfellow Barr back to the University in an effort to develop a course in the background of American institutions.

Judge Garnett stated that the assignment of several University houses was coming up and he asked the Board to be considering the possibility of changing the present seniority rule which had been followed by the present Buildings and Grounds Committee.

Mrs. Willis asked if additional information could not be supplied in the semester grade reports. She would like to know: the number of students failing one, two, three or four courses; the number dismissed because of academic failure.

The Committee appointed to select a name for the Women's Dormitory made a report.

The Alumnae Association has sent a petition to Miss Hollingsworth, Dean of Women, requesting that the Women's Dormitory be named Mary Munford Hall. Mrs. Willis stated that the Committee felt that, since no building at the University was named for Thomas Jefferson's favorite daughter, Martha, this name should be considered.

The Committee further stated that they had been advised that no building at the University had been named without a faculty committee first suggesting to the Board certain names for consideration. The Committee of the Board felt that such a faculty committee should be created. Whereupon a resolution was adopted requesting the President to appoint such a committee.

The Board agreed to hear the charges of Mr. Homer Richey, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, against his colleagues in the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Richey appeared before the Board at this meeting, and several hearings on the petition took place during the succeeding months, the record of which is made a part of these minutes by reference.

At a meeting of this Board which took place May 9, 1952, the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the record of the hearings on the petition of Homer Richey, which hearings took place on May 11, June 7, July 12 and September 13, 1951, not be spread in full on the permanent Minute Book, but that the record of these hearings be made a part of the minutes by reference.

The following matters, presented by Dr. Combs, were approved.

Miss Mildred Pruden Stewart, Associate Professor of Health and Physical Education, has resigned in order to accept a position at the University of Florida, at a substantial increase in salary.

Mr. Jack W. Warfield, Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts, has resigned to do graduate work toward the Ph.D. degree at the University of Utah.

RESOLVED that Miss Anna Scott Hoye he and she is hereby elected Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education and Recreation, at a beginning salary of $3,780 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 17, 1951. Miss Hoye served as Assistant Professor of Physical Education at Mary Washington from 1941 to 1944.

Dr. Combs reported that the enrollment for 1951-52 is fairly satisfactory. There are now fifty more freshmen enrolled than at this time last year but approximately ninety less upper-classmen returning. The total enrollment to date for next session is 1079.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
