---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1952'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1952) November 14, 1952
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 14, 1952

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTSLEAVE OF ABSENCEPROMOTIONELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSMILLER SCHOOL LOAN FUNDTRAFFIC CONTROLREGIONAL SCHOLARSHIPSATHLETIC MATTERSMEDICAL SCHOOL DEANPHYSICS BUILDINGADMISSION OF DAUGHTERS OF FACULTY MEMBERSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE SECTIONNAMING OF MUSIC BUILDING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Doherty Foundation, for support of the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs and to endow graduate fellowships in foreign affairs

$16,500.00

From the estate of the late Louise M. Powell, to be used to set up the Stribling Medical Loan Fund

50,628.18

From the estate of the late Harriet S. Roberts Sides to be used to set up the Charles Marion Roberts Memorial Scholarship Fund

15,000.00

From E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for postgraduate fellowships in chemistry

2,900.00

From E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for postgraduate fellowships in physics

3,600.00

From the Richmond Area University Center, for research in various fields

4,081.08

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, for a fellowship in physics

2,600.00

From sundry persons, to be added to the Thomas W. Wolfe University Memorial Scholarship Fund

315.00

From the Charlottesville Branch of the American Association of University Women, for a scholarship in graduate studies

300.00

From the United Daughters of the Confederacy, for the Woodrow Wilson Scholarship

420.00

From the National Committee for Free Europe, to be applied toward the salary of Dr. Geza Teleki as Acting Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs

1,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under Dr. R. H. Henneman of the Department of Psychology

29,969.36

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, at Fredericksburg, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, President M. L. Combs of Mary Washington College; Visitors Coxe, Emmett, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Wailes and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mr. Smith and Talbott

The minutes of the meeting of October 10, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants:

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Gordon Clark Gregory Thomas, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for military duty, effective November 1, 1952.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Philip Henry Ryan, Lecturer in Mathematics in the School of Engineering, be and he is hereby promoted to Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering, for the session 1952-53.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Ellen Frances Birchall be and she is hereby elected Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry as of November 10, 1952. This is a replacement for Dr. Thomas, who is on leave for military duty.

President Darden pointed out that plans for the McIntire School of Business Administration had progressed to the stage where it was desirable to select those members of the present faculty of the Schools of Economics and Commerce who were to be appointed as staff members of the new school, whereupon the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be elected to the staff of the McIntire School of Business Administration for the sessions 1952-53 and 1953-54, all appointments to end on August 1, 1954, with the titles as set forth below:

M. A. J. Barlow, Professor of Commerce and Business Administration

E. A. Kincaid, Professor of Commerce and Business Administration

G. T. Starnes, Professor of Commerce and Business Administration

D. R. Vining, Professor of Economics and Statistics

F. S. Kaulback, Jr., Associate Professor of Accounting

D. B. Moyer, Assistant Professor of Accounting

R. H. Musselman, Lecturer in Accounting

D. D. Drysdale, Instructor in Business Administration.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 316, 319 and 320, aggregating $7,708.95, recommended by them for cancellation.

President Darden read a letter from Mr. Hunter Perry to the Board requesting that the Miller School Loan Fund, which he had established in 1950 and which was not being used, be disestablished and the money paid to The Miller School for the gymnasium fund.

The President expressed doubt that the Board had the authority to disestablish a trust fund, whereupon the matter was referred to Mr. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University.

The President stated that enabling legislation had been passed at the last session of the General Assembly authorizing the Board of Supervisors of Albemarle County, upon request of The Rector and Visitors to adopt an ordinance controlling parking on the grounds at the University.

Mr. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University, has drafted the resolution set forth below to conform to the state statute, together with a proposed ordinance to be passed by the Board of Supervisors of Albemarle County. In his covering letter Mr. Minor stated that the proposed ordinance had been approved by Mr. Downing L. Smith, Commonwealth Attorney of Albemarle County, Mr. Sidney D. Watson, Trial Justice, and Mr. Houchens, Chief of the University Police. A motion was made and unanimously approved that the Board (1) dispense with the reading of the resolution and ordinance and (2) that the resolution as set forth below be adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which Board is the governing body of the University of Virginia, a state supported institution lying wholly within the County of Albemarle, that the Board of Supervisors of said County of Albemarle be, and is hereby, requested to adopt ordinances governing parking of motor vehicles and all other vehicles on the roads, streets, alleys, grounds and other areas within the boundaries of the University of Virginia.

And be it further Resolved: That Barron F. Black, Rector of the University of Virginia, and as such, the presiding officer of said Board of Visitors is requested to transmit this request to the Board of Supervisors of Albemarle County in writing and over his signature as Rector and Presiding Officer of this Board, said request to be accompanied by a copy of this and the foregoing Resolution certified by Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board over the seal of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and these resolutions being adopted pursuant to provision of our Acts of Assembly approved April 1, 1952 - See Acts 1952 p. 770.

The President reported that the Board last spring had approved the establishment of regional scholarships for one year only, with the request that the matter be brought to them for consideration before being continued.

The President stated that he felt the first year's experience with these scholarships had shown that they are a great advantage to the University and should assist in the attraction of outstanding students to the University. A report of the award of these scholarships during the first year had been sent to the members of the Board in June, whereupon a resolution was adopted authorizing the continuance of these scholarships.

The Rector reported that the instructions of the Board concerning the distribution of the Athletic Committee report, the report of the University Senate, and the athletic report of the American Council on Education had been carried out. Accompanying his letter to the President of the Alumni Association, the secretary had sent a separate letter stating that he would furnish the President of the Alumni Association with such copies as he might need of the above reports for distribution to the various alumni chapters, but to date no request had been received from the President of the Alumni Association.

Mr. Black stated that he had received a letter from Mr. Charles Reynolds, President of the Washington Alumni Chapter, requesting copies of several reports, stating that his chapter could not properly consider the matter unless copies were furnished. Mr. Black stated that he phoned the President to find out what the Alumni Association was doing concerning the matter. The President reported that he had talked to Mr. Luck, who stated he did not know what the President of the Association had done, but he would try to find out.

Mr. Black stated that responsibility for the whole athletic program rested with the Board of Visitors. While he believed that the Student Aid Fund had been honestly administered, he was concerned whether or not it would always be so administered. He stated that he would like to see the money disbursed through the Bursar's Office, just as any other scholarship funds are disbursed, which follows the recommendation of the American Council on Education.

President Darden stated that he had met with alumni who had established the Student Aid Foundation about four years ago and had approved their plan for handling funds. However, he feels now that he was mistaken, particularly in view of what has happened at William and Mary.

After discussing various aspects of the matter and expressing concern with the responsibilities of the Board and the seriousness of this matter, a resolution was adopted, calling a special meeting of the Board at 2:00 p.m. on January 8, 1953, at which time representatives of the Alumni Association, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Student Council would be heard. The secretary was requested to send letters to each of the organizations concerned, notifying them of this meeting.

Dr. Thomas Hunter, Assistant Dean of the George Washington University Medical School, has indicated that he would accept the deanship of the Medical School, if it were offered to him. The President requested members of the Medical Committee to express themselves concerning Dr. Hunter's qualifications for the deanship.

Mrs. Smith stated that she had telephoned Dr. Hanger of Columbia University, who was most enthusiastic about Dr. Hunter and felt we were most fortunate in being able to secure him as dean.

Dr. Emmett stated that while Dr. Hunter is partially paralyzed, he carried on an active internship and residency at Presbyterian Hospital in New York without difficulty. Dr. Hunter's specialty is internal medicine, but he is not interested in developing a large practice. His primary interest is in the promotion of research, which has been our weakness in the University Medical School. Dr. Emmett stated that the faculty committee appointed to look for a successor

The President stated that Dr. Hunter would come for $14,000 the first year and $15,000 thereafter. If his appointment were agreeable to the Board, the President would present his name formally at the December meeting. The President was so authorized.

The President asked the members of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board to return to Charlottesville today and select bricks for the new Physics Building.

A question having been raised concerning the action by the Board at its last meeting in authorizing daughters of faculty members to enroll in the College of Arts and Sciences for the Bachelor of Arts degree, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors that the Rector be requested to write the Attorney General to determine whether the Board of Visitors is legally authorized to permit daughters of faculty members to enroll in the College of Arts and Sciences for the Bachelor of Arts degree, while denying admission to all other girls.

The Rector stated that the Mary Washington Committee had met Thursday evening and had heard proponents interested in the naming of the new music building in the Fine Arts Center. The two names suggested were John Powell and John Garland Pollard. The Mary Washington Committee felt that this was such a controversial matter that the facts concerning it should be presented to the Board.

A discussion ensued of the reasons advanced by the proponents of each name. The view was expressed that it would be more appropriate for John Powell to be honored at his alma mater. President Darden stated that he would be glad to discuss the matter with the Chairman of the Music Department and explain to her what was being done at the University to honor John Powell. A resolution was adopted, naming the building for John Garland Pollard. Mrs. Smith and Dr. Emmett voted against the resolution.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
