---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1952'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
NEW MEMBERS APPOINTED TO BOARD OF VISITORSRESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENTCOMMITTEE APPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSREGIONAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMBAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIPSREPLICA OF DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCEMARKER TO COMMEMORATE RESTORED GARDENSPAVILION V GARDENRILEY PROPERTY AT FALLS CHURCHUNIVERSITY INSURANCEENDOWMENT FUND LEGISLATIONUNIVERSITY BUDGET AND THE LEGISLATUREUNIVERSITY HOSPITALSCHOOL OF ARTBLUE CROSS CONTRACTWALTER M. SEWARD ESTATEGREENHOUSE FOR SCHOOL OF BIOLOGYATHLETICSControl of AthleticsFootball CoachesMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSARCHITECTURAL CONTRACT FOR NEW DORMITORYGIFT FROM ALUMNAE ASSOCIATION FOR ENDOWMENT FUND
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance Committee

Mr. Gay, Chairman

Mr. Mears

Mr. Talbott

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

Mrs. Wailes

Mary Washington College Committee

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Mr. Howard

Athletics Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Gay

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Mears

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Howard Smith

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Smith

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Coxe, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott and Wheeler. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Emmett and Wailes.

The minutes of the meetings of February 8, 1952, and February 27, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved

Three new members were appointed to the Board of Visitors of the University by Governor Battle on March 1, 1952. They are: Representative Howard W. Smith, of Alexandria, succeeding Christopher B. Garnett, appointed for a four year term ending February 29, 1956, Whitwell Wentworth Coxe, of Roanoke, succeeding Edward C. Anderson, appointed for a term ending February 28, 1954; and Miss Lucille Wheeler, of Newport News, succeeding Mrs. J. M. H. Willis, appointed for a four-year term ending February 29, 1956

The following members of the Board whose terms expired February 29, 1952, were reappointed by the Governor for four-year terms ending February 29, 1956: Frank Talbott, Jr., Alfred Dickinson Barksdale, Barron Foster Black, and Benjamin William Mears

All three new members were present, and Mr. Coxe presented a certified copy of the oath of office which he had taken. Mr. Smith and Miss Wheeler have not yet qualified

The following resignation from the faculty was accepted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Clyde R. Carter, Instructor in Art, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1951-52. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following appointment was confirmed by the Board.

Lieutenant James E. Weirich appointed Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1952, to replace Lieutenant Commander Wharton.

The Rector announced appointment of the following committees

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 263 and 266, aggregating $9,866.40, recommended by them for cancellation.

The President presented a report of the Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment, which recommended the enlargement of the scholarship program to include a regional scholarship program to be financed from the duPont bequest. The question was raised whether the adoption of the regional plan would make it necessary to cut down on other scholarships now being paid from the duPont Fund. The Secretary of the Board, who is a member of the Scholarship Committee, stated that the funds to finance the regional scholarship program had been released by the transfer of laboratory instructors to the State budget. These instructors previously were paid out of the duPont Fund, which the President and the Secretary both felt was in improper use of the duPont Scholarship Fund. Hence the regional scholarship program could be instituted without in any way affecting the present awards of duPont scholarships within the University.

Mr. Gay inquired if action on the plan could be deferred until the April meeting to give the Board an opportunity to study the proposal. The Secretary advised that such a postponement would mean that the plan could not be inaugurated for another year, as the deadline for scholarship applications for entering students was April 15, and that to conform with an agreement established under the auspices of the College Board Association, awards would be made so that entering students might give notice of acceptance of such scholarships by May 20 of each year

A resolution was adopted approving the regional scholarship plan for one year; the Secretary was requested to send a copy of the report of the Committee to each member of the Board.

Mr. Mears stated that many problems had arisen during the past five years concerning the award of these scholarships, and it was the feeling of many people on the Eastern Shore that the Committee had not followed the wishes of Mrs. Tiffany as expressed in her will. Mr. Mears stated that when he had called particular cases to the attention of the President, the President had taken the matter up with the Scholarship Committee and had been successful in securing scholarships for the applicants in question.

The President stated that he had appointed a new Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment to administer all the resources of the University available for such aid, and he believed the new Committee would be able to handle the Bayly-Tiffany awards more effectively.

Mr. Mears asked that the will of Mrs. Tiffany be examined to determine: (1) whether the need of a student should be a prime factor in making the awards, and (2) whether any awards could be made to persons other than residents of Eastern Shore, Virginia, when applicants of that area were denied scholarships.

The Rector was asked to take the matter up with the attorney for the University for an interpretation of the will.

The President presented to the Board the offer of Mr. Michael Francis Doyle, of Philadelphia, to present the University with a bronze replica of the Declaration of Independence. The Board was pleased to accept this gift, subject, of course, to the approval of the State Art Commission.

Mrs. Smith stated that a change was desired in the original inscription to commemorate the restoration of gardens at the University, because the Garden Club committee felt the wording implied that the gardens had been designed by Thomas Jefferson, when actually he designed only the walls which enclose the gardens. Mrs. Smith presented a revised inscription, which was approved as follows:

These Garden Walls,

Originally designed and built by Thomas Jefferson as a part of his architectural plan for the University of Virginia, were restored and the enclosed gardens planted in 1952 by

The Garden Club of Virginia

The garden designs were by Alden Hopkins, Landscape Architect.

A resolution was adopted requesting a special committee composed of Mrs. Smith, the President and the chairman of the School of Art of the University to select a site for the location of the tablet on the garden walls.

Mrs. Smith reported that the formal dedication of the restored gardens would occur on Thursday, April 24, and that a luncheon was being given in the Rotunda by Mrs. William R. Massie, to which the Board was invited, following which the formal dedication would take place.

The President reported that the design of the restored garden in the rear of Pavilion V made it almost impossible for two families to use the garden, and he recommended that the garden be assigned to Professor Thomas P. Abernethy, whose porch overlooks the garden

After considerable discussion, a resolution was adopted assigning the garden of Pavilion V exclusively to Professor Abernethy.

The Rector reported that he and Mr. Garnett had examined the property in Falls Church, Virginia, which constitutes part of the estate of the late Joseph Harvey Riley and it was their opinion that the University should not sell its interest at this time. Whereupon a resolution was adopted rejecting the offer of the Stanley R. Rowland Company, Inc.

A question was raised concerning the manner of handling the insurance at the University, and the President asked the Secretary to describe to the Board the system now in effect. The Secretary stated that several years ago the local insurance agents organized into the Charlottesville Insurance Exchange, and that all insurance for the University is turned over to a committee representing the Exchange, which distributes the insurance among all the local agents in accordance with the volume of business done by each in this community

The Secretary stated that an engineering survey of University buildings had been completed recently and was now being reviewed by the University. The President was asked to examine the survey and to report on the matter at the next meeting of the Board.

The President reported that after the special meeting of the Board on February 27, he had met with the Governor and a committee from the Senate, and that a compromise had been worked out providing that all gifts received after January 1, 1952, by institutions of higher learning should not be included in the preparation of State budgetary requests.

Mrs. Smith reported that through conversation with a member of the Legislature she had gathered the impression that the University should attempt to organize greater support in the Legislature for its budget requests, that there was a basic group of University graduates who would strongly support the budget but they needed assistance to get our requests approved. It was the feeling that V.P.I. had successfully organized support for its program and that the University Board should attempt to follow suit.

Mr. Howard stated that it was his impression that the support of V.P.I.'s budget had not been organized by their Board of Visitors, but that many groups in the State who were interested in farm problems had rallied behind the program at V.P.I. and strongly supported it in the Legislature.

The President stated that political power in the state of Virginia is still controlled by the rural vote. In high school after high school not a single graduate enters the University, whereas V.P.I. is drawing from all over the State. It was his feeling that unless we can tie the University more closely to the high schools we cannot move forward. With such a tie we could broaden the support in the Legislature for the University.

Mr. Talbott stated that he thought a large number of high school graduates did not come here because they were not properly prepared. Mr. Gravatt stated that he thought there should be a stronger tie between the various alumni groups in the State and the University, that these groups were interested in the progress of local students at the University

Mr. Howard said he believed the really controlling factor in the selection of a college by a boy was the recommendation of the principal or some particular teacher. It was his feeling that the work Dean Stiles was carrying on would in the long run tie the teachers of the State more closely to the University and that they would thus be encouraged to recommend to more boys that they come to the University.

The President reported that hospital costs continued to increase, as an offset to this, in April, 1951 a substantial increase in rates was made with the hope that sufficient revenues would be received to offset the increase in costs. Actually, collections are not holding up and the Hospital is running at a deficit. The President stated that the cost of caring for indigents at the Hospital, which now requires a State appropriation of approximately $800,000 a year, must somehow be shifted from the University if adequate support for the University is to be obtained from the Legislature

Mr. Gay reported that Mr. Leslie Johnson, Assistant Professor of Art, had called on him concerning the Art School at the University. Mr. Johnson stated that he had resigned and hence was speaking only for the welfare of the School. He told Mr. Gay that the graphic arts were being stifled at the University.

Mr. Gay said that he believed the question to be determined was whether the University should have a professional art school or simply courses in art leading to a liberal arts degree. The President stated that it is not possible within the present budget both to offer general art courses and at the same time develop a first class professional art school. He said that both the Dean of the College and the Chairman of the School of Art had recommended the replacement of Mr. Leslie Johnson and Mr. Clyde Carter because their competence was confined to applied arts.

Mr. Gay moved that the President be asked to investigate this matter and report to the Board, which resolution was adopted.

Mrs. Smith reported that she had visited three hospitals in three different states and inquired about the Blue Cross plan in operation in each state. So far as she could determine, the Virginia Blue Cross plan seemed to differ from the plan now used in other states. In Florida none of the fees collected from private patients over and above the amount paid by Blue Cross are recaptured by Blue Cross. It was Mrs. Smith's impression that the whole matter should be investigated.

Whereupon a resolution was adopted requesting the Medical Committee to examine the present Blue Cross contract and report to the Board.

The President reported that the University had received an offer for several lots in Petersburg which had been bequeathed the University in the Seward estate. The University has held these lots for more than fifteen years, and it is the recommendation of the attorney for the University that they be sold. The President and the attorney for the University were authorized to negotiate with the Fort Abbott Corporation of Petersburg and if a satisfactory offer can be obtained, to sell the lots

President Darden stated that the University's School of Biology had never had a greenhouse and that it was not possible to teach courses in botany satisfactorily without such a facility. This need had been called to the attention of the University for many years, but funds had not been available.

The President stated that he had appointed a committee to select a successor to Dr. Ivey F. Lewis as Miller Professor of Biology when he retires at the end of the session 1952-53. The committee reports that it has been unsuccessful in interesting any first class man in coming to the University because of the absence of a greenhouse.

The President stated that it would cost between $40,000 and $50,000 to build a greenhouse, but that he believed it was essential for the School. When asked where he thought the funds could be obtained, the President said he thought there might be some money available at the end of this biennium which could be used for this purpose.

A resolution was adopted authorizing the President to proceed with plans for a greenhouse.

The President presented to the Board a report released by the National Collegiate Athletic Association comparing the proposal of the American Council on Education with existing policies and regulations of the NCAA concerning the control of intercollegiate athletics. The Secretary was instructed to mail copies to absent members.

The Board authorized the President to enter into a five-year contract with football coach Arthur Guepe, with an annual increase of $100.00 per year in his salary.

A resolution was adopted authorizing the President also to negotiate contracts with the other football coaches, providing for small increases in pay, the amount of such increases to be left to the discretion of the President.

In the absence of Dr. Combs, President Darden presented for the Board's inspection and approval a contract with Walford and Wright, architects, for preparation of plans and specifications for a new dormitory, the location of which was approved by the Board on February 8. The contract provides fees to the architects of 5.5% of cost of construction.

A resolution was adopted approving this contract, provided the fee of 5.5% set forth in the contract covers not only design, but supervision of construction of the building, as well.

Mr. Black reported a gift of $200.00 from the Mary Washington College Alumnae Association, to establish an endowment for Mary Washington College.

A resolution was adopted to accept the gift and adding it to the Consolidated Endowment Fund of the University

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
