---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1953'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1953) January 9, 1953
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 9, 1953

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTSRESIGNATIONELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSPLACE OF BOARD MEETINGSREPORT OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEHOSPITALGIFT FOR PHYSICS DEPARTMENTLATIMER CASEATHLETIC REPORTMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSFEBRUARY MEETING OF BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Alumni Association, for use of the School of Engineering

$1,425.60

From the United States Public Health Service, for a grant in aid in behalf of Dr. Cary G. Suter, under the direction of Dr. W. O. Klingman, of the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

540.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President Mary Washington College.

The minutes of the meeting of December 12, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Lewis F. Bell, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, be and it is hereby accepted as of December 31, 1952.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of the University

Dr. George Kriegman, as Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, effective February 1, 1953, without salary from the University.

Dr. Mack I. Shanholtz, as Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine, as of September 1, 1952, at a salary of $1,000 per year.

Mr. Claude D. Minor, as Lecturer in Insurance, for the second semester of the session of 1952-53, at a salary of $600.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 329 and 332, aggregating $5,880.25, recommended by them for cancellation.

During the calendar year of 1952, the Hospital Accounts Committee was authorized by resolution of the Board of Visitors to charge off uncollectible hospital accounts totaling $176,873.00. The total charged off during the year 1951 was $146,538.83.

At the December meeting the question of limiting meetings at Mary Washington to two a year had been proposed by The Rector. After discussion of the matter, a resolution was adopted to hold the February meeting in Charlottesville.

It is the sense of the Board that only two meetings per year should be held in Fredericksburg but, before setting the dates for such meetings, it was decided to consult President Combs to see whether there were any particular times at which it would be desirable for the Board to be in Fredericksburg.

On the evening of December 10, 1952, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds met in conference with Mr. Black and Mr. Darden and prepared the following recommendations regarding the assignment of Pavilions

1\. That a policy be established providing representation on the Lawn from each of the six schools: College and Graduate Studies, Law, Medicine, Engineering, Education, and Business Administration. A precedent for this policy was established by the original assignment of Pavilions on the Lawn to Professors who were heads of the several schools.

2\. Only full professors to be eligible, that deans be given perferential consideration, and that seniority shall be given consideration along with other factors.

3\. That the College, being larger than the other schools, be assigned two additional Pavilions.

4\. That Professor J. W. Beams, being a representative of the College and also qualifying in order of seniority, be assigned to Pavilion III, known as the Graduate House.

5\. That Pavilion VI, known as the Romance Pavilion, and Pavilion II, soon to be vacated by Dean Ivey Lewis, be reserved for schools not now represented on the Lawn.

6\. That no Pavilion be designated for any particular school.

Committee on Buildings and Grounds

The President reported that Governor Battle had authorized a deficit of $189,000 for the current year, after a careful study of operations by the State Auditor.

The Governor directed that if collections of patient accounts can be improved this revenue is to be used to reduce the deficit, not to expand operations at the hospital.

Judge Smith stated that he had read the report carefully and was concerned with the differential in cost between this hospital and the Medical College

Dr. Emmett stated that this hospital is very old and poorly designed and, hence, difficult to administer. In addition, the University Hospital treats more rural patients than the Medical College, who are less able to pay and from whom it is difficult to collect. Another factor affecting the hospital is the reduction in occupancy brought about by the development of local hospitals throughout the State utilizing Hill-Burton funds.

A resolution was adopted referring the Study of the Hospital by the State Auditor to the Medical Committee with the request that recommendations be made to the Board at its March meeting.

President Darden said that one of the crucial questions is whether we should deny admission to those patients not certified as indigents by local welfare officers. He said he had discussed the matter with the Governor who feels that we should not deny medical care to such indigents. The Governor wants us to make every effort to improve collections from patients who can pay and see if we can operate within the deficit authorized.

The President stated that Dr. Sanger of the Medical College has asked him to serve on a committee to prepare a plan for submission to the General Assembly in an effort to make the Assembly aware of the medical care needs of the State.

Mr. Gay stated that he thought the Board should take a firm stand in this matter and call to the attention of the Legislature that the University can not continue to operate the hospital unless sufficient money is provided.

The President stated that the University had received General Motors Stock with a value in excess of $500,000 from Mr. John Lee Pratt, to be used for strengthening and developing the Department of Physics. It was Mr. Pratt's request that this gift be treated as an anonymous contribution to the University. The provisions of the gift are as follows

All funds, both principal and interest, are to be expended during a period of not less than fifteen years, nor more than twenty years. The exact period between these limits to be determined by the President of the University acting, from time to time, with the advice of the Chairman of the Department of Physics.

Fund A. This fund shall be created with 20% of the proceeds of this gift and shall be used to establish and support the Frank Smith Chair of Physics at the University of Virginia. The occupant of this chair shall be a senior man of the Department of Physics with distinguished attainment in the field of physics.

This fund shall provide a stipend of not less than Six Thousand Dollars ($6000) per year for the occupant of this chair. This stipend shall be a supplement to the regular salary provided by the State of Virginia to the member of the faculty of the Department of Physics.

Fund B. This fund shall be created from 4% of the proceeds of this gift.

The purpose of this fund is to make available to the Department of Physics assistance in attracting and keeping desirable Assistant and Associate Professors, through the supplementing of salaries, as may be determined by the President of the University with the advice of the Chairman of the Department of Physics.

Fund C. This fund shall be created from 10% of the proceeds of the gift and is for the purpose of providing exceptional equipment that may be required for special experiments that the head of the Department of Physics may request of the President of the University. It is understood, however, that the fund is not to be used to purchase general equipment for the Department of Physics.

Fund D. This fund is to be created with the remaining 66% of this gift, as a Scholarship Fund, and is to provide help in attracting to the University, outstanding students who wish to specialize further in physics.

It shall be used for both graduate and post-doctorate students.

The number of scholarships at any one time to be determined by the ability of the school to supply the right kind of training, and the availability of exceptional, high grade students. There shall be no compulsion to award scholarships any particular year unless there are exceptional high grade students available.

The stipend to be awarded for any scholarship to be determined by the President of the University. The stipend should be sufficient to obtain the high type of students desired by the Department of Physics.

A resolution was adopted accepting this generous gift, subject to the conditions set forth above

The following resolution, expressing appreciation of the Board to Mr. Pratt, was drafted by The Rector:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has learned with gratification of the gift of John Lee Pratt to the University of Virginia of stock aggregating in market value of over half a million dollars;

AND WHEREAS, this Board has accepted this gift subject to the conditions and for the purposes fully set out in the donor's letters to the President of the University of Virginia under date of January 6, 1953,

And with a full understanding of the deep interest in the advancement of science and of the great love for his Alma Mater which motivated John Lee Pratt in making this gift, as well as with a profound conception of the benefits to science and to society which may well result directly or indirectly therefrom;

NOW, THEREFORE, this Board hereby records its deep appreciation of the far-seeing generosity of John Lee Pratt.

To transfer the securities, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University that the President be authorized to sign Certificate No. A4221 of General Motors Shares, Inc., registered in the name of The Rector and Visitors, to transfer said shares to 8000 shares of General Motors Common Stock.

The President read the following letter from Mr. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University

Under date of December 15, 1952, Mr. Vincent Shea notified me that the Board of Visitors had asked for an opinion from me as Special Counsel for the University in regard to its authority to comply with a request made by Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago concerning disbursement of certain funds in the Estate of James Brandt Latimer for the use and benefit of his wife, Anne Mayo Latimer, life tenant under the trust created by his will.

Upon receipt of Mr. Shea's request I got in touch with Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and obtained from them copy of the will of James Brandt Mayo, copy of partial release of power of appointment executed by Anne Mayo Latimer on January 30, 1945, copy of letter from J. L. Newcomb, President of the University, addressed to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago dated January   , 1945, and copy of letter from Mrs. Anne Mayo Latimer to said Bank dated January 30, 1945, all of these papers being necessary in order to render an opinion on the matter requested by the Board. Mr. Perkins, at my request, has also talked over the telephone with Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond.

Rather than copy all of the papers above mentioned, I think it preferrable to set out a condensation of the facts in this case which appear to be as follows

James Brandt Latimer, husband of Anne Mayo Latimer, by his will, gave the residue of his estate to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company as Trustee, to invest and pay the income to Mrs. Latimer as long as she lived and at her death the principal is to pass to such persons as said Mrs. Latimer might, by her will, appoint. In default of such appointment, the will contains rather elaborate provisions for the continuation of the trust during the lifetime of other individuals named in the will and upon the death of the last survivor of all of said persons the whole trust estate shall pass to John Hopkins University in Baltimore.

Paragraph (g) of the FIFTH Article of the will provides that no property held by said Trustee shall be pledged, assigned, transferred, sold or in any manner whatsoever anticipated, charged or encumbered by any of the beneficiaries under the will or be in any manner liable in the possession of the Trustee for the debts or contracts of any of the beneficiaries.

Under date of January 30, 1945, Anne Mayo Latimer executed an irrevocable renunciation of all powers given her to appoint under said will except the power to appoint the First and Merchants Bank of Richmond as Trustee to be held by said Bank for ten years from date of Mrs. Latimer's death, accumulating the income and adding it to the principal and at the end of said ten years to pay the whole amount to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. And in a letter directed to Continental Illinois National Bank (our copy being dated January   , 1945) J. L. Newcomb, President, on behalf of the University of Virginia, consented to the Bank's use of $1,000.00 of the principal of said trust to pay hospital and medical expenses incurred by Mrs. Latimer.

And in consideration of this consent Mrs. Latimer addressed a letter to Continental Illinois Bank as Trustee, dated January 30, 1945, in which she states that in consideration of the Bank's applying said $1,000.00 to her hospital and doctor's bills, she is executing a release of her power of appointment except in favor of the University of Virginia and she further agrees that she will "by my last will and testament exercise the power of appointment retained by me in favor of said Bank as Trustee and said University".

On November 13, 1952, Mr. H. P. Blessing, Trust Officer of Continental Illinois Bank, addressed a letter to the University stating that Mrs. Latimer was incurably ill, that the doctors gave her three years at most to live, and that it was estimated that her hospital and medical expenses during that period may be as much as $30,000.00. He stated that the total trust fund is about $65,000.00 and asks that the University consent to the Trustee applying that amount for such purpose.

We are advised by Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond, that that Bank holds the original renunciation of Mrs. Latimer's power of appointment under her husband's will, and also has in its possession a will properly executed by her appointing the First and Merchants Bank Trustee to hold this fund on her death for the University of Virginia.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of December, 1952, the Board approved the recommendation of Continental Bank that the University release its right in a portion of the trust fund if Special Counsel for the University was of the opinion that such action on the part of the Board was legal.

Opinion

In my opinion, the validity of the renunciation of her general powers of appointment and the reservation by her of the special power of appointment for the benefit of The Rector and Visitors, executed by Mrs. Latimer on January 30, 1945, is governed by the laws of Illinois. However, I am of the opinion that the renunciation is valid under the Virginia as well as under the Illinois statute.

Apparently Mrs. Latimer has exercised the special power which she had reserved in favor of The Rector and Visitors but undoubtedly she can make another will if she desires to do so in which she does not exercise the special reserved power, or she can revoke her present will and die intestate. In either case, since there would be a default in appointment, the trust property would pass under the provisions of her husband's will in which case The Rector and Visitors would not participate.

In the event of Mrs. Latimer's failure to exercise the special reserved power, no action would lie on the part of The Rector and Visitors in Illinois (and probably not in Virginia) against the estate of James Brandt Latimer to enforce any agreement that Mrs. Latimer may have made to appoint to The Rector and Visitors, and Mr. Latimer's estate would pass to those who, in default of appointment, are entitled thereto under his will.

In this event the University's only recourse would be to sue Mrs. Latimer's personal representative under the contract set out in Mrs. Latimer's letter to Continental Illinois Bank dated January 30, 1945. Mr. Baskerville tells us that Mrs. Latimer has some estate of her own but he did not feel at liberty to disclose any details and we infer from what he says that it is not large.

Could the contract contained in letter from Mrs. Latimer dated January 30, 1945, be enforced? Was there any real consideration given by the University for Mrs. Latimer's agreement?

I am of the opinion that the consent by the University of the expenditure of $1,000.00 from the principal of the trust fund was not a valuable consideration for the execution of the contract by Mrs. Latimer. The University did not pay the money from its own funds and merely consented to the use of funds in which it had no interest at the time its consent was given. It follows, therefore, that the contract, lacking consideration, is unenforceable.

While it is a fundamental principle that the Board of Visitors cannot relinquish any rights or surrender any property held by it for the State of Virginia, it is an equally fundamental principle that the Board has the right to compromise and settle doubtful claims.

In this case, the University's right ultimately to receive an estate of some $65,000.00 under the special power of appointment in Mrs. Latimer's existing will, is based upon a contract which I do not think enforceable. It would follow, therefore, that The Rector and Visitors, in order to receive anything from Mrs. Latimer would be wise as a matter of policy to consent to the request of Mrs. Latimer for the expenditure of $30,000.00 for her use and benefit primarily for medical attention and hospitalization. Such action on the part of The Rector and Visitors would, in my opinion, be justified under the power to compromise a doubtful claim. Any consent by The Rector and Visitors should be conditioned upon Court approval being obtained by Continental Illinois Bank for the disbursement of the funds above referred to.

The President pointed out that the Board had adopted a resolution at its December meeting approving the expenditure of these funds, subject to legal clearance by Mr. Minor.

Action on this report, which had been deferred from the previous day, was postponed until the February meeting.

Mr. Black said that he had received a call from President Combs of Mary Washington, requesting that the February meeting of the Board of Visitors be held on the 21st instead of the 14th, as bids on the new dormitory were due on the 19th. Dr. Combs desires approval of these bids as soon as possible with the hope that the new building might be ready by the start of the 1953-54 session. After discussing the matter, a resolution was adopted empowering the Executive Committee of the Board to accept the bids and award the contract, subject to approval by the Governor.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Under date of December 15, 1952, Mr. Vincent Shea notified me that the Board of Visitors had asked for an opinion from me as Special Counsel for the University in regard to its authority to comply with a request made by Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago concerning disbursement of certain funds in the Estate of James Brandt Latimer for the use and benefit of his wife, Anne Mayo Latimer, life tenant under the trust created by his will.

Upon receipt of Mr. Shea's request I got in touch with Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and obtained from them copy of the will of James Brandt Mayo, copy of partial release of power of appointment executed by Anne Mayo Latimer on January 30, 1945, copy of letter from J. L. Newcomb, President of the University, addressed to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago dated January   , 1945, and copy of letter from Mrs. Anne Mayo Latimer to said Bank dated January 30, 1945, all of these papers being necessary in order to render an opinion on the matter requested by the Board. Mr. Perkins, at my request, has also talked over the telephone with Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond.

Rather than copy all of the papers above mentioned, I think it preferrable to set out a condensation of the facts in this case which appear to be as follows

James Brandt Latimer, husband of Anne Mayo Latimer, by his will, gave the residue of his estate to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company as Trustee, to invest and pay the income to Mrs. Latimer as long as she lived and at her death the principal is to pass to such persons as said Mrs. Latimer might, by her will, appoint. In default of such appointment, the will contains rather elaborate provisions for the continuation of the trust during the lifetime of other individuals named in the will and upon the death of the last survivor of all of said persons the whole trust estate shall pass to John Hopkins University in Baltimore.

Paragraph (g) of the FIFTH Article of the will provides that no property held by said Trustee shall be pledged, assigned, transferred, sold or in any manner whatsoever anticipated, charged or encumbered by any of the beneficiaries under the will or be in any manner liable in the possession of the Trustee for the debts or contracts of any of the beneficiaries.

Under date of January 30, 1945, Anne Mayo Latimer executed an irrevocable renunciation of all powers given her to appoint under said will except the power to appoint the First and Merchants Bank of Richmond as Trustee to be held by said Bank for ten years from date of Mrs. Latimer's death, accumulating the income and adding it to the principal and at the end of said ten years to pay the whole amount to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. And in a letter directed to Continental Illinois National Bank (our copy being dated January   , 1945) J. L. Newcomb, President, on behalf of the University of Virginia, consented to the Bank's use of $1,000.00 of the principal of said trust to pay hospital and medical expenses incurred by Mrs. Latimer.

And in consideration of this consent Mrs. Latimer addressed a letter to Continental Illinois Bank as Trustee, dated January 30, 1945, in which she states that in consideration of the Bank's applying said $1,000.00 to her hospital and doctor's bills, she is executing a release of her power of appointment except in favor of the University of Virginia and she further agrees that she will "by my last will and testament exercise the power of appointment retained by me in favor of said Bank as Trustee and said University".

On November 13, 1952, Mr. H. P. Blessing, Trust Officer of Continental Illinois Bank, addressed a letter to the University stating that Mrs. Latimer was incurably ill, that the doctors gave her three years at most to live, and that it was estimated that her hospital and medical expenses during that period may be as much as $30,000.00. He stated that the total trust fund is about $65,000.00 and asks that the University consent to the Trustee applying that amount for such purpose.

We are advised by Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond, that that Bank holds the original renunciation of Mrs. Latimer's power of appointment under her husband's will, and also has in its possession a will properly executed by her appointing the First and Merchants Bank Trustee to hold this fund on her death for the University of Virginia.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of December, 1952, the Board approved the recommendation of Continental Bank that the University release its right in a portion of the trust fund if Special Counsel for the University was of the opinion that such action on the part of the Board was legal.

Opinion

In my opinion, the validity of the renunciation of her general powers of appointment and the reservation by her of the special power of appointment for the benefit of The Rector and Visitors, executed by Mrs. Latimer on January 30, 1945, is governed by the laws of Illinois. However, I am of the opinion that the renunciation is valid under the Virginia as well as under the Illinois statute.

Apparently Mrs. Latimer has exercised the special power which she had reserved in favor of The Rector and Visitors but undoubtedly she can make another will if she desires to do so in which she does not exercise the special reserved power, or she can revoke her present will and die intestate. In either case, since there would be a default in appointment, the trust property would pass under the provisions of her husband's will in which case The Rector and Visitors would not participate.

In the event of Mrs. Latimer's failure to exercise the special reserved power, no action would lie on the part of The Rector and Visitors in Illinois (and probably not in Virginia) against the estate of James Brandt Latimer to enforce any agreement that Mrs. Latimer may have made to appoint to The Rector and Visitors, and Mr. Latimer's estate would pass to those who, in default of appointment, are entitled thereto under his will.

In this event the University's only recourse would be to sue Mrs. Latimer's personal representative under the contract set out in Mrs. Latimer's letter to Continental Illinois Bank dated January 30, 1945. Mr. Baskerville tells us that Mrs. Latimer has some estate of her own but he did not feel at liberty to disclose any details and we infer from what he says that it is not large.

Could the contract contained in letter from Mrs. Latimer dated January 30, 1945, be enforced? Was there any real consideration given by the University for Mrs. Latimer's agreement?

I am of the opinion that the consent by the University of the expenditure of $1,000.00 from the principal of the trust fund was not a valuable consideration for the execution of the contract by Mrs. Latimer. The University did not pay the money from its own funds and merely consented to the use of funds in which it had no interest at the time its consent was given. It follows, therefore, that the contract, lacking consideration, is unenforceable.

While it is a fundamental principle that the Board of Visitors cannot relinquish any rights or surrender any property held by it for the State of Virginia, it is an equally fundamental principle that the Board has the right to compromise and settle doubtful claims.

In this case, the University's right ultimately to receive an estate of some $65,000.00 under the special power of appointment in Mrs. Latimer's existing will, is based upon a contract which I do not think enforceable. It would follow, therefore, that The Rector and Visitors, in order to receive anything from Mrs. Latimer would be wise as a matter of policy to consent to the request of Mrs. Latimer for the expenditure of $30,000.00 for her use and benefit primarily for medical attention and hospitalization. Such action on the part of The Rector and Visitors would, in my opinion, be justified under the power to compromise a doubtful claim. Any consent by The Rector and Visitors should be conditioned upon Court approval being obtained by Continental Illinois Bank for the disbursement of the funds above referred to.

Under date of December 15, 1952, Mr. Vincent Shea notified me that the Board of Visitors had asked for an opinion from me as Special Counsel for the University in regard to its authority to comply with a request made by Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago concerning disbursement of certain funds in the Estate of James Brandt Latimer for the use and benefit of his wife, Anne Mayo Latimer, life tenant under the trust created by his will.

Upon receipt of Mr. Shea's request I got in touch with Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago and obtained from them copy of the will of James Brandt Mayo, copy of partial release of power of appointment executed by Anne Mayo Latimer on January 30, 1945, copy of letter from J. L. Newcomb, President of the University, addressed to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago dated January   , 1945, and copy of letter from Mrs. Anne Mayo Latimer to said Bank dated January 30, 1945, all of these papers being necessary in order to render an opinion on the matter requested by the Board. Mr. Perkins, at my request, has also talked over the telephone with Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond.

Rather than copy all of the papers above mentioned, I think it preferrable to set out a condensation of the facts in this case which appear to be as follows

James Brandt Latimer, husband of Anne Mayo Latimer, by his will, gave the residue of his estate to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company as Trustee, to invest and pay the income to Mrs. Latimer as long as she lived and at her death the principal is to pass to such persons as said Mrs. Latimer might, by her will, appoint. In default of such appointment, the will contains rather elaborate provisions for the continuation of the trust during the lifetime of other individuals named in the will and upon the death of the last survivor of all of said persons the whole trust estate shall pass to John Hopkins University in Baltimore.

Paragraph (g) of the FIFTH Article of the will provides that no property held by said Trustee shall be pledged, assigned, transferred, sold or in any manner whatsoever anticipated, charged or encumbered by any of the beneficiaries under the will or be in any manner liable in the possession of the Trustee for the debts or contracts of any of the beneficiaries.

Under date of January 30, 1945, Anne Mayo Latimer executed an irrevocable renunciation of all powers given her to appoint under said will except the power to appoint the First and Merchants Bank of Richmond as Trustee to be held by said Bank for ten years from date of Mrs. Latimer's death, accumulating the income and adding it to the principal and at the end of said ten years to pay the whole amount to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. And in a letter directed to Continental Illinois National Bank (our copy being dated January   , 1945) J. L. Newcomb, President, on behalf of the University of Virginia, consented to the Bank's use of $1,000.00 of the principal of said trust to pay hospital and medical expenses incurred by Mrs. Latimer.

And in consideration of this consent Mrs. Latimer addressed a letter to Continental Illinois Bank as Trustee, dated January 30, 1945, in which she states that in consideration of the Bank's applying said $1,000.00 to her hospital and doctor's bills, she is executing a release of her power of appointment except in favor of the University of Virginia and she further agrees that she will "by my last will and testament exercise the power of appointment retained by me in favor of said Bank as Trustee and said University".

On November 13, 1952, Mr. H. P. Blessing, Trust Officer of Continental Illinois Bank, addressed a letter to the University stating that Mrs. Latimer was incurably ill, that the doctors gave her three years at most to live, and that it was estimated that her hospital and medical expenses during that period may be as much as $30,000.00. He stated that the total trust fund is about $65,000.00 and asks that the University consent to the Trustee applying that amount for such purpose.

We are advised by Mr. J. H. Baskerville, Trust Officer of First and Merchants National Bank of Richmond, that that Bank holds the original renunciation of Mrs. Latimer's power of appointment under her husband's will, and also has in its possession a will properly executed by her appointing the First and Merchants Bank Trustee to hold this fund on her death for the University of Virginia.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors held on the 12th of December, 1952, the Board approved the recommendation of Continental Bank that the University release its right in a portion of the trust fund if Special Counsel for the University was of the opinion that such action on the part of the Board was legal.

Opinion

In my opinion, the validity of the renunciation of her general powers of appointment and the reservation by her of the special power of appointment for the benefit of The Rector and Visitors, executed by Mrs. Latimer on January 30, 1945, is governed by the laws of Illinois. However, I am of the opinion that the renunciation is valid under the Virginia as well as under the Illinois statute.

Apparently Mrs. Latimer has exercised the special power which she had reserved in favor of The Rector and Visitors but undoubtedly she can make another will if she desires to do so in which she does not exercise the special reserved power, or she can revoke her present will and die intestate. In either case, since there would be a default in appointment, the trust property would pass under the provisions of her husband's will in which case The Rector and Visitors would not participate.

In the event of Mrs. Latimer's failure to exercise the special reserved power, no action would lie on the part of The Rector and Visitors in Illinois (and probably not in Virginia) against the estate of James Brandt Latimer to enforce any agreement that Mrs. Latimer may have made to appoint to The Rector and Visitors, and Mr. Latimer's estate would pass to those who, in default of appointment, are entitled thereto under his will.

In this event the University's only recourse would be to sue Mrs. Latimer's personal representative under the contract set out in Mrs. Latimer's letter to Continental Illinois Bank dated January 30, 1945. Mr. Baskerville tells us that Mrs. Latimer has some estate of her own but he did not feel at liberty to disclose any details and we infer from what he says that it is not large.

Could the contract contained in letter from Mrs. Latimer dated January 30, 1945, be enforced? Was there any real consideration given by the University for Mrs. Latimer's agreement?

I am of the opinion that the consent by the University of the expenditure of $1,000.00 from the principal of the trust fund was not a valuable consideration for the execution of the contract by Mrs. Latimer. The University did not pay the money from its own funds and merely consented to the use of funds in which it had no interest at the time its consent was given. It follows, therefore, that the contract, lacking consideration, is unenforceable.

While it is a fundamental principle that the Board of Visitors cannot relinquish any rights or surrender any property held by it for the State of Virginia, it is an equally fundamental principle that the Board has the right to compromise and settle doubtful claims.

In this case, the University's right ultimately to receive an estate of some $65,000.00 under the special power of appointment in Mrs. Latimer's existing will, is based upon a contract which I do not think enforceable. It would follow, therefore, that The Rector and Visitors, in order to receive anything from Mrs. Latimer would be wise as a matter of policy to consent to the request of Mrs. Latimer for the expenditure of $30,000.00 for her use and benefit primarily for medical attention and hospitalization. Such action on the part of The Rector and Visitors would, in my opinion, be justified under the power to compromise a doubtful claim. Any consent by The Rector and Visitors should be conditioned upon Court approval being obtained by Continental Illinois Bank for the disbursement of the funds above referred to.
