---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1953'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEESGIFTSRETIREMENTSDEATH OF DR. GORDON AND DR. CARTERLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSELECTIONSPROMOTIONSVILLANO LAMBETHCONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FUNDDiversification of Assets (Book Value)UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSFACULTY INSURANCE PROPOSALBLUE CROSSTHETA CHI FRATERNITY REQUESTSTUDENT AFFILIATION FEEMILLER SCHOOL - LEASE OF BOILERCOLLEGE COMMITTEE ON REORGANIZATIONUNIVERSITY BUDGETUNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGETENDOWMENT FUNDATHLETIC GRANTS-IN-AIDATLANTIC ATHLETIC CONFERENCEJULY MEETING OF THE BOARDEMERGENCY APPOINTMENTS TO THE FACULTYMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE BUDGET
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance Committee

Mr. Gay, Chairman

Mr. Mears

Mr. Talbott

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

Mrs. Wailes

Mary Washington College Committee

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Mr. Howard

Athletic Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Gay

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Mears

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Smith

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Smith

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

Judge Barksdale

From the Seven Society, for the President's Discretionary Fund.

$ 77.00

From Professor Atcheson L. Hench, collection of nine thousand papers to the Alderman Library, valued at

880.00

From various sources, contributions to the Institute of Public Affairs

3,048.73

From the estate of the late L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

2,500.00

From the Eli Lilly Company, for a graduate student fellowship in the Department of Physiology, for one year

2,700.00

From various sources, contributions to the John C. Metcalf Memorial Fund

1,746.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research in astronomy by Dr. H. L. Alden

2,420.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in chemistry under Professor Thomas Crowell, for one year beginning June 15, 1953

3,897.23

January 25, 1952

January 25, 1953

Bonds

$2,519,552.47

43.6%

$2,705,155.47

43.9%

Preferred Stocks

887,754.81

15.4%

826,763.65

13.4%

Common Stocks

2,367,673.89

41.0%

2,580,861.02

41.9%

Sundry Assets

16,424.80

.3%

Cash

206.19

27,830.01

.5%

$5,775,187.36

100.0%

$6,157,034.95

100.0%

Age

Number of "Units of Insurance

35 and under

2

36 through 50

2½

51 through 65

3

Age

Guaranteed Insurance

Additional Insurance at the 1951 Dividend Rate (Not Guaranteed)

Total Coverage if 1951 Dividend Paid

25

$ 6,740

3,370

$ 10,110

35

4,400

2,200

6,600

36

5,225

2,612

7,837

45

3,025

1,512

4,537

50

2,150

1,075

3,225

51

2,400

1,200

3,600

60

1,260

630

1,890

65

840

420

1,260

Age

Number Eligible

Coverage

Total Annual Cost for 100% Participation

35 and under

104

2 units

$ 2,496

36 through 50

147

2½ units

4,410

51 through 65

105

3 units

3,780

Total

356

$11,086

For 100% participation

$5,543

For 75% participation

4,157

For 100% participation

$4,631

For 75% participation

3,473

The annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wailes. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President, Mary Washington College, Visitors. Talbott and Wheeler.

The minutes of the meeting of May 8, 1953, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved

The Rector reappointed the following standing committees

The Board re-elected the Executive Committee as follows: The Rector, Mr. Black, Chairman, Mr. Gay, Mr. Carrington, and Mr. Mears.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants.

The following are retiring at the end of the session of 1952-53

Dr. Ivey F. Lewis, Dean of the University since 1934, Dean of the College since 1946, and Professor of Biology since 1915. The Rector was asked to prepare an appropriate resolution on Dean Lewis' retirement.

Dr. F. K. Mohr, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages, who has been on the staff of the University since 1926.

Dr. Armistead C. Gordon, Jr., Professor of English, died May 13, 1953. He had been on the staff of the University since 1919

Dr. Gardner L. Carter, former Professor of Chemistry, who had resigned his position at the end of the session of 1951-52, because of ill health, died May 12, 1953. He had been on the staff of the University since 1918

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. John F. Gange, Professor of Foreign Affairs, be and he is hereby granted part-time leave of absence for the session of 1953-54, to become Executive Director of the American Political Science Association. He will receive a salary of $2,000 from the University for the session.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Assistant Professor of History, for the first semester of the session of 1953-54, to go abroad

Dr. Douglas Bragdon, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for military duty, effective June 30, 1953.

Dr. A. A. Hill, Professor of the English Language, which leave was granted for the session of 1952-53, be and it is hereby continued for the session of 1953-54.

Mr. Truman A. Botts, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the academic year 1953-54, to accept a Ford Foundation grant

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following staff members be and they are hereby accepted. We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

Dr. Victor L. Klee, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, as of August 15, 1953.

Mr. Paul L. Weis, Acting Assistant Professor of Geology, as of the end of the session of 1952-53, to work for the U. S. Geological Survey.

Miss Sue Craig, Acting Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, effective July 1, 1953, to accept a position at Paine College, Augusta, Georgia.

Mr. Norman C. Small, Assistant Professor of Applied Mechanics, as of the end of the session of 1952-53, to resume work toward the Ph.D. degree at Brown University.

Miss Naomi M. Coffman, Instructor in Nursing, as of September 1, 1952.

Miss Mary Francis Fulton, Instructor in Nursing, as of June 15, 1953.

Miss Mary Jane Morris, Instructor in Nursing, as of October 15, 1953.

Mrs. Mary J. K. Wilhoit, Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of January 1, 1953.

Miss Suzanne J. Glass, Instructor in Nursing, as of September 1, 1952.

Mrs. Barbara S. Ford, Instructor in Nursing, as of August 1, 1952.

Mrs. Belle M. Woodson, Instructor in Nursing, as of December 7, 1952.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Eugene D. Brand, as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, as of September 1, 1953, at a salary of $4,600.

Dr. John S. Plaskett, as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $5,000.

Miss Santina Ciatto, as Instructor in Nursing, as of June 10, 1953, at an annual salary of $3,092.

Miss Amelia Lipchak, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of July 1, 1953, at an annual salary of $3,536.

Mr. Almand R. Coleman, as Lecturer in the School of Business Administration, for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $1,500.

Mr. Asa Alan Humphries, Jr., as Instructor in Anatomy, as of September 1, 1953, at a salary of $4,000.

Dr. Raymond Herbert Stokes, as Instructor in Clinical Pathology, as of July 1, 1953, at a salary of $3,600.

Dr. Leroy F. Meyers, as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $3,800.

Mr. Walter Gordon Marigold, as Acting Assistant Professor of German for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $3,800.

Mr. Thaddeus Constantine Lockard, Jr., as Instructor in English, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $3,000.

Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., as Instructor in Music as of the beginning of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $3,600.

Dr. Warren L. Smith, as Assistant Professor of Money and Banking, at a salary of $4,050, as of September, 1953

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Dr. B. J. Ball, Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54.

Dr. Nicolas Cabrera, Visiting Associate Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54.

Mr. Lionel Weiss, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54.

Dr. John W. Eldridge, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54.

Dr. Clifford M. Siegel, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective at the beginning of the session of 1953-54

Mrs. W. A. Lambeth appeared before the Board and offered to substitute for her husband's bequest of his residence, a gift to the University of $30,000. Mr. Thomas Wyllie read a statement for Mrs. Lambeth, which was filed with the secretary.

Action on this matter was deferred.

Mr. Harvey Wilkerson and Mr. L. B. Gunn of the State Planter's Bank, appeared before the Board to review the Bank's handling of the Consolidated Endowment Fund during the year ending January 25, 1953.

Mr. Gunn pointed out the highlights of the year as summarized in the report of the Finance Committee. Mr. Wilkerson pointed out that in the present state of the money market, they would not recommend that we increase our holdings of common stocks. They believe that we could purchase bonds at the present at very advantageous rates.

Upon completion of their comments, the Board adopted a resolution accepting the report of the Finance Committee, as set forth below.

There is submitted herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds, submitted by the State Planters Bank and Trust Company, for the period January 25, 1952, to January 25, 1953. It will be noted that the Fund had a book value as of January 25, 1952, of $5,775,187.36, that cash and security values added during the year have increased the book value of the Fund to $6,157,034.95 as of January 25, 1953.

There have been sales, redemptions, etc., of securities during the year in the amount of $486,940.50, while investments and/or reinvestments through purchases, conversions and subscriptions amount to $810,864.73.

The gross adjusted income for the 12-month period amounted to $285,859.55 which, when related to the average book value during the year 1952 (weighted average by months) represented a yield of 4.87. This rate compares with an average yield of 4.61 for 1951 and 4.77 for 1950. The Bank points out that this improved yield for 1952 was due partly to the increased dividends received on oil, banking and utility common stocks, and partly to the fact that many of the lower yielding bonds were not purchased until late in the year. It is estimated that the current yield on the investments which now constitute the Fund is approximately 4.69% of the present book value of $6,157,034.95, or 3.99% of the current market value of $7,232,766.97.

It is also to be noted that the Bank turned over to the Bursar during the course of the year an aggregate of $273,708.75 net income after all deductions and expenses which (with those accruing in respect to the three subsidiary accounts) was approximately 2/100 of 1% of the average book value, and included the services of custody, collection of income, monthly statements of the Bursar and the Finance Committee, as well as general financial supervision and review.

There appears on page 4, a statement showing the diversification of securities in which the Funds are invested which appears to your Committee to be conservative and in line with prudent investment practices

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 363, 366, and 367, aggregating $64,494.85, recommended by them for cancellation.

President Darden reported that the finances of the hospital were in much better shape than had been anticipated earlier in the year. He pointed out that the original budget projected a deficit of $318,000. The Governor was quite concerned and, after a study had been completed by the State Auditor, a revised budget was prepared with a deficit of $189,000, which the Governor authorized. Now we believe we will finish the year without any deficit. This has been accomplished by a tough admissions and collection program, and by tight control of expenditures.

The President also pointed out that a committee set up by the State Legislature to study indigent care has completed its report and he believes that the hospitals will receive more help from the Legislature and the counties, through proposed legislation.

The President presented the following proposal from the Committee on Contractual Relations which was approved by the Board as submitted:

"The Committee on Contractual Relations proposes that a plan be adopted to cover the lives of all full-time teaching personnel and administrative and research personnel Grade 8 and above who are age 65 and under. The insurance coverage after age 65 does not seem worthwhile, and a substantial death benefit will have been built up in the annuity contract. While participation in the insurance plan is optional for present staff members who are eligible, once the plan is established, all those who subsequently become members of the eligible class must take the insurance, and it is felt that most of those over 65 will not prefer to pay for the relatively small coverage afforded by the group insurance.

It is proposed that the amount of coverage be as follows

For selected ages, this would provide the following insurance coverage

An estimate of the annual cost of the proposed plan is shown below

One-half of the cost is borne by the insured staff-member, who would pay 50 cents per month per "unit" of coverage.

The cost to the University would depend upon the age distribution of those who elect to come into the plan. The University's share of the annual cost would be.

The University's share may be reduced by prepayment of premium to.

To conform to requirements of the Teachers' Insurance and Annuity Association, a formal resolution will be submitted to the Board at a later date.

The President reported that the Virginia Hospital Service Association was offering a revision in its contract, effective July 1, 1953, which would enable a member hospital to receive 100% of its reimbursable costs provided they did not exceed 110% of the average cost of member hospitals and, in addition, the hospital could retain the difference between the average semi-private room charge and the amount charged each Blue Cross patient electing a private room.

Mrs. Smith, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, presented a request of the Theta Chi Fraternity for an amendment to their present lease of University land, to increase the area by 40 feet on the south side of the house to make it possible for them to construct an addition. A resolution was adopted approving the request under the same conditions as the original grant, subject to proper preparation of the lease by the University Attorney.

President Darden pointed out to the Board that at the July, 1952 meeting, the Board approved the imposition of a $5.00 student affiliation fee which was designed to cover all expenses of graduation. Included in the amount collected was to be the first year's dues in the Alumni Association. The proposal for this fee had been submitted by the officers of the Class of 1952, and approved by the Managers of the Alumni Association.

The Board of Managers of the Alumni Association has found that this resolution is contrary to its by-laws and has requested the University to discontinue collecting that part of the student affiliation fee to be used for first year membership in the Alumni Association. A resolution was adopted reducing the student affiliation fee from $5.00 to $4.00, with the stipulation that the payment to the Alumni Association of a student's dues for the first year be discontinued from the fee collected.

President Darden pointed out that the University several years ago had secured a boiler through war surplus from the Federal Government, which had been used to heat the men's dormitories during the session 1950-51 before the heating tunnels could be completed from the power plant to these dormitories. This boiler was no longer needed and the Miller School was most desirous of securing it for a gymnasium which it now has under construction. Because of the difficulty of selling war surplus, the President recommended that we lease it to them at $1.00 per year, with the stipulation that they return it upon demand. This recommendation was approved by the Board.

The President stated that with the retirement of Dean Lewis he thought it an appropriate time to study the curriculum of the College. Several months ago he appointed the following committee to make such a study, and also to recommend a successor to the Dean. Professor Geldard, Chairman, Professors Gooch, Shepperson, Stevenson, Runk, and Weedon. He said he believed the committee would bring in its recommendations sometime next fall but, in the meantime, it would be necessary to appoint an acting dean as in all likelihood the new dean could not assume office prior to the 1954-55 session. The Board approved a resolution authorizing the President to appoint an acting dean of the College to serve until a permanent dean has been chosen.

Mr. Gay, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the budget of the University for the fiscal year 1953-54, which was approved by the Board. Total revenues are estimated at $5,569,635, and expenditures at $5,537,535, leaving a surplus of $32,100

Mr. Gay presented the hospital budget, which was approved by the Board. Total budgeted revenues from all sources, and projected expenditures amount to $3,124,230

At the April meeting of the Board, a letter from Mr. Bradford, Director of the Budget, had been referred to the Finance Committee for recommendation to the Board. After discussion of the matter, Mr. Gay was asked to confer with the members of the Board of Visitors of the Medical College of Virginia, and to advise the Board at its next meeting.

The Board had before it the tentative report of the Athletic Committee, submitted April 10, 1953, together with an amendment to provision no. 4 of the proposal of the Student Aid Foundation, as drawn up by Mr. Frank Rogers of the Student Aid Foundation. This suggestion of the Student Aid Foundation is as follows

"(4) All grants shall be conditioned upon the beneficiary's doing all within his power as a student at the University to promote its welfare, to comply with its regulations and traditions and to participate in any form of collegiate activity for which, in the opinion of the official in charge of such activity, he may possess special aptitude. Failure to win a position on an athletic team or in any other student activity shall not be considered a breach of the condition of the award, provided the beneficiary has done his best to make good in the activity in which he has been requested to participate. This provision does contemplate that the beneficiary of the grant will preserve his eligibility, scholastic and otherwise, to compete in intercollegiate or other events for which he may possess special aptitude, but incapacity because of physical injury or other disability shall not affect the grant. No grant may be revoked, suspended or reduced in amount without notice to the beneficiary and an opportunity to present to the Bursar evidence in his own behalf. From any adverse decision of the Bursar, the beneficiary may appeal to the Board or to any committee of the Board designated by it to finally pass upon such appeals."

Mr. Tebell, Director of Athletics, was invited to join the Board and comment on this proposed amendment. He stated that he objected to two items in this section. His first objection was to the provision that stipulated that a coach can require a student to participate in a sport, and second, he objected to the provision which stated that a grant could be taken away from a boy if he is not doing his best in the eyes of the coach.

Mr. Tebell stated that he had consulted Mr. Clarence P. Miles, Regional Representative of the NCAA, concerning this amendment. Mr. Miles had stated that he did not believe that this proposed amendment would conform to the regulations of the NCAA. It was his belief that such matters should be covered in a student's application for a grant.

After further discussion, the report of the Athletic Committee of April 10, 1953, was adopted, as set forth below

The undersigned committee recommends that the following be stated as the policy of the University concerning grants-in-aid to students from funds supplied by the University of Virginia Alumni Association or the Virginia Student Aid Foundation:

1\. The purpose of the named organizations to provide funds for the education of qualified students is recognized and considered to be desirable.

2\. Funds or securities provided for such grants-in-aid shall be deposited with the Bursar of the University, and after acceptance as hereinafter provided, shall be applied by him toward payment of University fees and the reasonable cost of board, room, laundry and books incurred by students to whom award shall be made

3\. The Committee on Scholarships, Loans, and Employment will have responsibility to make all such awards upon nominations of the donors, respectively. If any nominee is rejected by the Committee, it may not make an award to another not so nominated.

4\. Funds deposited with the Bursar unexpended and uncommitted for grants-in-aid shall be refunded to the donor by the Bursar, on written request therefor.

5\. Awards shall be available only to students in good academic standing and prospective students, but conditioned as to the latter upon their meeting established entrance requirements.

6\. Such grants-in-aid shall be awarded and administered in strict compliance with the rules and regulations of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

7\. The Board of Visitors will, by resolution, accept funds or securities deposited with the Bursar, by the donors respectively, for disposition under the conditions here specified.

Mr. Tebell stated that the University had been invited to join a new athletic conference composed of seven schools - North Carolina, North Carolina State, Duke, Wake Forest, Maryland, South Carolina, and Clemson. Mr. Tebell recommended that the University join this new conference for the following reasons

1\. We have been a "lone wolf" too long.

2\. Scheduling is getting more difficult.

3\. Students prefer a conference school.

4\. If we join now, we can participate in setting up rules which we could all live by.

5\. For economic reasons, we need football games which will draw crowds to support all of our athletic program.

6\. The publicity and prestige for the players which conference membership would bring.

After further discussion, the Rector thanked Mr. Tebell, who left the meeting.

The President was asked to comment on the proposed conference. He stated that the Advisory Council on Athletics has recommended that we join. He has talked on the telephone with President Gordon Gray of the University of North Carolina, and President Hollis Edens of Duke. They would both like to see Virginia a member of the conference. The President recommended that the Board authorize him to work with the Presidents of the seven institutions mentioned above in an effort to establish a new conference and to draw up appropriate rules and regulations to govern it, with the stipulation, however, that before the University could enter, such rules and regulations must be submitted to the Board of Visitors.

A resolution was adopted authorizing the President to carry out his recommendations, and The Rector was requested to call a special meeting of the Board to consider the matter, should this be necessary.

Because of the strong possibility of a special meeting, a resolution was adopted dispensing with the regular meeting of the Board in July.

The President was authorized, by appropriate resolution, to make such emergency appointments during the summer months as were necessary, which appointments would be reported to the Board at its September meeting.

Mr. Gay, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the Mary Washington College budget, which was approved by the Board.

In recommending approval to the Board, Mr. Gay stated that he thought he should point out that he did not feel the salary scale at Mary Washington College was adequate. He would like to see the salary scale at Mary Washington more closely approximate the University salary scale, where the teaching is comparable.

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman of the Mary Washington Committee, stated that her committee was studying this matter, but that the present scale is fixed by the State.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

There is submitted herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds, submitted by the State Planters Bank and Trust Company, for the period January 25, 1952, to January 25, 1953. It will be noted that the Fund had a book value as of January 25, 1952, of $5,775,187.36, that cash and security values added during the year have increased the book value of the Fund to $6,157,034.95 as of January 25, 1953.

There have been sales, redemptions, etc., of securities during the year in the amount of $486,940.50, while investments and/or reinvestments through purchases, conversions and subscriptions amount to $810,864.73.

The gross adjusted income for the 12-month period amounted to $285,859.55 which, when related to the average book value during the year 1952 (weighted average by months) represented a yield of 4.87. This rate compares with an average yield of 4.61 for 1951 and 4.77 for 1950. The Bank points out that this improved yield for 1952 was due partly to the increased dividends received on oil, banking and utility common stocks, and partly to the fact that many of the lower yielding bonds were not purchased until late in the year. It is estimated that the current yield on the investments which now constitute the Fund is approximately 4.69% of the present book value of $6,157,034.95, or 3.99% of the current market value of $7,232,766.97.

It is also to be noted that the Bank turned over to the Bursar during the course of the year an aggregate of $273,708.75 net income after all deductions and expenses which (with those accruing in respect to the three subsidiary accounts) was approximately 2/100 of 1% of the average book value, and included the services of custody, collection of income, monthly statements of the Bursar and the Finance Committee, as well as general financial supervision and review.

There appears on page 4, a statement showing the diversification of securities in which the Funds are invested which appears to your Committee to be conservative and in line with prudent investment practices

The undersigned committee recommends that the following be stated as the policy of the University concerning grants-in-aid to students from funds supplied by the University of Virginia Alumni Association or the Virginia Student Aid Foundation:

1\. The purpose of the named organizations to provide funds for the education of qualified students is recognized and considered to be desirable.

2\. Funds or securities provided for such grants-in-aid shall be deposited with the Bursar of the University, and after acceptance as hereinafter provided, shall be applied by him toward payment of University fees and the reasonable cost of board, room, laundry and books incurred by students to whom award shall be made

3\. The Committee on Scholarships, Loans, and Employment will have responsibility to make all such awards upon nominations of the donors, respectively. If any nominee is rejected by the Committee, it may not make an award to another not so nominated.

4\. Funds deposited with the Bursar unexpended and uncommitted for grants-in-aid shall be refunded to the donor by the Bursar, on written request therefor.

5\. Awards shall be available only to students in good academic standing and prospective students, but conditioned as to the latter upon their meeting established entrance requirements.

6\. Such grants-in-aid shall be awarded and administered in strict compliance with the rules and regulations of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

7\. The Board of Visitors will, by resolution, accept funds or securities deposited with the Bursar, by the donors respectively, for disposition under the conditions here specified.

There is submitted herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds, submitted by the State Planters Bank and Trust Company, for the period January 25, 1952, to January 25, 1953. It will be noted that the Fund had a book value as of January 25, 1952, of $5,775,187.36, that cash and security values added during the year have increased the book value of the Fund to $6,157,034.95 as of January 25, 1953.

There have been sales, redemptions, etc., of securities during the year in the amount of $486,940.50, while investments and/or reinvestments through purchases, conversions and subscriptions amount to $810,864.73.

The gross adjusted income for the 12-month period amounted to $285,859.55 which, when related to the average book value during the year 1952 (weighted average by months) represented a yield of 4.87. This rate compares with an average yield of 4.61 for 1951 and 4.77 for 1950. The Bank points out that this improved yield for 1952 was due partly to the increased dividends received on oil, banking and utility common stocks, and partly to the fact that many of the lower yielding bonds were not purchased until late in the year. It is estimated that the current yield on the investments which now constitute the Fund is approximately 4.69% of the present book value of $6,157,034.95, or 3.99% of the current market value of $7,232,766.97.

It is also to be noted that the Bank turned over to the Bursar during the course of the year an aggregate of $273,708.75 net income after all deductions and expenses which (with those accruing in respect to the three subsidiary accounts) was approximately 2/100 of 1% of the average book value, and included the services of custody, collection of income, monthly statements of the Bursar and the Finance Committee, as well as general financial supervision and review.

There appears on page 4, a statement showing the diversification of securities in which the Funds are invested which appears to your Committee to be conservative and in line with prudent investment practices

The undersigned committee recommends that the following be stated as the policy of the University concerning grants-in-aid to students from funds supplied by the University of Virginia Alumni Association or the Virginia Student Aid Foundation:

1\. The purpose of the named organizations to provide funds for the education of qualified students is recognized and considered to be desirable.

2\. Funds or securities provided for such grants-in-aid shall be deposited with the Bursar of the University, and after acceptance as hereinafter provided, shall be applied by him toward payment of University fees and the reasonable cost of board, room, laundry and books incurred by students to whom award shall be made

3\. The Committee on Scholarships, Loans, and Employment will have responsibility to make all such awards upon nominations of the donors, respectively. If any nominee is rejected by the Committee, it may not make an award to another not so nominated.

4\. Funds deposited with the Bursar unexpended and uncommitted for grants-in-aid shall be refunded to the donor by the Bursar, on written request therefor.

5\. Awards shall be available only to students in good academic standing and prospective students, but conditioned as to the latter upon their meeting established entrance requirements.

6\. Such grants-in-aid shall be awarded and administered in strict compliance with the rules and regulations of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

7\. The Board of Visitors will, by resolution, accept funds or securities deposited with the Bursar, by the donors respectively, for disposition under the conditions here specified.
