---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1953'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
GIFTSDEATH OF PROFESSOR LEHMAN AND MR. H. P. JOHNSONLEAVE OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSSALE OF PETERSBURG PROPERTY OF SEWARD ESTATENURSING EDUCATIONCANCER CLINICBARRINGER WING ADDITIONNEW CHAIR OF PHYSICSMILLER SCHOOL LOAN FUNDADMISSION OF DAUGHTERS OF FACULTY MEMBERS TO THE COLLEGEREPORT OF MEDICAL COMMITTEEMACRAE BEQUESTFOOTBALL COACHELECTION OF A NEW FOOTBALL COACHLOAN FUNDS FOR INTERNS AND RESIDENT PHYSICIANSTHE BURSAR'S FUNDREPORT OF ATHLETIC COMMITTEEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSMEETINGS OF THE BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Medical Alumni Association, to be used as follows: Medical Library Fund$1,536.79Staige Blackford Lecture Fund80.79Total$ 1,617.58

Medical Library Fund

$1,536.79

Staige Blackford Lecture Fund

80.79

Total

$ 1,617.58

Medical Library Fund

$1,536.79

Staige Blackford Lecture Fund

80.79

Total

$ 1,617.58

From Mr. Isaac T. Walke, of Norfolk, approximately 1,000 volumes, collected by the Chipley family, valued at

525.00

From Mr. G. M. Alexander, of Lynchburg, the first issue in mint condition of Dickens' "Great Expectations", valued at

800.00

From the Keyes Foundation, for the John Henry Wheeler Fellowship

500.00

From Mr. W. A. Luke, Jr., for medical research under Dr. Kenneth Crispell

1,000.00

From the Virginia Society for Crippled Children, toward salary paid Dr. E. V. Jones, Jr., Director of Anti-Convulsive Clinic

2,499.98

From the Upjohn Company, for medical research under Dr. William Parson and Dr. Kenneth Crispell

3,000.00

From the Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity, for a law scholarship

100.00

From Mr. Stanley K. Peirce, for the purchase of new equipment for the Cardiographic Division of the Department of Internal Medicine

300.00

From the Bilhuber-Knoll Corporation, for research in allergy by Dr. Oscar Swineford

2,000.00

From the Williams and Wilkins Company, to be added to the Hematology Research Fund

320.00

From the S. E. Massengill Company, to the Urology Research Fund, for ten fellowship grants

5,000.00

From the University Hospital Circle, to establish the "University Hospital Circle Scholarship"

250.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used by the Bureau of Public Administration

3,000.00

From the American Tobacco Company, for a fellowship in Chemistry, under Dr. Alfred Burger

4,000.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship for the year 1952-53

1,500.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in Chemistry, under Dr. Paul Gross, for one year beginning October 30, 1952

8,020.76

From the Department of the Army, for research under Mr. Robert M. Hubbard, of the School of Engineering, for one year beginning October 29, 1952

18,610.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. Morris S. McKeehan of the School of Medicine, for two years

5,400.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for research under Dr. Jacques Rappaport, of the Biology Department, for one year beginning October 1, 1953

2,000.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for research under the following members of the Medical Faculty

Dr. William Parson

16,048.00

Dr. J. F. A. McManus

3,348.00

Dr. A. E. Feller

6,480.00

Dr. John L. Guerrant

4,500.00

Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti

7,650.00

Dr. C.L. Gemmill

7,723.00

Dr. William Parson

13,986.00

Medical Library Fund

$1,536.79

Staige Blackford Lecture Fund

80.79

Total

$ 1,617.58

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President Mary Washington College, Visitor Talbott.

The minutes of the special meeting of January 8, 1953, and the regular meeting of January 9, 1953, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants:

Professor Ernest Linwood Lehman, Professor of Latin, died January 22, 1953. He had been on the staff of the University since 1915.

Mr. Herman Patrick Johnson, former Associate Professor of English, who retired in 1946 and who had been on the staff of the University since 1914, died January 30, 1953.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. James W. Cole, Associate Professor of Chemistry, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session of 1952-53, to work with the National Science Foundation.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. R. J. Ackart, Director of the Hospital and Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine, be and it is hereby accepted as of January 31, 1953. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Joseph Forde Anthony McManus, Associate Professor of Pathology, be and it is hereby accepted as of January 31, 1953. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of the University:

Dr. C. Colleer Abbott, as Visiting Professor of English, for the second semester of the session of 1952-53, at a salary of $4,000.

Dr. John Paul Nafe, as Visiting Professor of Psychology, for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $5,800. This is a replacement for Dr. Finger, who will be on leave next session.

Dr. David W. Bierhorst, as Assistant Professor of Biology, beginning in September, 1953, at a salary of $4,050.

The following appointment was confirmed by the Board:

Lieutenant John R. Gaines, as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective February 15, 1953. This is a replacement for Major Hall, who has been detached.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 334, 337, and 338, aggregating $14,997.22, recommended by them for cancellation.

The President stated that offers had been received through Mr. Churchill Gibson Dunn, Attorney, of Petersburg, for the purchase of the following lots situated in the City of Petersburg and all of which were conveyed to the University by a deed of Helen F. Guthrie and M. H. Guthrie, her husband, dated September 30, 1935, and recorded in the Clerk's Office of the Hustings Court of the City of Petersburg in D. B. 130, p. 521. Said conveyance was made by Mr. and Mrs. Guthrie to the University in settlement of an indebtedness owed by them to the estate of the late Walter F. Seward. Said offers are as follows

(1) By Robert C. Daugherty to purchase Lots 57, 58, 59, 60, and 92, Washington Park Subdivision, at the price of $500.00 cash,

(2) By Edna J. Valentine to purchase Lots 52 and 53, Washington Park Subdivision, at the price of $230.00 cash,

(3) By Earl Walker to purchase Lots 9, 10, 11, 83, and 84, Washington Park Subdivision, at the price of $700.00 cash,

(4) By T. T. Musgrove, Jr., to purchase part Lot 5, St. Luke Street, sometimes designated as Lot 408-Heights, being a lot fronting 57½ feet on north side of St. Luke Street in Petersburg and extending back therefrom between parallel lines 150 feet, at the price of $410.00 cash.

The sum of the above offers is $1,840.00, from which is to be deducted 5% real estate agent's commission, leaving net purchase price to the University of $1,748.00.

The President stated that every effort had been made to sell these lots and that the above amount is the best price that has been offered and recommended the acceptance thereof.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED that the offers above referred to for the lots in question be and are hereby accepted, and Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is hereby authorized and directed to execute deeds conveying said properties to the respective purchasers, with special warranty of title, and Vincent Shea, Secretary of this Board, is hereby instructed to affix the corporate seal to each of said deeds and to deliver said deeds to Mr. Churchill Gibson Dunn for delivery by him to the respective purchasers upon receipt by him of the purchase price from each.

The President presented a letter from the Dean of the School of Education, proposing a reorganization of the training in Nursing Education at the University, as set forth in the following proposal.

The School of Medicine, the School of Education, and the Director of the University Hospital recommend with the approval of the University Senate that the University of Virginia establish a Department of Nursing incorporating the present Cabaniss Memorial Department of Nursing Education and the Department of Nursing in the School of Medicine into a single administrative unit with its own chairman, faculty, and budget, functioning under the joint control of the School of Medicine, the School of Education and the University of Virginia Hospital. (It is suggested that such control could be exercised by a joint committee of these three divisions of the University on which the chairman of the Department of Nursing would serve in an ex officio capacity).

It is further recommended that the New Department of Nursing offer the programs leading to the degree of B. S. in Nursing and diploma in Nursing through the School of Medicine, a program leading to the degree of Master of Education (in Nursing Education) through the School of Education, and a program in Practical Nursing through the University of Virginia Hospital.

A resolution was adopted approving the above program, subject to the President securing the approval of the new Dean of the Medical School for this proposal.

The President reported that formal approval of the Board was required for the operation of a Cancer Clinic at the University Hospital, one of seven in the State supported by the Virginia Cancer Society. A resolution was adopted approving the work which has been done by the Cancer Clinic in the past and authorizing its continuance as a clinic at the University Hospital.

The President reported that bids had been received on the Barringer Wing Addition, which bids had to be approved by the Public Health Service before the Board could authorize their acceptance. To prevent delaying the awarding of the contracts, the Executive Committee was authorized, when approval from the Public Health Service was received, to direct the President to accept the lowest and best bids, subject to approval by the Budget Division of the Governor's Office.

The name of the new Chair of Physics established at the last Board meeting, designated the Frank Smith Chair of Physics, was changed to the Francis H. Smith Chair of Physics, and Dr. Jesse W. Beams was unanimously elected to this Chair.

The President presented a resolution from the Trustees of the Miller School, as set forth below, together with a letter from Mr. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University of Virginia. The following is quoted from Mr. Minor's letter, "It is my opinion, based upon the statements of Mr. Perry and of Mr. Miller, that this is not a trust fund and that the Board may instruct the Bursar to turn this money over to the Miller School to be used for such purposes as Mr. Perry may designate."

"WHEREAS, on the 3rd day of October, 1949, the Miller School of Albemarle delivered to the University of Virginia as custodian the sum of $1,893.60, being a fund which had been given to the Miller School by Dominion Theatres, Incorporated, for scholarship purposes, and

WHEREAS no candidates for scholarships have recently been available, and the likelihood that any will be available is remote,

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Visitors of the Miller School of Albemarle that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be, and they are hereby requested to return the said fund to the Miller School of Albemarle."

Whereupon, a resolution was adopted that the funds be returned to the Miller School, in accordance with the opinion of the Special Counsel for the University, as requested by the donor of the fund, The Dominion Theatres, Inc.

The Rector read the following letter received from the Attorney General in response to a request for an opinion concerning the above matter:

This is in reply to your recent letter from which I quote as follows:

"The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia would greatly appreciate your rendering a legal opinion as to the validity of the passage of the following resolution:

\`Be it resolved that daughters of members of the faculty of the University of Virginia may enter the School of Arts and Sciences, and after passing the prescribed courses, and conforming to the other prescribed conditions, may be awarded the degrees of B. A. and B. S.'

"The question I have propounded above arose from a hardship situation concerning a professor of mathematics who has received an offer from the University of Wisconsin of a higher salary than the University can pay him. He is willing to stay with us if we will allow him to enroll his daughters as candidates for B. A. or B. S. degrees in the School of Art and Sciences.

"However, our inquiry of you is not based on any question either of necessity or of policy, but rather on the point as to whether there is any statutory, constitutional or common law provision which would prevent the passage of the above resolution."

It is my understanding that for many years women have been permitted to take courses offered in the College of Arts and Sciences and that credit for that work has been allowed them in the Department of Education and the Department of Graduate Studies of the University. It is also my understanding that while heretofore women have not been allowed to receive a so-called liberal arts degree from the College of Arts and Sciences, they have been awarded B. S. in Commerce degrees earned in the Schools of Commerce and Economics which, in fact, are a part of the College of Arts and Sciences.

I am unable to find any statute that expressly and specifically prohibits the adoption of the proposed resolution quoted above. However, my attention has been called to Article 4 of Chapter 9 of Title 23 of the Code (sections 23-86—23-91) which converted Mary Washington College of Fredericksburg into a liberal arts college for women and affiliated it with the University as an integral part thereof by transferring the supervision, management and control from the State Board of Education to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Section 23-89 of the Code provides that "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall have the same standards of admission and graduation as obtained for male students in the college of arts and sciences of the University" and that "the tuition charges \* \* shall not exceed those which are \* \* fixed by the rector and visitors \* \* for male students in such college of arts and sciences". (Italics supplied). It is urged that the use of the words "male students" indicate that the General Assembly recognized and approved the Board's policy of limiting liberal arts degrees to male students and that such recognition and approval has the effect of law, thus prohibiting the award of such degrees to women. I agree that the language used in section 23-89 may well indicate that the General Assembly approves of the past and present policy of the Board on this question. However, it must be pointed out that such policy was established by a state institution and not by the Legislature. Under such circumstances, it is my opinion that the mere recognition of such a policy and the approval thereof by the General Assembly does not have the force and effect of a law restricting the Board in the formation of its future policy.

Section 23-76 of the Code prescribes the powers and duties of the Board and contains, among other things, a provision authorizing it "to make such regulations as they (it) may deem expedient, not being contrary to law". It is my conclusion that this provision has not been amended or restricted by Article 4 of Chapter 9 herein referred to and that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may in its discretion adopt the resolution set forth in your letter.

This opinion of the Attorney General confirmed the action of the Board taken at the October meeting, at which it passed the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the daughters of faculty members who live in the homes of their families in Charlottesville be admitted to the College of Arts and Sciences.

Dr. Emmett stated that the Auditor's Report showed three things. (1) that the University Hospital operates less economically than the Medical College Hospital, (2) that occupancy has dropped, and (3) that collections of patients' accounts have decreased. Dr. Emmett stated that he believes that part of the high operating cost is due to the old sprawling buildings which are much more expensive to operate and maintain than a modern hospital like the Medical College.

Prior to his departure, Dr. Ackart had worked out a plan to reconstruct wards which would make possible a shift in certain classes of patients, which it was hoped would result in a higher occupancy rate. In the matter of collections, it was Dr. Emmett's belief that Dr. Ackart was more sympathetic with the teaching program of the hospital than with the problems of fiscal control. However, procedures to improve collections have been instituted and there has already been an upturn in collections.

Dr. Emmett stated that he had discussed the problems of hospital management with a number of the doctors, some of whom are quite interested and anxious to help in holding costs down, others were quite indifferent.

The Medical Committee proposes to meet every sixty days and would like a progress report from the hospital prepared for each of its meetings.

Mrs. Smith said she had two recommendations, (1) that we try to secure an efficient administrator for the hospital, and (2) ask the Legislature for funds to modernize the hospital.

The new Dean, Dr. Hunter, does not believe we should aspire to build a tremendous hospital. He emphasized that we should attempt to improve the quality rather than the size of the institution.

Dr. Emmett said that he thought that a good bit could be accomplished by representatives of the two medical centers appearing before the Virginia Academy of Medicine and asking the doctors of the State to cooperate in indigent care problems of the two hospitals.

The President stated that he had met with Dr. Sanger, President of the Medical College, last week. A plan is being formulated to try, with the help of the Legislature, to get the localities to pay the State hospitals the actual per diem cost for all indigents.

President Darden read a letter from Mr. John P. Edmondson as set forth below:

Thank you for your letter of February 5th. I have discussed its contents with and shown it to Dr. Macrae, and he has asked me to communicate his wishes to you.

Dr. Macrae has great confidence in Miss Jeannette Bricault and wishes to repay her in some small way for her kindness and consideration in looking after him in the declining years of his life. He has told me that there will be ample funds available in his gift to the University of Virginia to enable the administering authorities of the University to pay Miss Bricault the $1,000 per year, payable quarterly, which has been the subject of correspondence between Mr. White and me. It is Dr. Macrae's feeling that the principal of his gift to the University will be sufficient to enable the first $1,000 of income to be paid to Miss Bricault, leaving a sufficient income over and above this for the purposes of the endowment. He is willing to grant the administering authorities the right to make inroads on the principal of the fund provided that Miss Bricault be given the option of accepting a sum in an amount less than $1,000 a year or the full $1,000, a portion of which would constitute principal as well as interest. Dr. Macrae feels that her interest in the fund is a real one and that she should be given the option of accepting a smaller amount before the principal is invaded.

On the question of repayment by a beneficiary of the fund, Dr. Macrae's feeling stems primarily from the fact that in the formative period of his life, his lot was not easy one. Through the goodness of others, he obtained funds sufficient to secure an education and later on repaid the funds. He does not feel that it is a good thing for any young man to simply have the means of an education given him without a corresponding assumption on the part of the young man of a moral obligation or sense of duty to repay. Dr. Macrae does not wish to impose this feeling as a legal condition of an award which would place the University in the position of collecting it. He does, however, feel very strongly that his thought should be made known to the beneficiary at the time the award is made.

I tried to explain to Dr. Macrae that if too many hazards and hedges are placed upon his gift it would certainly impede the orderly administration of it and if the conditions were too onerous they might very well prevent the University from accepting it. I trust that the foregoing will not be found impractical by the Board and prevent the acceptance of the Endowment. Would you be good enough to let me have the Board's views as well as your own on the proposed "Macrae Endowment".

Whereupon, a resolution was adopted authorizing the President to write and express the appreciation of the University for the proposed gift and to state that the requirements set forth in the letter would be agreeable to the Board.

President Darden stated that prior to Mr. Guepe's acceptance of a position at Vanderbilt, that he had discussed with Mr. Guepe and the Director of Athletics a five-year contract with the Football Coach which he had agreed to present to the Board at its February meeting. Last week Chancellor Branscomb of Vanderbilt called the President and said that Vanderbilt was interested in Guepe but did not want to offer him a position if he was under contract to the University of Virginia. Guepe was then at Vanderbilt in conference with officials there. When Guepe returned he informed the President that he had been offered a salary of $12,500 per year, plus $110,000 for athletic scholarships. The President stated that he asked Guepe to defer his decision until the Board met February 13, but Guepe stated that he could not.

A resolution was adopted accepting the resignation of Mr. Arthur Guepe, Head Football Coach.

The President read the following letter from Mr. Gus Tebell, Director of Athletics

I respectfully submit the following names for appointment to our coaching staff.

Ned L. MacDonald as head coach of football and by his request and with my full approval, Robert P. Fuller as his first assistant. These men will also perform such other duties as may be requested of them by the Athletic Director.

I further recommend that these men be awarded a three year contract as of March 1, 1953. Our football fortunes, because of shortage in material, will be at low tide for the next two years and these men will need more time to work out our problems and prove themselves. A three year contract will add measurably to their working conditions.

Mr. Fuller will continue his present post as coach of Lacrosse. A workable agreement for the coaching of both sports by Fuller will be compatible to both men.

I also recommend that MacDonald be paid an annual salary of $8,000 and Fuller $6,500, with a token raise being granted sometime during the contract. Details of the contract to be worked out by the University Administration.

The nomination of other football assistants will be made at a later date by the head coach.

These recommendations are submitted after full deliberations and with the unanimous approval of the Advisory Athletic Council.

Thanking you for your consideration on the above recommendations, I am

The President stated that the Charlottesville Alumni Chapter unanimously recommended MacDonald and that he had also received a petition signed by 37 members of the football squad endorsing MacDonald for the position as head football coach. The President said that it was his recommendation that MacDonald and Fuller be appointed at the salaries and for the terms set forth in Mr. Tebell's letter. A resolution was adopted accepting the recommendations of the President.

At the last session of the State Legislature, regulations governing the State Student Loan Fund were amended to open this fund to interns and resident physicians in the two State hospitals, the Medical College and the University of Virginia. This fund, however, is not open to interns and resident physicians who are not residents of the State of Virginia.

The Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment has passed a resolution recommending to the President and the Board of Visitors that loan funds of the University, other than the State Student Loan Fund, be open to resident physicians and interns who are not eligible for the State Student Loan Fund, provided, of course, that there is no restriction on the use of such funds for these individuals in the trust instruments establishing such funds.

A resolution accepting these recommendations was adopted.

Mr. Gay, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the Bursar's Fund, which contains investments of current funds, had grown from $295,000 in March, 1947, to approximately $2,000,000. He stated that the Finance Committee had considered this matter and recommended the adoption of the following resolution.

RESOLVED, that in regard to securities held by the Bursar in the current cash account, the Bursar, with the concurrence of the President, shall have authority to sell these securities and to purchase other securities for the account, whose maturities are not longer than one year from the date of purchase. Where purchases of securities with maturities at more distant dates than a year from the date of purchase are made, the concurrence of the Finance Committee of the Board is required

The Board adopted the following report of the Athletic Committee.

At the meeting of the Board held December 14, 1951, the following resolution was adopted

"BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector be asked to appoint a Committee of the Board to study the type of organization which should be established for the control of athletics."

The undersigned constitute the committee appointed by The Rector pursuant to this resolution. In the discharge of its functions the Committee has had the benefit of all recorded actions by faculty and other groups interested in the problem and has given careful consideration to and, in many respects, has profited by their views and recommendations.

The White Committee, which reported to the President of the University in December, 1934, recommended institutional control of inter-collegiate athletics, intramural sports and physical education. We understand that this fundamental principle has prevailed in theory since the White report was approved, but that changing conditions have brought about some changes in administrative functions. Furthermore, in our opinion, present circumstances make it advisable to specify more particularly the functions of an Advisory Council as set up in the White Report, now known as the 3-3-3 Committee. Since the death of Captain Pritchett, the Director of the Department of Athletics has not held faculty status. We approve the fundamental principle stated in the White Report. We believe that the institutional control therein recommended is the proper form of control to be exercised over the Department of Athletics.

In order to implement this principle, we recommend the following.

(1) That responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of Athletics, who shall have faculty status and the pay of a Department Head, and that the Director shall be responsible to the President of the University

(2) That the faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general, that students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in inter-collegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administrative authorities, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned.

(3) That an Advisory Council on Athletics be established which shall consist of

(a) Three members from the Faculty, appointed by the President.

(b) Two members from the Alumni Association, elected by its Board of Managers, and

(c) Two members from the Student Body, elected by the Student Council,

that this Advisory Council shall be authorized to select its own Chairman and to adopt rules or regulations governing its sessions and the transaction of its business, that the Advisory Council shall be required to meet once in each calendar quarter and at such additional times as may appear necessary, on call of its chairman or of the Director of Athletics, that the Director of Athletics shall be required to report to the Council at each meeting concerning his administration of the Department and to suggest to the Council for its discussion and for advisory action any questions then existing or anticipated by the Director as likely to arise prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting, that this Council shall have the function of advising with the Director of Athletics concerning all major decisions affecting the administration of his Department, of referring to the Board of Visitors, through the President, for its consideration questions of policy deemed by the Council to be appropriate for Board action, and of recommending in like manner to the Board of Visitors action on any question concerning the Department, referred by the Board to the Council.

(4) That the administration of the Department of Athletics shall be under the supervision of the President and administrative authorities of the University, and that decision on all questions involved in its operation shall, as in other phases of the University's activities, be subject to review and final determination by the Board of Visitors.

Whereupon, the following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED, that the Board of Visitors wished to express its appreciation and thanks to the Athletic Committee for its fine work in preparing this report.

The Rector referred to the Athletic Committee the matter of recommendations as to conforming the athletic practices of the University with the requirements of the NCAA. The request was made that just as soon as the NCAA modifications of their requirements were printed and received that they be sent to the members of the Athletic Committee so that they might make intelligent recommendations on this subject.

Mr. Black stated that President Combs of Mary Washington College had asked that the two meetings to be held at Mary Washington College each year be held during the months of April and November, if this was agreeable to the Board. Whereupon, a resolution was adopted confirming this recommendation.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

This is in reply to your recent letter from which I quote as follows:

"The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia would greatly appreciate your rendering a legal opinion as to the validity of the passage of the following resolution:

\`Be it resolved that daughters of members of the faculty of the University of Virginia may enter the School of Arts and Sciences, and after passing the prescribed courses, and conforming to the other prescribed conditions, may be awarded the degrees of B. A. and B. S.'

"The question I have propounded above arose from a hardship situation concerning a professor of mathematics who has received an offer from the University of Wisconsin of a higher salary than the University can pay him. He is willing to stay with us if we will allow him to enroll his daughters as candidates for B. A. or B. S. degrees in the School of Art and Sciences.

"However, our inquiry of you is not based on any question either of necessity or of policy, but rather on the point as to whether there is any statutory, constitutional or common law provision which would prevent the passage of the above resolution."

It is my understanding that for many years women have been permitted to take courses offered in the College of Arts and Sciences and that credit for that work has been allowed them in the Department of Education and the Department of Graduate Studies of the University. It is also my understanding that while heretofore women have not been allowed to receive a so-called liberal arts degree from the College of Arts and Sciences, they have been awarded B. S. in Commerce degrees earned in the Schools of Commerce and Economics which, in fact, are a part of the College of Arts and Sciences.

I am unable to find any statute that expressly and specifically prohibits the adoption of the proposed resolution quoted above. However, my attention has been called to Article 4 of Chapter 9 of Title 23 of the Code (sections 23-86—23-91) which converted Mary Washington College of Fredericksburg into a liberal arts college for women and affiliated it with the University as an integral part thereof by transferring the supervision, management and control from the State Board of Education to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Section 23-89 of the Code provides that "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall have the same standards of admission and graduation as obtained for male students in the college of arts and sciences of the University" and that "the tuition charges \* \* shall not exceed those which are \* \* fixed by the rector and visitors \* \* for male students in such college of arts and sciences". (Italics supplied). It is urged that the use of the words "male students" indicate that the General Assembly recognized and approved the Board's policy of limiting liberal arts degrees to male students and that such recognition and approval has the effect of law, thus prohibiting the award of such degrees to women. I agree that the language used in section 23-89 may well indicate that the General Assembly approves of the past and present policy of the Board on this question. However, it must be pointed out that such policy was established by a state institution and not by the Legislature. Under such circumstances, it is my opinion that the mere recognition of such a policy and the approval thereof by the General Assembly does not have the force and effect of a law restricting the Board in the formation of its future policy.

Section 23-76 of the Code prescribes the powers and duties of the Board and contains, among other things, a provision authorizing it "to make such regulations as they (it) may deem expedient, not being contrary to law". It is my conclusion that this provision has not been amended or restricted by Article 4 of Chapter 9 herein referred to and that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may in its discretion adopt the resolution set forth in your letter.

Thank you for your letter of February 5th. I have discussed its contents with and shown it to Dr. Macrae, and he has asked me to communicate his wishes to you.

Dr. Macrae has great confidence in Miss Jeannette Bricault and wishes to repay her in some small way for her kindness and consideration in looking after him in the declining years of his life. He has told me that there will be ample funds available in his gift to the University of Virginia to enable the administering authorities of the University to pay Miss Bricault the $1,000 per year, payable quarterly, which has been the subject of correspondence between Mr. White and me. It is Dr. Macrae's feeling that the principal of his gift to the University will be sufficient to enable the first $1,000 of income to be paid to Miss Bricault, leaving a sufficient income over and above this for the purposes of the endowment. He is willing to grant the administering authorities the right to make inroads on the principal of the fund provided that Miss Bricault be given the option of accepting a sum in an amount less than $1,000 a year or the full $1,000, a portion of which would constitute principal as well as interest. Dr. Macrae feels that her interest in the fund is a real one and that she should be given the option of accepting a smaller amount before the principal is invaded.

On the question of repayment by a beneficiary of the fund, Dr. Macrae's feeling stems primarily from the fact that in the formative period of his life, his lot was not easy one. Through the goodness of others, he obtained funds sufficient to secure an education and later on repaid the funds. He does not feel that it is a good thing for any young man to simply have the means of an education given him without a corresponding assumption on the part of the young man of a moral obligation or sense of duty to repay. Dr. Macrae does not wish to impose this feeling as a legal condition of an award which would place the University in the position of collecting it. He does, however, feel very strongly that his thought should be made known to the beneficiary at the time the award is made.

I tried to explain to Dr. Macrae that if too many hazards and hedges are placed upon his gift it would certainly impede the orderly administration of it and if the conditions were too onerous they might very well prevent the University from accepting it. I trust that the foregoing will not be found impractical by the Board and prevent the acceptance of the Endowment. Would you be good enough to let me have the Board's views as well as your own on the proposed "Macrae Endowment".

I respectfully submit the following names for appointment to our coaching staff.

Ned L. MacDonald as head coach of football and by his request and with my full approval, Robert P. Fuller as his first assistant. These men will also perform such other duties as may be requested of them by the Athletic Director.

I further recommend that these men be awarded a three year contract as of March 1, 1953. Our football fortunes, because of shortage in material, will be at low tide for the next two years and these men will need more time to work out our problems and prove themselves. A three year contract will add measurably to their working conditions.

Mr. Fuller will continue his present post as coach of Lacrosse. A workable agreement for the coaching of both sports by Fuller will be compatible to both men.

I also recommend that MacDonald be paid an annual salary of $8,000 and Fuller $6,500, with a token raise being granted sometime during the contract. Details of the contract to be worked out by the University Administration.

The nomination of other football assistants will be made at a later date by the head coach.

These recommendations are submitted after full deliberations and with the unanimous approval of the Advisory Athletic Council.

Thanking you for your consideration on the above recommendations, I am

At the meeting of the Board held December 14, 1951, the following resolution was adopted

"BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector be asked to appoint a Committee of the Board to study the type of organization which should be established for the control of athletics."

The undersigned constitute the committee appointed by The Rector pursuant to this resolution. In the discharge of its functions the Committee has had the benefit of all recorded actions by faculty and other groups interested in the problem and has given careful consideration to and, in many respects, has profited by their views and recommendations.

The White Committee, which reported to the President of the University in December, 1934, recommended institutional control of inter-collegiate athletics, intramural sports and physical education. We understand that this fundamental principle has prevailed in theory since the White report was approved, but that changing conditions have brought about some changes in administrative functions. Furthermore, in our opinion, present circumstances make it advisable to specify more particularly the functions of an Advisory Council as set up in the White Report, now known as the 3-3-3 Committee. Since the death of Captain Pritchett, the Director of the Department of Athletics has not held faculty status. We approve the fundamental principle stated in the White Report. We believe that the institutional control therein recommended is the proper form of control to be exercised over the Department of Athletics.

In order to implement this principle, we recommend the following.

(1) That responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of Athletics, who shall have faculty status and the pay of a Department Head, and that the Director shall be responsible to the President of the University

(2) That the faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general, that students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in inter-collegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administrative authorities, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned.

(3) That an Advisory Council on Athletics be established which shall consist of

(a) Three members from the Faculty, appointed by the President.

(b) Two members from the Alumni Association, elected by its Board of Managers, and

(c) Two members from the Student Body, elected by the Student Council,

that this Advisory Council shall be authorized to select its own Chairman and to adopt rules or regulations governing its sessions and the transaction of its business, that the Advisory Council shall be required to meet once in each calendar quarter and at such additional times as may appear necessary, on call of its chairman or of the Director of Athletics, that the Director of Athletics shall be required to report to the Council at each meeting concerning his administration of the Department and to suggest to the Council for its discussion and for advisory action any questions then existing or anticipated by the Director as likely to arise prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting, that this Council shall have the function of advising with the Director of Athletics concerning all major decisions affecting the administration of his Department, of referring to the Board of Visitors, through the President, for its consideration questions of policy deemed by the Council to be appropriate for Board action, and of recommending in like manner to the Board of Visitors action on any question concerning the Department, referred by the Board to the Council.

(4) That the administration of the Department of Athletics shall be under the supervision of the President and administrative authorities of the University, and that decision on all questions involved in its operation shall, as in other phases of the University's activities, be subject to review and final determination by the Board of Visitors.

This is in reply to your recent letter from which I quote as follows:

"The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia would greatly appreciate your rendering a legal opinion as to the validity of the passage of the following resolution:

\`Be it resolved that daughters of members of the faculty of the University of Virginia may enter the School of Arts and Sciences, and after passing the prescribed courses, and conforming to the other prescribed conditions, may be awarded the degrees of B. A. and B. S.'

"The question I have propounded above arose from a hardship situation concerning a professor of mathematics who has received an offer from the University of Wisconsin of a higher salary than the University can pay him. He is willing to stay with us if we will allow him to enroll his daughters as candidates for B. A. or B. S. degrees in the School of Art and Sciences.

"However, our inquiry of you is not based on any question either of necessity or of policy, but rather on the point as to whether there is any statutory, constitutional or common law provision which would prevent the passage of the above resolution."

It is my understanding that for many years women have been permitted to take courses offered in the College of Arts and Sciences and that credit for that work has been allowed them in the Department of Education and the Department of Graduate Studies of the University. It is also my understanding that while heretofore women have not been allowed to receive a so-called liberal arts degree from the College of Arts and Sciences, they have been awarded B. S. in Commerce degrees earned in the Schools of Commerce and Economics which, in fact, are a part of the College of Arts and Sciences.

I am unable to find any statute that expressly and specifically prohibits the adoption of the proposed resolution quoted above. However, my attention has been called to Article 4 of Chapter 9 of Title 23 of the Code (sections 23-86—23-91) which converted Mary Washington College of Fredericksburg into a liberal arts college for women and affiliated it with the University as an integral part thereof by transferring the supervision, management and control from the State Board of Education to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Section 23-89 of the Code provides that "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall have the same standards of admission and graduation as obtained for male students in the college of arts and sciences of the University" and that "the tuition charges \* \* shall not exceed those which are \* \* fixed by the rector and visitors \* \* for male students in such college of arts and sciences". (Italics supplied). It is urged that the use of the words "male students" indicate that the General Assembly recognized and approved the Board's policy of limiting liberal arts degrees to male students and that such recognition and approval has the effect of law, thus prohibiting the award of such degrees to women. I agree that the language used in section 23-89 may well indicate that the General Assembly approves of the past and present policy of the Board on this question. However, it must be pointed out that such policy was established by a state institution and not by the Legislature. Under such circumstances, it is my opinion that the mere recognition of such a policy and the approval thereof by the General Assembly does not have the force and effect of a law restricting the Board in the formation of its future policy.

Section 23-76 of the Code prescribes the powers and duties of the Board and contains, among other things, a provision authorizing it "to make such regulations as they (it) may deem expedient, not being contrary to law". It is my conclusion that this provision has not been amended or restricted by Article 4 of Chapter 9 herein referred to and that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia may in its discretion adopt the resolution set forth in your letter.

Thank you for your letter of February 5th. I have discussed its contents with and shown it to Dr. Macrae, and he has asked me to communicate his wishes to you.

Dr. Macrae has great confidence in Miss Jeannette Bricault and wishes to repay her in some small way for her kindness and consideration in looking after him in the declining years of his life. He has told me that there will be ample funds available in his gift to the University of Virginia to enable the administering authorities of the University to pay Miss Bricault the $1,000 per year, payable quarterly, which has been the subject of correspondence between Mr. White and me. It is Dr. Macrae's feeling that the principal of his gift to the University will be sufficient to enable the first $1,000 of income to be paid to Miss Bricault, leaving a sufficient income over and above this for the purposes of the endowment. He is willing to grant the administering authorities the right to make inroads on the principal of the fund provided that Miss Bricault be given the option of accepting a sum in an amount less than $1,000 a year or the full $1,000, a portion of which would constitute principal as well as interest. Dr. Macrae feels that her interest in the fund is a real one and that she should be given the option of accepting a smaller amount before the principal is invaded.

On the question of repayment by a beneficiary of the fund, Dr. Macrae's feeling stems primarily from the fact that in the formative period of his life, his lot was not easy one. Through the goodness of others, he obtained funds sufficient to secure an education and later on repaid the funds. He does not feel that it is a good thing for any young man to simply have the means of an education given him without a corresponding assumption on the part of the young man of a moral obligation or sense of duty to repay. Dr. Macrae does not wish to impose this feeling as a legal condition of an award which would place the University in the position of collecting it. He does, however, feel very strongly that his thought should be made known to the beneficiary at the time the award is made.

I tried to explain to Dr. Macrae that if too many hazards and hedges are placed upon his gift it would certainly impede the orderly administration of it and if the conditions were too onerous they might very well prevent the University from accepting it. I trust that the foregoing will not be found impractical by the Board and prevent the acceptance of the Endowment. Would you be good enough to let me have the Board's views as well as your own on the proposed "Macrae Endowment".

I respectfully submit the following names for appointment to our coaching staff.

Ned L. MacDonald as head coach of football and by his request and with my full approval, Robert P. Fuller as his first assistant. These men will also perform such other duties as may be requested of them by the Athletic Director.

I further recommend that these men be awarded a three year contract as of March 1, 1953. Our football fortunes, because of shortage in material, will be at low tide for the next two years and these men will need more time to work out our problems and prove themselves. A three year contract will add measurably to their working conditions.

Mr. Fuller will continue his present post as coach of Lacrosse. A workable agreement for the coaching of both sports by Fuller will be compatible to both men.

I also recommend that MacDonald be paid an annual salary of $8,000 and Fuller $6,500, with a token raise being granted sometime during the contract. Details of the contract to be worked out by the University Administration.

The nomination of other football assistants will be made at a later date by the head coach.

These recommendations are submitted after full deliberations and with the unanimous approval of the Advisory Athletic Council.

Thanking you for your consideration on the above recommendations, I am

At the meeting of the Board held December 14, 1951, the following resolution was adopted

"BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector be asked to appoint a Committee of the Board to study the type of organization which should be established for the control of athletics."

The undersigned constitute the committee appointed by The Rector pursuant to this resolution. In the discharge of its functions the Committee has had the benefit of all recorded actions by faculty and other groups interested in the problem and has given careful consideration to and, in many respects, has profited by their views and recommendations.

The White Committee, which reported to the President of the University in December, 1934, recommended institutional control of inter-collegiate athletics, intramural sports and physical education. We understand that this fundamental principle has prevailed in theory since the White report was approved, but that changing conditions have brought about some changes in administrative functions. Furthermore, in our opinion, present circumstances make it advisable to specify more particularly the functions of an Advisory Council as set up in the White Report, now known as the 3-3-3 Committee. Since the death of Captain Pritchett, the Director of the Department of Athletics has not held faculty status. We approve the fundamental principle stated in the White Report. We believe that the institutional control therein recommended is the proper form of control to be exercised over the Department of Athletics.

In order to implement this principle, we recommend the following.

(1) That responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of Athletics, who shall have faculty status and the pay of a Department Head, and that the Director shall be responsible to the President of the University

(2) That the faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general, that students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in inter-collegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administrative authorities, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned.

(3) That an Advisory Council on Athletics be established which shall consist of

(a) Three members from the Faculty, appointed by the President.

(b) Two members from the Alumni Association, elected by its Board of Managers, and

(c) Two members from the Student Body, elected by the Student Council,

that this Advisory Council shall be authorized to select its own Chairman and to adopt rules or regulations governing its sessions and the transaction of its business, that the Advisory Council shall be required to meet once in each calendar quarter and at such additional times as may appear necessary, on call of its chairman or of the Director of Athletics, that the Director of Athletics shall be required to report to the Council at each meeting concerning his administration of the Department and to suggest to the Council for its discussion and for advisory action any questions then existing or anticipated by the Director as likely to arise prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting, that this Council shall have the function of advising with the Director of Athletics concerning all major decisions affecting the administration of his Department, of referring to the Board of Visitors, through the President, for its consideration questions of policy deemed by the Council to be appropriate for Board action, and of recommending in like manner to the Board of Visitors action on any question concerning the Department, referred by the Board to the Council.

(4) That the administration of the Department of Athletics shall be under the supervision of the President and administrative authorities of the University, and that decision on all questions involved in its operation shall, as in other phases of the University's activities, be subject to review and final determination by the Board of Visitors.
