---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1954'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1954) November 12, 1954
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 12, 1954

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARDGIFTS AND GRANTSDEATH OF PROFESSOR ROBERT EARL SWINDLERRESIGNATIONELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSDECEMBER MEETING WITH MEDICAL FACULTYBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEELEASE OF BONNYCASTLE BASEMENT TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENTGRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION - TUITION CHARGESSALE OF DAWSON'S ROW BRICKBEQUEST OF MICHAEL S. KOVALENKOPROPOSED SALARY INCREASE FOR UNIVERSITY ATTORNEYREQUEST BY MR. WARNER WOODALBEMARLE TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONOFFER FOR LAND IN FLORIDACAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM FOR 1956 - 1962SUMMARY OF CAPITAL OUTLAY REQUESTS FOR THE SIX YEAR PROGRAM 1956-62 NOTING PRIORITIESINVITATION TO PROFESSOR GWATHMEYATHLETICSCONVEYANCE TO ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSFEES, LAUNDRY CHARGES, AND ROOM RENTALSCAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM FOR 1956 - 1962MINUTES OF THE BOARDADMINISTRATION OF THE COLLEGEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. and Mrs. W. H. White, Jr., securities to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund, valued at

$13,472.00

From Mrs. Marie W. Greenhalgh, to the Department of Surgery of the University Hospital, securities valued at

2,500.00

From the Charlottesville Branch of the American Association of University Women, for a scholarship in graduate studies

600.00

From the United Daughters of the Confederacy, for the Woodrow Wilson Scholarship

450.00

From Mr. Linton Massey, for the use of the Bibliographical Society

500.00

From Miss Jettie Hill, 498 volumes valued at

162.00

From the estate of the late Dr. Albert George Schnurman, for 3 medical scholarships of $100 each

300.00

From the V-Club, for the V-Club scholarship

250.00

From the estate of the late Kittyn M. Maas, to be used to establish the Charles Oscar Mass prize in French

10,000.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a fellowship in chemistry

4,000.00

From the Department of the Army, Ordnance Corps, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Ordnance Research Laboratory, Department of Physics

13,302.50

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Professors Whyburn and McShane in the Dept. of Mathematics

34,400.00

UNIVERSITY DIVISION

1st Phase

2nd Phase

3rd Phase

Total

1 - Life Science Building

$1,500,000 #1

\--

\--

$1,500,000

2 - Student Activities Building

$1,000,000 #2

\--

\--

$1,000,000

3 - Engineering

$ 646,000. #3

$ 107,000 #1

$247,000 #1

$1,000,000

4 - Power Plant

$ 575,000 #4

\--

$250,000. #2

$ 825,000

5 - Architecture

\--

$ 100,500. #2

\--

$ 100,500

6 - Chemistry

$ 205,000. #5

\--

$3,045,000 #5

$3,250,000

7 - Law School

\--

\--

$ 70,000. #4

$ 70,000

8 - Major Repairs & Improvements

$ 34,500 #6

$ 32,500. #3

$ 33,000 #3

$ 100,000

HOSPITAL DIVISION

1 - New Multi-Story Hospital, etc.

$5,800,000 #1

$1,756,000 #1

$196,000. #1

$7,752,000

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, McWane, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Coxe, Gray, Howard, and Talbott

The minutes of the meeting of 8 October 1954, previously distributed, were approved

Mr. Gravatt requested that he be relieved of service as a member of the Committee on Mary Washington College. The Rector accepted Mr. Gravatt's resignation, and appointed Mr. McWane in his stead

The President reported the following gifts and grants.

President Darden announced to the Board the death on 19 October 1954 of Robert Earl Swindler, Associate Professor of Education. The Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes of the Board, and to convey to Mrs. Swindler, the sense of loss felt by the Board, and its gratitude for Mr. Swindler's devoted services to the University.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Dr. Franklin Martin, Assistant Professor of Pathology, be and it is hereby accepted as of July 1, 1954

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Harry S. McGaughey, Jr., as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, as of Oct. 1, 1954, at a salary of $7,500 per year, to be paid from departmental earnings

Mr. Edward A. Wayne, as Visiting Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointment

Captain Neill C. Burnett, as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective Oct. 18, 1954, at no salary from the University

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 482, 485 and 486, aggregating $19,750.78, as recommended by them

Mrs. Smith asked that the Comptroller be requested to furnish, at the end of the fiscal year, the grand total of Hospital accounts charged off as uncollectible.

The Board resolved that the December 10th meeting should be held in Charlottesville, and that a dinner be held on the preceding evening, to which the President should invite the attendance of the Dean of Medicine and other representatives of the Medical School and Hospital, for an informal discussion of matters pertaining to the School of Medicine

Mrs. Smith reported, for the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, the acceptance of Pavilions II, III, and VI, on the Lawn, as residences, by Dean Hammond, Professor MacConochie, and Dean Stiles, respectively, and the appointment of Mr. Alden Hopkins as Consultant. President Darden spoke of the assistance and advice he had obtained from Mr. Hopkins in the landscaping and planting in connection with recently erected buildings, the suggestions made for improving the approach to the Rotunda from the north, and the desirability of a general plan for the older portion of the Grounds when it should become financially practicable

President Darden reported a request from the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for the lease of five rooms in the basement of Bonnycastle House comprising 1,152 square feet, with occasional use of the lounge, for the period ending 30 June 1955 at a proposed rental of $2,512 per year ($2.00 per square foot for the five rooms and $.50 per square foot for the part time use of the lounge)

The Board resolved that the Comptroller of the University be authorized to execute the lease upon these terms

The Board resolved that the tuition of the Graduate School of Business Administration be set at $350 per annum for residents of Virginia and at $650 per annum for non-residents

The Rector reported that he had given tentative approval to the sale of brick from demolished structures on Dawson's Row for use in the serpentine wall now being erected at Alumni Hall. The Board resolved that the Rector's decision be approved

President Darden laid before the Board letters from Mr. C. E. Hammond, Trust Officer of the First-Stamford National Bank & Trust Company, of Stamford, Connecticut, and co-executor of the estate of the late Michael S. Kovalenko, quoting Mr. Kovalenko's will as follows. "Six (6) Per Cent (of my said residuary estate) to the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, to be added to the already established Jessie Stevenson Kovalenko Fund and subject to the same terms and conditions of the original fund." Mr. Hammond's letter added that the University's legacy would amount to approximately $10,000 and would be available in May, 1955. Mr. Darden referred to a list of securities in the Kovalenko estate and to the inquiry in Mr. Hammond's letter as to whether the University would be willing to accept the legacy, in stock shares rather than in cash

There was general agreement in the Board that the stocks would be acceptable provided that Mr. Hammond's specific proposal, when received, should be referred to the Finance Committee of the Board for study and approval

President Darden called attention to the fact that the compensation paid to Mr. C. Venable Minor, set at $1200 a year at the time of his appointment as the University's Special Counsel, had been augmented by the Board several times during the past year to remunerate Mr. Minor for special tasks performed beyond the normal routine of legal work for the University. As a substitute for such occasional special remuneration, it was proposed that permanent compensation be set at $2400 a year

After a brief discussion it was suggested that Mr. Minor be asked to write a letter that might be laid before the Board setting forth the proposal

The President reported a request from Mr. Warner Wood for assurances from the University for protection from interference in tutoring classes that he proposed to establish. It was decided to carry this matter forward to a future meeting pending receipt of a letter from Mr. Wood setting forth a specific statement of his request

The Board resolved, in response to a recommendation from President Darden, that Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, President of the Albemarle Tuberculosis Association, be authorized to display in the George Rogers Clark Park from November 22nd until Christmas a sign advertising the annual Christmas Seal Drive

President Darden laid before the Board letters from Ned H. Folks (31 October 1954, offering $300) and from James F. Bishop (5 November 1954, offering $310) proposing to purchase a tract of twenty acres of land in Marion County, Florida, owned by the University. It was ordered that the Comptroller should refer these proposals to Mr. Gray, chairman of the Board's special committee on outlying properties

President Darden presented to the Board the capital outlay requests for the University for the years 1956 to 1962, as presented to the Governor's Commission on State Capital Outlays, and summarized below.

After discussion of these projects the President said that he would address letters to members of the Board setting forth these proposals, and that he would also submit to the individual Visitors by letter the proposed outlays for Mary Washington College

The Rector reminded the Board that the request received from Professor Allan Gwathmey to appear before the Board with Professor Runk to make a statement on athletic policy had been declined, out of respect for the University Senate, whose request to have its Committee come before the Board for the same purpose had then been pending. In view of the fact that the Senate Committee had now been heard at the Board meeting of November 11th, Mr. Black said that he would like to be authorized to invite Mr. Gwathmey and Mr. Runk to appear at a future meeting

The Board resolved that the Rector should issue to Mr. Gwathmey and Mr. Runk the proposed invitation

A brief discussion was held on the meeting of November 11th with the Committee of the University Senate, and President Darden was asked to proceed with the proposed exploratory inquiry among other presidents regarding institutional attitudes toward intercollegiate football

President Darden read to the Board the preliminary draft of a Deed dated November 1st, 1954, prepared by Mr. Edwin B. Meade, conveying to the University of Virginia Alumni Association a parcel of land lying on the west side of Emmet Street and the south side of Sprigg Road. After a discussion in which members requested the elimination of the covenant reference to the Caucasian race, the Board adopted the following resolution, which had been duly moved and seconded

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, and Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized and directed, upon approval by the Governor of such conveyance as required by Chapter 185 of the Acts of Assembly of 1954, to execute a deed of conveyance on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, conveying with special warranty of title to the University of Virginia Alumni Association, in consideration of one ($1.00) dollar, the parcel of land lying along the west side of Emmet Street and the south side of Sprigg Road, in Charlottesville, Virginia, more particularly described by metes and bounds by plat of O. R. Randolph, Engineer, dated July 30, 1954, to be attached to said deed, and being a portion of the property conveyed to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, by deed of Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and others, Trustees, dated Nov. 19, 1949, on record in the Clerk's Office of the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville, in D.B. 148 p.392, provided, however, that the restrictive covenant contained in the draft of said deed submitted to this meeting, denying occupation of the land by any person not of the Caucasian race be deleted from the deed that is executed.

The President discussed studies now in progress by himself, by Mr. Woodward, Bursar of the College, and by a Committee of the College of proposed adjustments in student laboratory fees, laundry charges, and rental charges for dormitory rooms

The Board resolved that President Darden be authorized to set these fees and charges.

President Darden commented on the capital outlay requests of the College for the years 1956 to 1962 as presented to the Governor's Commission on State Capital Outlays. After a brief discussion of these projects, Mr. Darden said that he would submit to each of the Visitors by letter the proposed outlays.

The President said that President Combs had written to request the texts of the Board minutes of 11 December 1953, 8 January 1954, and 12 February 1954, copies of which had not been sent to him following the respective meetings. The Secretary stated that he had sent to Dr. Combs, as usual, the second portions of the minutes of January 8th and February 12th relating to affairs of Mary Washington College, but that the minutes of December 11th, containing no section on the College, had not been sent, references to Dr. Combs might well appear in either section. The Secretary was instructed to send to Dr. Combs the full texts of the minutes of all three of these meetings

President Darden reported in great detail on the administration of the College, on his relations with Dr. Combs, and on the work of other officers and committees of the College

There followed a general discussion of the University's administrative problems, with particular reference to Mary Washington College in the light of the adjustments ordered by the Board on February 12th, and the progress of the College since that date.

The Committee on Mary Washington College was instructed to hold a meeting at Fredericksburg, and to make a report on the College to the Board at the next regular meeting of the Board to be held in Charlottesville on December 10th

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
