---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1955'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
MR. BERKELEY, MR. HARTFIELD, AND MR. POLLOCK APPOINTED VISITORSBOARD MEETINGS ON ALTERNATE MONTHSGIFTS AND GRANTSRESIGNATIONSELECTIONSDISTRIBUTION OF COLLEGE GRADESGRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCESUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSREPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEEMESSRS. GUNN AND WILLCOX PRESENTMESSRS. GUNN AND WILLCOX ABSENTAPPOINTMENT OF A DEAN TO DIRECT EXTENSION WORKMC GREGOR LIBRARY ADVISORY COMMITTEELAND ON ROUTE 250 TO BE RE-ZONEDRETIREMENT REGULATIONSBUILDING PLANSADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION COMMITTEESECRETARY ABSENTSECRETARY PRESENTFACULTY SALARIES AND STUDENT FEESMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSDISCHARGED WORKER'S PROTESTADMINISTRATION OF THE COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. and Mrs. W. H. White, Jr., securities to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund, valued at

$ 17,216.00

From Mr. William G. Brady, Jr., to the University Hospital

500.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the University Hospital for use of the premature nursery

1,200.00

From the James L. Camp Foundation, to the Medical School to set up the House Staff Scholarship Fund

1,800.00

From the Johnson Foundation, to be added to the President's discretionary fund

100.00

From Mr. Clifton Waller Barrett, 551 volumes from the Wegelin Collection of American Poetry, valued at

1,100.00

From Colonel John R. Fox, 38 volumes valued at

430.00

From Mrs. Doris K. Neale, for the Doris Kellogg Neale Fellowship for 1955-56

500.00

From the S. E. Massengill Company, to be added to the urology research fund

2,500.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid

40,516.67

From the University Hospital Nurses' Alumnae Association, to be added to the Fluid Research Fund

2,000.00

From Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, for chemical research under the direction of Dr. Alfred Burger

20,000.00

From the Virginia Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

15,423.00

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

500.00

From Allen-Sherman-Huff Pump Company for research under the direction of Prof. R. M. Hubbard

35,000.00

From Philip Morris and Company, for continued research under the direction of Prof. R. M. Hubbard

1,000.00

From the National Science Foundation, for support of a conference under the direction of Prof. H. L. Alden

6,000.00

From the American Chemical Society, for research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. R. E. Cunningham

6,000.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, McWane, Mears, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Berkeley, Gray, Hartfield, and Howard.

The minutes of the meeting of 12 February 1955, previously distributed, were approved, subject to a correction in Hospital accounts charged off, as noted below.

The Rector introduced and welcomed to the Board Dr. Herbert Chermside Pollock, one of three Visitors appointed by the Governor on February 28th for the four-year term ending 28 February 1959. A certified copy of Mr. Pollock's oath of office, taken before the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County on March 11th, was handed to the Secretary and ordered to be filed

The Rector also announced to the Visitors the appointment to the Board on the same date of Mr. Norborne Berkeley and Col. Joseph Manuel Hartfield, who, like Mr. Pollock, were named by Governor Stanley as a result of the Act of the General Assembly, approved on 2 April 1954, amending Sections 23-70 and 23-71 of the Code of Virginia so as to increase the membership of the Board from fourteen to seventeen Visitors, no more than three of whom may be Alumni of the University resident outside of Virginia. Letters from Mr. Berkeley and Mr. Hartfield which were read aloud to the Board expressed the hope of both to be present at the April 8th meeting, but Mr. Berkeley said it would not be possible for him to attend every month, and he thought it would be better for him to withdraw acceptance of his appointment than to miss a large proportion of the meetings.

President Darden and various members of the Board expressed a strong desire to have Mr. Berkeley on the Board, and the Rector was requested to write to Mr. Berkeley and urge him to delay his proposed withdrawal. A trial period of fewer meetings was proposed, and in the discussion that followed it was pointed out that the May and November meetings are usually held in Fredericksburg, and that it has been customary to hold in June the Annual meeting required by law.

On motion of Mr. Talbott, duly seconded, the Board resolved to hold the meetings as now scheduled for April 8th, June 10th, and September 9th, to omit the meetings scheduled for May, October, and December, 1955, and so on alternately, to refer to the Executive Committee matters of importance arising between meetings, and to have the full Board called by the Rector when an emergency need should require it.

The President announced the following gifts and grants.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. Harold F. Chase, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, as of July 1, 1955

Dr. Woodbury Perkins, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of January 1, 1955.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Joseph L. Blotner as Assistant Professor of English, effective in September, at a session salary of $4,450.00.

Dr. Frederick L. Gwynn as Associate Professor of English, effective in September, at a session salary of $5,800.00.

Dr. Floyd Stovall as Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, effective in September, at a session salary of $9,500.00.

Dr. Philip Y. Paterson as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1955, at an annual salary of $6,000, to be paid from a grant of the American Heart Association.

Dr. Kenneth Boyd Grim as Instructor in Pathology, effective April 1, 1955, at an annual salary of $5,700.00, $3,800 of which is to be paid from the University budget and $1,900 from departmental funds.

Dr. W. Ralph Singleton as Miller Professor of Biology and Director of the Blandy Experimental Farm, at an annual salary of $10,000.00, effective in September.

Mr. A. W. Patrick as Assistant Professor in the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce, effective in September, at a session salary of $4,950.00.

Dr. Walter Aron as Assistant Professor of Physics beginning in September at a salary of $4,950.00.

Copies of a summary of enrollment in College and Graduate School courses and the distribution of College grades for the first semester of the 1954-55 session were laid before the Board.

President Darden invited the Board's attention to the possible confusion resulting from the name of the Graduate School now that various professional schools in the University have independent programs of graduate study. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the School of Graduate Studies be and it is hereby changed to Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 508, 508-a, 511, and 512, aggregating $65,448.54, as recommended by them

President Darden noted a clerical error in the numbers and total sum of the Schedules charged off in February and requested correction. The Board thereupon adopted the following resolutions

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the section of the minutes for the meeting of the Board held on 12 February 1955 entitled UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS be and it is hereby cancelled.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 498, 502 and 503, aggregating $38,307.11, as recommended by them

Mr. Mears, Chairman of the Finance Committee, read to the Board the following report

The undersigned members of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, submit herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds of the University of Virginia, compiled by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, covering the period from January 25, 1954 to January 25, 1955.

As will be observed, the fund had a book value as of January 25, 1955, of $7,026,021.09, whereas the original book value of the General Endowment Fund at the time the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company took over the handling of this fund under an agreement with the Board, was $4,566,051.82, or an increase of $2,459,969.27.

The amount of sales, redemptions and conversions of securities during the year, covering thirty-five (35) separate issues, aggregated the sum of $663,962.95. The sales, redemptions and conversions resulted in a net capital gain to the fund of $93,964.80, which is reflected in the adjusted book value of $7,026,021.09. Purchases of, conversions of and subscriptions to securities, covering twenty-eight (28) issues during the year, amounted to $1,190,522.29.

The gross adjusted income for the twelve month period amounted to $335,501.38, which, when related to the average book value during 1954 (weighted average by months), represented a yield of 5.17%, which compares to the average yield for the year 1953 of 4.89%, and for the year 1952 of 4.87%. The current yield on investments which now constitute the fund, is approximately 4.85% of the present book value of $7,026,021.09, or 3.54% of the current market value of $9,618,670.80.

The Agent turned over to the Comptroller of the University during the year, a sum in the aggregate of $319,668.45, representing net income after all deductions and expenses. The expenses to the University of having the Agent to handle the fund, (together with the four subsidiary accounts), was approximately 24/100ths of 1% of its average book value, and covered supervision and review of investments, as well as custody of the securities and collection of income. The Agent also furnished monthly statements and lists of assets to the Comptroller, the Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the members of the Finance Committee

We desire to call your attention to page 9 of the report, showing the units of investment, whose market value indicate a book loss of $5,000.00 or more, and those showing book gains of $50,000.00 or more. It is interesting to note that the total losses under this schedule aggregated only $39,149.26; whereas the total gains aggregated $1,818,264.81.

It is also interesting to note on page 8 of the report, statistics with respect to the performance of the account over the past five (5) years. As of January 25, 1951, the book value of the account was $5,653,535.84, which has increased annually to January 25, 1955, in the amount of $7,026,021.09, and the market value as of January 25, 1951 was $6,215,282.30, which has annually increased to $9,618,670.80, as of January 25, 1955.

Following discussion it was resolved that the Report be accepted and approved, and filed in conjunction with the accompanying Report and Summary of University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Funds submitted by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company for the period from January 25, 1954 to January 25, 1955.

At eleven o'clock the Messrs. L. B. Gunn and D. S. Willcox, of the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, were admitted to the Board Room and introduced to the Board. There followed an analysis and discussion of the University's investments management and plans and the handling of the various funds. Mr. Gunn and Mr. Willcox withdrew at eleven-thirty.

President Darden commented on the great expansion throughout Virginia of the teaching work of the Extension Division in recent years, and the enlarged responsibilities of its Director. He felt that the importance of the work undertaken merited recognition through the title of Dean, and he requested the Visitors to give consideration to the matter prior to the April 8th meeting, when he would ask for a decision on this matter

The President expressed his regret at having to announce to the Board the resignation, owing to ill health, of Mr. Robert B. Tunstall from the Advisory Committee of the Tracy W. McGregor Library, a collection of rare source materials in American history which is maintained in large part through annual grants from McGregor Fund of Detroit, and is housed and administered in the Alderman Library building as one of the numerous special collections embraced in the Division of Rare Books and Manuscripts. President Darden nominated as Mr. Tunstall's successor Mr. David J. Mays, of Richmond, Virginia, attorney-at-law, Recording Secretary of the Virginia Historical Society, Chairman of the State Library Board, and author of the Pulitzer prize-winning biography of Edmund Pendleton. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that pursuant to the articles of the Deed of Gift of McGregor Fund of Detroit, Mr. David John Mays, of Richmond, be and he is hereby appointed Representative-at-Large to the Advisory Committee of The Tracy W. McGregor Library of the University of Virginia, succeeding Mr. Robert Baylor Tunstall, for the remainder of the five-year period which began on 1 July 1953.

The Board resolved further that the Secretary be directed to convey to Mr. Tunstall the Visitors' good wishes for the prompt recovery of his health and strength, together with the lively sense of gratitude of the Rector and Visitors for his distinguished and constructive services to the University's libraries, particularly The Tracy W. McGregor Library, his able work as Advisor being only one of many notable services that Mr. Tunstall has unselfishly performed for the University over a period of many years

Mrs. Smith, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, read to the Board the following report

Through refra by Mr. Darden, the Buildings and Grounds Committee were approached by Mr. Stevens, Realtor, and W. Max Smith, representing the Braxton Valentine Family of Richmond to ascertain whether or not the University would enter an objection to a proposed rezoning from residential to business of a plot of ground lying between Copeley Hill and Route #250. If a conversion to business is contemplated it is fortunate to have it in the hands of the Valentine Family who contemplate discretion in developing an overall plan with a set-back of buildings and with the intention of creating an architectural unit. Due to the location of the land with business buildings already located to the west and to the east the recommendation of the Committee is that since this area is obviously more suitable for business than for residential purposes the University should enter no protest against the rezoning of the area.

Judge Barksdale

Mr. McWane

Mrs. Smith Buildings and Grounds Committee

The Board resolved that the foregoing report be accepted and approved, and ordered it to be filed.

The President inaugurated a discussion of the problems of retirement, pointing out that professors' retirement is now optional (with the individual only, not the University) at age 65 and obligatory at age 70. Mr. Darden said that the students and the University needed to be protected through extension of this option to the University, and that he had been holding discussions with the faculty toward this end. The Faculty having requested further discussion of the matter, Mr. Darden said that he would not lay the new retirement plan before the Board for consideration and action until the April 8th meeting.

The President, the Deans, and the Comptroller, Mr. Darden said, ought to be retired without option to extend their services at age 65, but Deans who are still vigorous might well be continued as professors to a later age, up to age 70. Mr. Darden stated that he did not wish to continue as President beyond age 65, and he laid before the Board a letter from Mr. Shea, University Comptroller, stating an intention to retire at the end of the regular session following his 65th birthday.

Under Virginia law, Mr. Darden pointed out, administrative personnel of the University may retire on the Virginia Retirement System pensions and Social Security at age 65, with such retirement obligatory at age 70, but Virginia law does not prevent the Board from retiring administrative officers at an earlier age. Teaching personnel now retire on Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (successor to Carnegie) pensions, but are shortly to take a vote on joining the Social Security System under the new legislation covering college teachers

President Darden reported briefly on the visit to the University by the Governor's Commission on Capital Outlays to consider the building plans for the next six years as recently submitted. Mr. Darden said that the visit had been a satisfactory one, and that he had found the Commission particularly sympathetic to the critical and dangerous situation now existing at the University Hospital.

Mr. Mears reported that his special committee on Administration had held further discussions, but would have no report until a later meeting of the Board. Mr. Mears mentioned that the Committee had included in its deliverations the salary of the Secretary to the Visitors.

The Rector having declared the Board in Executive Session, the Secretary withdrew from the Board room at 12:00 o'clock, being recalled at 12:10. During this interval there was a brief discussion of the Secretary's salary, and the matter was referred to the Finance Committee in consultation with the President.

An extensive discussion was held on the critical need for an increase in faculty salaries in order to hold as many as possible of the abler teachers and attract competent new men to the Faculty. President Darden stated that his latest move in this continuing problem, which has become increasingly serious, had been a further discussion with the Governor, who had agreed to approve a general increase providing that the major part of the cost could be met from increased student fees. The President said that he had moved toward higher fees with the utmost reluctance, as the lesser of two evils and the only available means of preventing deterioration in the quality of instruction. The new schedules would be ready to lay before the Board for decision at the April 8th meeting.

During the discussion, all of the Visitors present expressed approval of the general plan Mr. Darden expressed the hope that applications for admission, now up by the extraordinary figure of 90 per cent over last year's, would not be adversely affected, and that means for additional scholarship help might be found for needy students who would suffer hardship under higher fees Mr. Talbott and others pointed out that the announcement should be made in such a manner as to acquaint students and the public with the necessity. The Rector requested that the new schedules be sent to Board members at the same time they are submitted to the Governor.

The Rector read to the Board a letter from Mr. Fred C. Abbott, Richmond Attorney, requesting a hearing by the Board of a protest by Mr. William Houchins, who was discharged as a laborer at the College some months ago. President Darden said that the man discharged was one of several who had made a joint appeal. He had reviewed the case, denied it, and asked Mr. Charles O'Conor Goolrick to handle it as attorney for the College. The group had then withdrawn the complaint.

On motion of Judge Barksdale, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the Rector refer the letter to the University's Special Counsel.

The Rector reported a telephone call from Mr. Howard, Chairman of the Committee on the College, saying that he would be unavoidably absent from today's meeting. In view of the Chairman's absence, decisions regarding the College administration were deferred.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 1:00 o'clock

The undersigned members of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, submit herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds of the University of Virginia, compiled by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, covering the period from January 25, 1954 to January 25, 1955.

As will be observed, the fund had a book value as of January 25, 1955, of $7,026,021.09, whereas the original book value of the General Endowment Fund at the time the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company took over the handling of this fund under an agreement with the Board, was $4,566,051.82, or an increase of $2,459,969.27.

The amount of sales, redemptions and conversions of securities during the year, covering thirty-five (35) separate issues, aggregated the sum of $663,962.95. The sales, redemptions and conversions resulted in a net capital gain to the fund of $93,964.80, which is reflected in the adjusted book value of $7,026,021.09. Purchases of, conversions of and subscriptions to securities, covering twenty-eight (28) issues during the year, amounted to $1,190,522.29.

The gross adjusted income for the twelve month period amounted to $335,501.38, which, when related to the average book value during 1954 (weighted average by months), represented a yield of 5.17%, which compares to the average yield for the year 1953 of 4.89%, and for the year 1952 of 4.87%. The current yield on investments which now constitute the fund, is approximately 4.85% of the present book value of $7,026,021.09, or 3.54% of the current market value of $9,618,670.80.

The Agent turned over to the Comptroller of the University during the year, a sum in the aggregate of $319,668.45, representing net income after all deductions and expenses. The expenses to the University of having the Agent to handle the fund, (together with the four subsidiary accounts), was approximately 24/100ths of 1% of its average book value, and covered supervision and review of investments, as well as custody of the securities and collection of income. The Agent also furnished monthly statements and lists of assets to the Comptroller, the Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the members of the Finance Committee

We desire to call your attention to page 9 of the report, showing the units of investment, whose market value indicate a book loss of $5,000.00 or more, and those showing book gains of $50,000.00 or more. It is interesting to note that the total losses under this schedule aggregated only $39,149.26; whereas the total gains aggregated $1,818,264.81.

It is also interesting to note on page 8 of the report, statistics with respect to the performance of the account over the past five (5) years. As of January 25, 1951, the book value of the account was $5,653,535.84, which has increased annually to January 25, 1955, in the amount of $7,026,021.09, and the market value as of January 25, 1951 was $6,215,282.30, which has annually increased to $9,618,670.80, as of January 25, 1955.

The undersigned members of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, submit herewith a copy of a report and summary of the Consolidated Endowment Funds of the University of Virginia, compiled by the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, covering the period from January 25, 1954 to January 25, 1955.

As will be observed, the fund had a book value as of January 25, 1955, of $7,026,021.09, whereas the original book value of the General Endowment Fund at the time the State-Planters Bank and Trust Company took over the handling of this fund under an agreement with the Board, was $4,566,051.82, or an increase of $2,459,969.27.

The amount of sales, redemptions and conversions of securities during the year, covering thirty-five (35) separate issues, aggregated the sum of $663,962.95. The sales, redemptions and conversions resulted in a net capital gain to the fund of $93,964.80, which is reflected in the adjusted book value of $7,026,021.09. Purchases of, conversions of and subscriptions to securities, covering twenty-eight (28) issues during the year, amounted to $1,190,522.29.

The gross adjusted income for the twelve month period amounted to $335,501.38, which, when related to the average book value during 1954 (weighted average by months), represented a yield of 5.17%, which compares to the average yield for the year 1953 of 4.89%, and for the year 1952 of 4.87%. The current yield on investments which now constitute the fund, is approximately 4.85% of the present book value of $7,026,021.09, or 3.54% of the current market value of $9,618,670.80.

The Agent turned over to the Comptroller of the University during the year, a sum in the aggregate of $319,668.45, representing net income after all deductions and expenses. The expenses to the University of having the Agent to handle the fund, (together with the four subsidiary accounts), was approximately 24/100ths of 1% of its average book value, and covered supervision and review of investments, as well as custody of the securities and collection of income. The Agent also furnished monthly statements and lists of assets to the Comptroller, the Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the members of the Finance Committee

We desire to call your attention to page 9 of the report, showing the units of investment, whose market value indicate a book loss of $5,000.00 or more, and those showing book gains of $50,000.00 or more. It is interesting to note that the total losses under this schedule aggregated only $39,149.26; whereas the total gains aggregated $1,818,264.81.

It is also interesting to note on page 8 of the report, statistics with respect to the performance of the account over the past five (5) years. As of January 25, 1951, the book value of the account was $5,653,535.84, which has increased annually to January 25, 1955, in the amount of $7,026,021.09, and the market value as of January 25, 1951 was $6,215,282.30, which has annually increased to $9,618,670.80, as of January 25, 1955.
