---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1955'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
BOARD TO MEET ON FEBRUARY 4thGIFTS AND GRANTSGIFT FROM HENRY E. MCWANE TO RUCKER HOMEDEATH OF SIDMAN PARMELEE POOLEDEATH OF CHARLES KIDDER DAVENPORTRESIGNATIONSPROMOTIONELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSMISS DAVENPORT'S REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONCHAMBERLAIN PROPERTYPHI DELTA THETA REQUEST DENIEDLAW SCHOOL ACCEPTANCE DEPOSITPROPOSAL FOR AN ACCEPTANCE DEPOSIT OF $50 FROM ALL ENTERING LAW STUDENTSApplications Received Prior to June 20Applications Received After June 20MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY FEES REDUCEDROOM RENTALS INCREASEDPROPOSED RATES FOR ROOM RENTALSduPONT COMPANY SECURITIESBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEPIEDMONT HOUSING DEVELOPMENTROTUNDA RESTORATIONTENNIS COURT CONSTRUCTIONFOOTBALL AND ATHLETIC CONTROLMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSBOARD TO MEET ON FEBRUARY 4thINVITATION TO MR. SIMPSONDEATH OF MORGAN LAFAYETTE COMBSPAYMENTS TO MRS. COMBSALUMNAE RESOLUTIONSMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY FEES REDUCEDRELEASE OF RESTRICTIONS ON REICHEL PROPERTYCHANGE OF TITLE OF ADMINISTRATOR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Seven Society to install a drinking fountain in Madison Bowl

$ 77.77

From Mr. David McCord Wright, 1750 books and papers for the Alderman Library, valued at

606.50

From Mr. and Mrs. Cammann C. Duke, 300 volumes and manuscripts for the Alderman Library valued at

816.50

From Mr. Linton Massey, for support of the Bibliographical Society

$ 500.00

From the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for a post-graduate fellowship in chemistry for the 1955-56 session

3,544.00

From the E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for a post-graduate fellowship in physics for the 1955-56 session

2,944.00

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

9,500.00

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, for a pre-doctoral fellowship in physics for the session of 1955-56

3,300.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship in physics for the session of 1955-56

1,500.00

From Colonel John R. Fox, books for the Alderman Library valued at

203.50

From the United Daughters of the Confederacy, for the Woodrow Wilson Scholarship

450.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for a scholarship in Foreign Affairs

1,200.00

From the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Foundation, for the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

23,700.00

From the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation, for a fellowship in chemistry

3,000.00

From the C. Bascom Slemp Agency, for the purchase of equipment for a chemistry laboratory at the Clinch Valley College

5,000.00

From Dr. John T. Bate, to be added to the Bate Student Loan Fund, securities valued at

1,265.00

From the General Electric Company, for a scholarship in the College

500.00

From the V Club for the V Club Scholarship

244.00

From Mrs. William A. Powe, to the Social Service Department of the University Hospital

300.00

From Dr. Francis H. McGovern, for the Medical Library

250.00

From the Class of 1902 Fund, to cover a scholarship in the Law School

400.00

From the Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. Foundation for research in physics under Professor Stephan Berko (NO PUBLICITY)

5,000.00

From the estate of the late Mrs. Ida Ellis White to be used for the perpetual care and upkeep of the University cemetery

7,000.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, balance due for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1954-55 session

861.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1955-56 session

25,000.00

From the Alumni Association, for athletic grants-in-aid

10,000.00

From various sources, to be added to the Tuttle Memorial Fund

115.00

From the Fund for Adult Education, for the establishment of the University of Virginia Liberal Arts Center for Adults

30,000.00

From Mr. Theodore Barnes, to establish the John Toole Memorial Trust, securities valued at

313.08

From Mr. and Mrs. Peter Belin to establish the Sheppard Royster Cooke Loan Fund

200.00

From the estate of the late Mr. John W. Herndon to be added to the Rucker Home for Crippled Children Fund

100.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, for the Samuel Baker Woods Award

250.00

From the General Motors Corporation for a graduate fellowship in physical chemistry for the 1955-56 session

2,300.00

From Mrs. John W. Harris, for the installation of a memorial window in the University Chapel

2,385.00

From the Charlottesville Branch of the American Association of University Women, for a scholarship in graduate studies

300.00

From the Trustees of the Sarah G. Winthrop Fund to be used for the Law School

1,000.00

From the following persons, for the purchase of a cobalt cancer machine

Mrs. Mary R. White

1,559.25

Mrs. H. Lee Boatwright

899.88

Mr. John G. Boatwright

500.00

Anonymous donor

500.00

From Burlington Industries Foundation, $500 for the Burlington Industries Scholarship and $500 to be added to the general funds of the University

1,000.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association, for research in pharmacology under Dr. C. L. Gemmill

5,076.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

32,500.00

From the American Tobacco Company, for research under the direction of Dr. Alfred Burger of the Department of Chemistry

$ 2,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Professor Alfred Burger

8,439.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Dr. Vincent Hollander of the School of Medicine

14,173.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Dr. G. C. Pitts, of the Department of Physiology

4,452.50

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Professor L. G. Hepler, of the Department of Chemistry

9,700.00

From the Upjohn Company for research under the direction of Drs. Parson and Crispell of the Department of Internal Medicine

3,500.00

From the R. E. McConnell Foundation, to further the studies of allergic diseases, under the direction of Dr. Oscar Swineford of the Department of Internal Medicine

1,000.00

From Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, for research under the direction of Dr. W. P. Anslow of the Department of Physiology

5,122.00

From the Common Cold Foundation, For research under the direction of Dr. Catherine Russell of the Department of Microbiology

6,000.00

From the Pfizer Laboratories, for research under the direction of Dr. C. J. Frankel, of the Department of Orthopedics

500.00

From the United States Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the Medical faculty

Dr. C. L. Gemmill

8,088.00

Drs. Klingman and Suter

15,972.00

Dr. D. C. Wilson

10,000.00

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter

6,152.00

Dr. P. Y. Patterson

8,694.00

Dr. D. C. Wilson

15,000.00

Dr. William Parson

11,385.00

Dr. W. O. Klingman

5,175.00

Dr. G. C. Pitts

5,806.00

Drs. Klingman and Suter

10,000.00

Dr. E. D. Brand

8,510.00

Dr. C. E. Wheeler

9,027.00

Dr. J. L. Guerrant

4,715.00

Dr. W. A. Volk

7,130.00

From the Ciglia Oil Burner Company, for research in chemical engineering under the direction of Professor R. M. Hubbard

3,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Professor J. W. Cole of the Department of Chemistry

15,000.00

From the Virginia Heart Association, for research under the direction of Dr. George Minor of the Department of Surgery

3,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of Professor Stephan Berko, of the Department of Physics

8,416.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in physics under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

5,750.00

From Mr. and Mrs. Philip G. Rust, property in Florida valued at

85,000.00

Present

Proposed

Houses

Double

$150.00

$ 175.00

Single

200.00

225.00

Double as single

225.00

260.00

Halls

Double

225.00

250.00

Corner double

235.00

260.00

Triple

160.00

185.00

Lawns and Ranges

Double

150.00

175.00

Single

225.00

260.00

Bach Row

200.00

225.00

Randall and Levering

Double

150.00

175.00

Single

200.00

225.00

Corner double

160.00

185.00

Mary Munford

Double

$180.00

$ 200.00

Single

225.00

250.00

Double as single

247.50

275.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Berkeley, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, Hartfield, Howard, McWane, Mears, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Mr. Gray

The minutes of the meeting of 24 September 1955, previously distributed, were approved

The Board resolved that the next meeting of the Board, which would normally fall on the second Saturday of February, be held on Saturday, February 4th

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants

President Darden informed the Board of a timely gift from Mr. McWane of the piping for the service connections of the Rucker Home, and expressed his warm thanks. The Rector assured Mr. McWane of the appreciation of the Board for this generous action to advance the progress of the new home for crippled children

President Darden announced to the Board the death on 28 October 1955 of Dr. Sidman Parmelee Poole, Professor of Geography since September, 1946. There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Colonel Poole was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to Mrs. Poole the sympathy of the Visitors, and to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board in Colonel Poole's death and its gratitude for his devoted and valuable services to the University

President Darden announced to the Board the death on 5 December 1955 of Dr. Charles Kidder Davenport, Associate Professor of Philosophy, who had served on the University's staff since 1929. There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Davenport was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to Mrs. Davenport the sympathy of the Visitors, and to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board in Mr. Davenport's death and its gratitude for his devoted and valuable services to the University

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. Raymond Stokes, Instructor in Clinical Pathology, as of October 31, 1955, to take a position at the Glens Falls Hospital, Glens Falls, N.Y.

Dr. James Hubert Gary, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering as of February 1, 1956, to take a position at the University of Alabama

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:

Dr. Katherine Patricia M. Andrews, from Instructor in Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology as of November 1, 1955.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty.

Miss Marion Browder as Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of August 15, 1955, at an annual salary of $4,400

Mr. Willard E. Stainback as Lecturer in Architecture, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $1,500.

Dr. Edward H. Fite, as Instructor in Urology, effective October 1, 1955, at an annual salary of $5,000. This is a replacement for Dr. Passaretti.

Dr. Raymond S. Blackman as Clinical Instructor in Medicine as of September 1, 1955, at a salary of $1,333.00 per year

Dr. Thomas R. Johns, II, as Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of January 1, 1956. It is expected that he will be paid from a Public Health Grant, but in the event this does not become available, he will be paid from departmental funds. His salary will be $11,000 per year

Mr. H. G. Larew as Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, as of February 1, 1956, at a session salary of $6,500.00

Dr. James A. Newcome, as Visiting Lecturer in Neurology, effective September 1, 1955, at no salary from the University

Dr. Manfred Kydan, as Visiting Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, as of September 1, 1955, at no salary from the University

Dr. J. Adrian Rich, as Visiting Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, as of September 1, 1955, at no salary from the University

Dr. Leo J. Falk, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine as of November 1, 1955, at no salary from the University

Mr. T. Coleman Andrews as Visiting Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration as of the beginning of the second semester of the session of 1955-56, at no salary from the University

Mr. Almarin Phillips as Visiting Assistant Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration as of February 1, 1956, at a salary of $1,500.

Mrs. Allie Jamison Davis as Acting Instructor in Nursing, as of September 1, 1955, at an annual salary of $3,456.00

Dr. Charles V. Crittenden as Acting Associate Professor of Geography for the second semester of the current session at a salary of $3,000 for the semester.

Dr. John Roark as Instructor in Medicine as of January 1, 1956, at no salary from the University

Miss Mary Belle George as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1955, at a session salary of $3,800.

Mr. Stanley Horton Botts as Lecturer in Accounting in the Clinch Valley College, as of September, 1955, at a session salary of $3,600

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointment.

First Lieutenant Alfred L. Thieme, as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, to be assigned some time during the second semester, date yet unknown, at no salary from the University

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge of as uncollectible accounts Schedules 544, 555, 558, 559, 563, 566, 567, 571, 574 and 575, aggregating $108,295.89, as recommended by them

President Darden presented a letter of 14 December 1955 from Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Director of Admissions for the College, requesting authority to admit Miss Rebecca Davenport, a third-year student at Hollins College whose father has died during the present session. In recommending Miss Davenport's admission, Mr. Bice said that her application has not yet been received, but is expected shortly, and there is a question whether to regard her as a daughter of a professor or of a former professor.

On motion of Mr. Talbott duly seconded, the Board resolved that the established policy of the University be adhered to in considering an application from Miss Davenport if an application is received.

The President presented a letter of 16 December 1955 from the Comptroller regarding the property owned by Mr. Bernard P. Chamberlain adjacent to the University. Mr. Chamberlain wishes to sell the property to the University or to divide it into four lots and obtain four rights-of-way from the University.

After some dissenting opinions were expressed regarding additional rights of way, the matter was carried over to the next meeting

President Darden laid before the Board a letter from the Comptroller conveying a request from the Phi Delta Theta fraternity to purchase a building site on the west side of Carr's Hill.

The Board resolved that the request be denied.

The following proposal from the School of Law was recommended by the President for adoption

Beginning with the entering class of 1956 all applicants who have been accepted must deposit $50 with the Law School Admission Office on or before June 20 or within one week of acceptance, whichever is later. The purpose of such deposit is to facilitate the Law School in determining the number of entering students in order not to prejudice delayed applications. All deposits will be credited on tuition. Refunds will be granted on request if received on or before June 20.

Requests for refunds received after June 20 will be granted only for compelling cause, such as illness or military service

All applications submitted after June 20 must be accompanied by a tuition deposit of $50. Requests for refunds will be granted only if the application is rejected or for compelling cause, such as illness or military service.

After discussion the Board resolved that the foregoing proposal be approved and adopted.

President Darden presented a recommendation by the Dean of Medicine, concurred in by the Dean of Mary Washington College and approved by the Comptroller of the University, that the tuition fee for the course in Medical Technology be reduced from the present schedule of $210.00 to $100.00

Following a discussion of the matter the Board resolved accordingly that the tuition fee for Medical Technology be reduced to $100.00 for all students

The President laid before the Board a letter of 7 November 1955 from the Comptroller recommending increases in rentals of dormitory rooms in the University of $25.00 and $35.00 per session, in accordance with the following schedule, in order to meet operating costs:

The Board resolved after discussion that the higher rentals as set forth in the foregoing schedule be approved and adopted effective for the 1956-1957 session

Mr. Mears, quoting from a long letter from the State Planters Bank, University fiscal agent, reported that the Finance Committee had overruled one of the Bank's proposals for sales of certain stocks and the purchase of bonds as a means of bringing total investments into better balance, namely, the sale of a portion of the stocks held by the University in the E. I. du Pont de Nemours Company. After consulting with Messrs. Gray and Talbott, Mr. Mears had directed the Bank to retain all of the du Pont stocks. The Committee had been moved in part, Mr. Mears said, by a high regard for du Pont stocks as investment property and confidence in the current favorable outlook for these stocks, and in part out of courtesy to the du Pont family who donated these securities to the University. Mr. Mears requested the Board's opinion on (1) the current decision of the Finance Committee and (2) the policy to be followed in regard to du Pont stocks.

After extensive discussion the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the recent decision of the Finance Committee of the Board to retain all the University's present holdings of securities of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours Company be and it is hereby approved

RESOLVED further that the foregoing resolution of approval of a specific action shall carry for future policy no implication of a special sentimental attachment for du Pont stocks, which now constitute 18 per cent of the total value of the University's common stocks, that, in the absence of special stipulations by a donor, all stocks shall be considered purely on the basis of their soundness and value to the University as investment property, with due regard for diversification in accordance with prudent investment policy.

Mrs. Smith read to the Board the following report:

The Buildings and Grounds committee met last night and herewith offer the following recommendations.

1\. That the architectural plans designed by Frederick Nichols for six houses and the apartment house to be erected in the Piedmont area be approved. The plans have been carefully examined and are exhibited for your observation.

2\. That in anticipation of the interior restoration of the Rotunda, a model be made according to the Jeffersonian design. Mr. Nichols stated that the complete set of plans for the Rotunda\* \*are preserved in the Alderman Library and that the Rotunda and the National Capitol are the only public buildings in this country having documentary plans. He further added that the restoration of the interior of the Rotunda would produce one of the handsomest buildings in America

are preserved in the Alderman Library and that the Rotunda

Mrs. Smith laid before the Board for inspection and discussion Professor Nichols' plans referred to in the foregoing Report of her Committee.

On Mrs. Smith's motion, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the plans as exhibited for six faculty houses and an apartment house at Piedmont be approved

On motion of Colonel Hartfield, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with the Piedmont Housing Project as outlined and to expand it over the entire 14-acre tract on the basis of the plans exhibited, the financing to be arranged at the discretion of the President.

Mrs. Smith discussed the projected restoration of the Rotunda to its original Jeffersonian plan of three large oval rooms on the main floor with an upper dome room built to the scale of the interior of the Pantheon at Rome. Mrs. Smith spoke of the long hope of finding funds for the restoration, and reported a suggestion by President Darden that a model of the original interior be constructed to show the original proportions.

The Board resolved that the President by authorized to have a model constructed showing the original arrangement of the Rotunda rooms

At the Rector's request Mr. Talbott, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, laid before the Board copies of a letter and enclosure of 3 October 1955 from Professor Mortimer M. Caplin, Chairman of the Athletic Council, to President Darden reporting certain inquiries regarding tennis court construction made by Mrs. Henry B. Mulholland and recommending the construction of six new tennis courts (at a roughly estimated cost of $24,000), the improvement and better maintenance of the present courts, and the designation of Mrs. Mulholland as a solicitor of funds for these purposes.

After considerable discussion the matter was referred back to the Athletic Committee, on motion by Mr. Gravatt duly seconded, with the request that a formal motion be drafted for consideration by the full Board, this draft to be favorable to construction and improved maintenance of tennis courts, but to take cognizance of the following objections raised during the discussion. 1) The Board cannot commit itself to new construction expenditures for which funds are not available, 2) the University cannot be committed to special maintenance of tennis courts beyond the share available in the budget for all maintenance, 3) Solicitation of funds for this purpose must be under the President's direction so as to avoid conflict with the Alumni Fund and University solicitation for other urgent needs, 4) Private donations for this purpose will be welcomed, but neither Mrs. Mulholland nor any other private individual should be specifically designated by the Board of Visitors to raise funds for this project.

Mr. Talbott laid before the Board an original and copies of a Report dated 10 December 1955 on recent discussions with the faculty and on recent developments and attitudes regarding athletic policy and control. The Report was ordered to be filed.

At the Rector's request President Darden discussed a proposed meeting of college and university presidents at Natural Bridge on December 19th in response to a suggestion by Senator Willis Robertson. Mr. Talbott suggested that the President could not do better at the meeting than to report just what our present policies actually are, and invite suggestions for improvement.

The Board resolved that its next meeting, which would normally fall on the second Saturday in February, be held on Saturday, February 4th at the President's Office

Dr. Howard having reported to the Board, during a discussion of current developments at the College, that Dr. Grellet C. Simpson would be in Charlottesville on the evening of Friday, February 3rd to attend a meeting of the Visitors' Committee on Mary Washington College, it was resolved by the Board that Dr. Simpson be invited to attend the meeting of the Board on February 4th.

President Darden announced to the Board the death on 25 October 1955 of Dr. Morgan Lafayette Combs, who was President of Mary Washington College from 1929 until April 1955, and has been since that date a staff member of the College on leave. There were expressions from the Board of regret for Dr. Combs' death and for the long illness that preceded it, of appreciation for Dr. Combs' devotion to the College and for his notable services in building up its strength during all the years of its attachment to the University prior to his own ill health. The Secretary was directed to record these expressions in the permanent minutes and to convey to Mrs. Combs the sympathy of the Visitors

President Darden spoke of the heavy expenses borne by Mrs. Combs during the many months of Dr. Combs' illness, and recommended approval of a request from her that the salary granted on 8 April 1955 to Dr. Combs from private funds of the University be paid to her

The Board resolved that the unpaid balance of the year's salary of $9,400 appropriated for payment to Dr. Morgan L. Combs by the Board on 8 April 1955 from private funds of the University be paid to Mrs. Combs.

The Rector laid before the Board a copy of resolutions in memory of Morgan L. Combs adopted by the Fredericksburg Chapter of the Alumnae Association.

President Darden presented a recommendation by the Dean of Medicine, concurred in by the Dean of Mary Washington College and approved by the Comptroller of the University, that the tuition fee for the course in Medical Technology be reduced from the present schedule of $210.00 to $100.00

Following a discussion of the matter the Board resolved accordingly that the tuition fee for Medical Technology be reduced to $100.00 for all students

President Darden again brought to the attention of the Board the matter of release by The Rector and Visitors of the residential restriction on property at the Southeast corner of William Street and College Avenue in Fredericksburg, Virginia. He reminded the Board that it had considered the matter at its meeting held on April 8, 1955. At that time the Board had before it a letter from Mr. Swart, Recorder of the Vestry of Trinity Church, Fredericksburg, dated March 31, 1955, requesting release from the residential restriction on said property which the Vestry desired to purchase as the site for the proposed new church, and letter from Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College, dated April 2, 1955, recommending the requested waiver. The Board adopted a resolution on April 8th, 1955, that the waiver be granted, subject to review by the University's Attorney, provided that the release of restrictions should apply "to church construction and to no other kind."

It now transpires, the President stated, that the property in question is being purchased by The Trustees of the Diocesan Missionary Society of Virginia, a Virginia corporation, for the purpose of erecting a church, student center for young ladies of Mary Washington College, a parish house, and probably as the Diocesan Headquarters of the Episcopal Church. Under these circumstances, it was thought by Counsel for The Trustees of the Diocesan Missionary Society that the resolution of the Board adopted April 8, 1955, confining the release of restriction "to church construction and to no other kind" was not broad enough to authorize the erection of a student center, parish house and headquarters for the Diocesan Missionary Society. The President then presented to the Board a letter from William K. Goolrick to Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University, dated October 29, 1955, requesting that the release of restrictions should apply to "Church, Religious or Educational purposes and to no other kind." Mr. Darden also presented to the Board a copy of the proposed deed from The Rector and Visitors to the Trustees of the Diocesan Missionary Society of Virginia releasing the property in question from the residential restrictions thereon insofar as it affects the use of said tract or parcel of land for Church, Religious or Educational purposes and to no other kind

After discussion and careful consideration, upon motion duly seconded, it was,

RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, as owner of certain property in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, acquired from Frank H. Reichel and wife, by deed dated August 30, 1946, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of the City of Fredericksburg in D.B. 82 p. 340, release from the residential restrictions applicable thereto, certain property at the southeast corner of William Street and College Avenue in Fredericksburg, Virginia, sold by The Fredericksburg Aquaduct Company, Incorporated to The Trustees of the Diocesan Missionary Society of Virginia, insofar as it affects the use of the above described tract or parcel of land for Church, Religious or Educational purposes and to no other kind,

RESOLVED FURTHER, that, Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute such release in the form as presented to this meeting, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the seal of the corporation to said release and to attest the same

Mr. Coxe, Chairman of the special Committee on Change of Title of the Administrator of Mary Washington College, read to the Board the following proposed addition to the resolution adopted at the meeting of 10 June 1955 relative to the change of title of the chief administrative officer of the College resident in Fredericksburg

BE IT RESOLVED FURTHER, That Section 23-76 of the Code of Virginia be amended and re-enacted to read as follows (the changed wording being underlined):

"The board shall be charged with the care and preservation of all property belonging to the University. They shall appoint a president, with such duties as may be prescribed by the board, and who shall have supreme administrative direction under the authority of the board over all the schools, colleges and branches of the University wherever located, and they shall appoint as many professors as they deem proper, and, with the assent of two-thirds of the whole number of visitors, may remove such president or any professor. They may prescribe the duties of each professor, and the course and mode of instruction. They may appoint a bursar and proctor, and employ any other agents or servants, regulate the government and discipline of the students, and the renting of the rooms and dormitories, and, generally, in respect to the government and management of the University, make such regulations as they may deem expedient, not being contrary to law. To enable the proctor and visitors of the University to procure a supply of water, and to construct and maintain a system of water-works, drainage, and sewerage for the University they shall have power and authority to acquire such springs, lands and rights of way as may be necessary, according to the provisions of Title 25."

On motion of Mr. Coxe, duly seconded, the Board resolved that the foregoing addition to the resolution of 10 June 1955 be approved

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
