---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1956'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
ANNUAL MEETING POSTPONED TO JUNE 16thCOMMITTEES OF THE BOARDGIFTS AND GRANTSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSELECTIONSBAD DEBTS CHARGED OFFHUGH E. VINCENT SUCCESSIONCHAMBERLAIN PROPERTYNAMED PROFESSORSHIPSCOMPTROLLER TO REPLACE BURSAR IN STATUTESRILEY LAND IN FALLS CHURCHTENNIS COURT CONSTRUCTIONNEW CONSTRUCTIONBUDGET FOR THE BIENNIUMSCHOOL OF EDUCATION STUDY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Committee for Named Professorships

Mr. McWane, Chairman

Mr. Hartfield

Mr. Berkeley

Committee for the School of Education

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Pollock

Miss Wheeler

From Mr. William Gage Brady, Jr., to the University Hospital

$ 500.00

From Mrs. Doris K. Neale, for the Doris Kellogg Neale Fellowship for 1956-57

500.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the University Hospital for the Maternal Health Clinic

1,000.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the Medical School to be added to the National Fund for Medical Education

1,000.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Scholarship Fund

1,800.00

From an anonymous donor, contribution for a debate prize for students majoring in economics and commerce

150.00

From General Motors Corporation, for a scholarship for the 1955-56 session

700.00

From Miss Helen Cunningham, to the University Hospital to be added to the Cancer Research Fund

500.00

From Mr. Henry C. Taylor, to the Alderman Library for the purchase of the Farrer Map of Virginia

600.00

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

9,500.00

From the family of the late Dr. Joseph L. Lilienthal, to the Medical School for the Joseph L. Lilienthal Memorial Fund

250.00

From various sources, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund

195.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for a fellowship to Dr. Oscar Thorup for the 1955-56 session

6,000.00

From the Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following

Geology Department

1,000.00

Chemistry Department

1,050.00

Cross Fraternity Scholarship Award

1,000.00

Alderman Library

980.00

From the following sources, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Stockham

900.00

Falcon Club

122.50

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research in pathology under Dr. Hoch-Ligeti

13,317.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research in biology under Dr. Rappaport

1,983.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under Dr. Muller, of the Department of Surgery

12,353.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research in engineering under Professor J. C. Mace

40,000.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in biology under Professor Bruce Reynolds

18,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in physics under Professor J. W. Beams

22,588.80

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10.00 a.m. on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Berkeley, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Hartfield, Howard, McWane, Mears, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler Absent: Mrs. Jones. (Note: Miss Dunn was married on 31 December 1955 to Benjamin Thomas Jones)

The minutes of the meeting of 17 December 1955, previously distributed, were approved.

The Board resolved to postpone the Annual meeting from June 9th to Saturday, June 16th

In response to resolutions of the Board as noted below, the Rector named the following special temporary committees

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Mr. B. J. Chandler, Associate Professor of Education, for the second semester of the session of 1955-56 to work with the Reynolds Metal Company as a consultant in school construction.

Mr. William A. Jensen, Assistant Professor of Biology, for the second semester of the session of 1955-56, in order to accept a National Science Foundation Fellowship for research in Belgium

Mr. John K. King, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the second semester of the session of 1955-56

Mr. James S. Constantine, Assistant Professor of Classics, for the second semester of the session of 1955-56

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Mr. Edward S. Overman, Associate Professor of Political Science, as of March 16, 1956, to take a position at the University of Tennessee.

Mr. John B. Chase, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, as of July 1, 1956, to take a position at the University of North Carolina.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers Training Corps program, the President informed the Board of the following appointments

Lt. Col. Aurelian E. Roughton, Jr., as Associate Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1956, at no salary from the University, to fill a vacancy which will occur

Lieutenant Frederick G. Maxon, as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective about the middle of March 1956, at no salary from the University.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to appoint Mr. Benjamin Stillwell Martin as Head Coach of Football on a three-year contract at $10,000 per annum

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Arthur B. Moss as Associate Professor of Marketing in the Graduate School of Business Administration for a period of three years, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $7,000. Mr. William A. Coles as Instructor in English, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,250 if he has received the Ph.D. degree by that time. If he has not received the degree, his salary will

Mr. Francis J. Brooke, III, as Instructor in German for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of     be $4,000 $4,500 for the session. This is a replacement for Mr. Cooke.

Dr. Frances E. Wood as Visiting Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, as of January 1, 1956, at no salary from the University

Mr. William Jensen as Assistant Professor of Biology for a period of three years, as of the beginning of the second semester of the session of 1955-56, at a session salary of $5,000

Mr. Walter Henry Puterbaugh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Chemistry for a period of three years, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000. This is a replacement for Mr. Belew.

Mr. Stephen F. Barker as Assistant Professor of Philosophy for a period of three years, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,250

Mr. James M. Buchanan as Professor of Economics, as of July 1, 1956, at a session salary of $8,800

Mr. G. Warren Nutter as Acting Associate Professor of Economics beginning in February, 1957, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mr. John W. Stewart as Assistant Professor of Physics for a period of three years, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000

Mr. Samuel Patterson Maroney, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Sears Jayne as Associate Professor of English effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $6,000

Mr. John C. Weston, Jr., as Instructor in English beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,250 if he has received his Ph.D. by that time. If he has not received the degree, his salary will be $4,000

Mr. Arthur John Terrence Dibben Wisdom as Visiting Professor of Philosophy for the second semester of the session of 1956-57 at a salary of $4,150 for the semester, with an additional allowance of $500 for travel

Mr. Richard Barron, as Lecturer, part time, in Foreign Affairs for the second semester of the 1955-56 session at a salary of $1,000 for the semester. This will be a replacement for Mr. King who will be on leave

Mr. Matthew Wiencke, as Visiting Assistant Professor of Classics for the second semester of the session of 1955-56 at a salary of $2,875 for the semester. This will be a replacement for Mr. Constantine who will be on leave

Mr. A. M. Fairweather as Visiting Lecturer in Philosophy for the second semester of the 1955-56 session at a stipend of $3,200 for the semester, with $500 additional maximum allowance for travel

The President laid before the Board the following letter from the Comptroller.

The Committee on Bad Debts composed of Messrs. Bryant, Kaulback and the undersigned has reviewed the loans set forth on Schedule 1, totalling $64,790.93 and recommends that they be charged off

For the information of the Board, there is no record that such loan notes have ever been previously charged off. Some of the loans date back to the period immediately after World War I. About three years ago an intensive effort was made to collect all of these old loan notes and some were paid

The Committee on Bad Debts recommends that the student accounts set forth on Schedule 2, totalling $30,850.65, be charged off. These accounts are of two types. The vast majority are balances for Virginia veterans which had to be absorbed by the University under an agreement with the Veterans Administration permitting the University to charge out-of-state tuition for all Virginia veterans. The Veterans Administration authorized this provided no Virginia veteran was penalized thereby. The State auditors feel that the Board of Visitors should authorize these accounts to be charged off, even though they are not actually an obligation of the student to the University

The balance of the accounts represent accounts running back as far as 1930. An intensive effort has likewise been made to collect all of these accounts.

Once the Committee disposes of the sizeable backlog of these accounts, the amount to be charged off each year will be quite small. For example, during the current semester out of total charges of nearly $1,000,000, only $500 is now outstanding

Schedules 1, dated 17 October 1955, and 2, dated 10 January 1956, laid before the Board with the foregoing letter were ordered to be filed with the minutes of this meeting

Following a discussion of this matter, including consultation with Mr. Shea, who appeared before the Board for the purpose, the following resolution, on motion of Mr. Talbott seconded by Mr. Mears, was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Schedule 1 of the Committee on Bad Debts in the sum of $64,790.93, dated 17 October 1955, and Schedule 2 in the sum of $30,850.65, dated 10 January 1956, as submitted to the President and subsequently to the Board in the Comptroller's letter of 24 January 1956, be and they are hereby charged off as uncollectible, as recommended by the Committee on Bad Debts

President Darden laid before the Board a communication from the University's Special Counsel, Mr. C. Venable Minor, pointing out that the adequate handling of the real estate in the Hugh E. Vincent Succession, in which the University has an interest, requires the presence in New Orleans, Louisiana, of a representative of the University legally authorized to make prompt decisions

On motion, duly seconded, the Board thereupon resolved as follows:

WHEREAS, by resolution adopted April 11, 1952, this Board authorized Wayne G. Borah of New Orleans, Louisiana, to act for it in conjunction with the Executors of the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent, Mrs. Mildred Saffold Vincent, the widow and Usufructuary of the decedent, Hugh E. Vincent, and with the other two Naked Owner legatees under the will of the said Hugh E. Vincent, namely - Trinity Church and The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, in the handling of the real estate which forms part of that Succession, and

WHEREAS, under date August 24, 1955, a judgment was rendered by the Civil District Court of Orleans Parish, Louisiana, placing the said Usufructuary and Naked Owners in possession of the said real estate and it is, therefore, necessary that this institution act in conjunction with the said Usufructuary, Mildred Saffold Vincent, and the other two Naked Owners, namely, - Trinity Church and The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, the Testamentary Executors being no longer necessary parties, and

WHEREAS, in connection with the administration of that real estate, it will be necessary from time to time for prompt decisions to be reached by the parties in interest consisting of the widow and Usufructuary, Mildred Saffold Vincent, and the three Naked Owners, and in order to expedite such handling for the benefit of all concerned, it is desirable that the three Naked Owners have representatives in New Orleans authorized to act promptly,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Wayne G. Borah of New Orleans, Louisiana, be and he is hereby designated as the representative of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, generally known and designated as the "University of Virginia", for the purpose of acting in the premises

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the said Wayne G. Borah be and he hereby is authorized and empowered on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any case in which (a) the widow and Usufructuary and (b) the other two Naked Owners concur in that action, to subscribe the name of this institution to an endorsement upon a lease of any portion of the property bequeathed to the said Usufructuary and the said three Naked Owners by the late Hugh E. Vincent, and in which this institution has an undivided naked ownership interest as above set out, which lease shall be for a period not exceeding five years, which endorsement shall read substantially as follows

The undersigned Naked Owners of this property take cognizance of the above lease and if, as and when they come into full ownership of the property, they will assume the obligations of landlord under this lease in accordance with its terms and for the period which it designates

TRINITY CHURCH

By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THE ADMINISTRATORS OF THE TULANE EDUCATIONAL FUND

By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in connection with the execution of any such lease, the said representative is hereby authorized to consent to the charge against this institution of its proportionate part in any expenditures (not in excess of $5,000 for the total of such expenditures in any one case), which under the Louisiana law are chargeable to the Naked Owners of the property in question.

President Darden presented a letter of 16 December 1955 from the University Comptroller enclosing a letter of the preceding November 8th from Mr. Bernard P. Chamberlain of Charlottesville, proposing: (1) that the University purchase for $25,000 his seven-acre tract of land adjacent to Observatory Mountain connecting University land on the south with the American Red Cross tract on the north, and (2) that if this purchase be declined, then that the University grant three additional rights of way to this tract

The Board resolved after discussion that both of these proposals be declined

Having reminded the Board of the discussion at the September 9th meeting relative to Professor Balz's proposal for named professorships, President Darden laid before the Board the following resolution endorsed by Dean Duren as unanimously adopted by the College Faculty on 26 October 1955

1 Resolved that the faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences approves the proposal to define named professorships as honorary titles of distinction, not necessarily associated with the chairmanship of a department.

2 Resolved that the faculty approves the creation of new named professorships to be known as Thomas Jefferson Professorships. It further recommends

(a) that they be awarded on the basis of academic distinction to members of the academic faculty,

(b) that no one professorship be permanently associated with a particular department,

(c) that they carry additional remuneration,

(d) that they be held by the professors so honored for the duration of their tenure,

(e) that a joint committee of the faculty and the Board of Visitors be formed to work out the details of the establishment and administration of these professorships

The President, in recommending the Faculty plan, expressed dissent from (1) the use of the name of Thomas Jefferson for individual professorships, and (2) Proposal 2 (e) for a joint committee of Faculty and Visitors to work out details

After considerable discussion the Board resolved that the Rector appoint a small committee to work with the President in current planning for named professorships.

Mr. Mears, as Chairman of the Finance Committee, read to the Board the following letter, approving its recommendations and laying before the Board other correspondence relative thereto

Mr. Darden suggested that I write you concerning a matter which he and I were discussing, which he would like for you to present to the Board if approved by the Finance Committee

The regulations governing the University of Virginia are set forth in Chapter 9 of the Code of Virginia. Section 23-76 of this chapter provides for the appointment by the Board of a President, a Bursar, a Proctor, etc.

In 1953 the Board, by resolution, created the office of Comptroller. It is our desire that the Board authorize us to seek appropriate legislation to change Section 23-76 to read Comptroller where the word Bursar is now used.

There are three reasons for this request

1\. Some legal documents have to signed as Bursar and others as Comptroller. Mr. Minor and I have to check carefully to determine which is appropriate. In some cases he has asked that I use both titles

2\. Quite a few people go to the Bursar's office and request to see the Bursar and are referred over here. Actually most of them wish to discuss the payment of tuition and fees and should see the Assistant Bursar who directly handles such matters

3\. The most important reason, however, is to free the title of Bursar so that Mr. Moyer, who is now the Assistant Bursar, can be given this title. He is an extremely capable person and I feel should receive such recognition.

The proposed plan of organization would conform more generally to that obtaining in other institutions where the Comptroller is the principal business officer and the Bursar is concerned with the collection and disbursement of University funds, under the general supervision of the Comptroller

Mr. Shea's proposal was recommended by President Darden, who pointed out that under the proposed change the Bursar would be subordinate to the Comptroller in the same way that the Assistant Bursar is at present, that the Comptroller as statutory senior business officer of the University and a direct appointee of the Board would be directly responsible for business management

After further discussion the following resolution, moved by Mr. Mears, seconded by Mr. Talbott, was adopted

WHEREAS Title 23, Section 76 of the Code of Virginia now provides for the election by this Board of a Bursar, but makes no provision for the post of Comptroller, and

WHEREAS, by resolution of this Board adopted on 12 December 1952, the authority and responsibilities of the Bursar were enlarged and the title of Comptroller was conferred upon him as his principal title, with certain of his routine duties deputized thereafter to his chief subordinate the Assistant Bursar,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That in order to indicate properly the rank of the principal fiscal officer of the University and his relationship to this Board, that the word "Bursar" be eliminated from the statute and that the word "Comptroller" be substituted therefor

AND FURTHER BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector be directed to appoint a committee of the Board to petition the Legislature of Virginia to change and amend the said statute as above mentioned, so that wherever the title "Bursar" now appears it shall be replaced with the designation "Comptroller"

After a discussion of the means of implementing the foregoing resolution, the Board resolved, on motion of Mr. Gray seconded by Mr. Howard, that the matter be referred to the special committee headed by Mr. Coxe appointed last September. This was accordingly done by the Rector.

Mr. Gray, as Chairman of the Committee on Outlying Real Estate, inaugurated a discussion of the eight-acre tract of land in Falls Church willed to the University, subject to a life interest now held by two sisters aged 73 and 79, by the late Joseph Harvey Riley. The Town Council of Falls Church desired to purchase it, Mr. Gray reported, for $58,000 as the site of a civic center, and he had accordingly obtained appraisals, one of which had been for $38,000 and two for approximately $56,000.

It appeared in the discussion that followed that the two life tenants are now seriously handicapped by the burden of paying the taxes on the land, that the Falls Church authorities are willing to purchase the tract and give a life lease to the two Riley sisters

There was disagreement as to whether the Falls Church offer ought to be accepted, but general concurrence in an opinion that tax relief ought to be provided for the two sisters if that could be done without prejudice to the University's interest in the property.

Two resolutions were adopted by the Board, as follows

RESOLVED that Mr. Gray's Committee explore with the Falls Church authorities the possibilities of joint development of the Riley tract by the University and by the Corporation of Falls Church

RESOLVED that Mr. Gray shall refer to Mr. C. Venable Minor the following four questions and request his opinion upon them as Special Counsel to the University:

(1) If the University retains the Riley land, what steps can be taken (consistent with the University's interests) to relieve the tax burden for the two life tenants?

(2) Can the Riley real estate be condemned for public use?

(3) If the University sells this Falls Church real estate, what freedom will the University then have, under the terms of Joseph Harvey Riley's will, as to the use of the money realized from the sale?

(4) If the University acquires full title to this real estate, will it then be subject to taxes?

In response to a resolution adopted by the Board on December 17th, Mr. Talbott brought in a draft for a resolution, which was adopted, as amended and seconded by Mr. Hartfield, as follows

RESOLVED, that the conclusions of the Athletic Council respecting need for construction of new tennis courts and the recommendations of the Council in regard thereto, as set forth in its report of October 3, addressed to the President of the University, are approved in general principle, subject to the following qualifications.

(1) Funds for the proposed construction are to be derived from private contribution, which will be welcomed, however, no part of the cost of construction is to be charged to the University budget

(2) There is to be no overriding commitment for maintenance of the courts, when constructed, which will take priority over any other element of annual maintenance charges.

(3) Solicitation for funds to defray the cost of construction shall be under the direction of the President of the University and shall be conducted in such manner as he shall approve, so as to assure the fact that such solicitation will be made consistently with the University's fund raising policy and with the activities of the Alumni Fund.

The Board resolved further that, in connection with the foregoing resolution, the President be requested to consult with the Trustees of the Alumni Fund.

President Darden discussed recent building developments, referring to the Judge Advocate General School dormitory, now under construction, to the project for junior faculty housing at Piedmont, to which the sum of $35,000 in contingent funds has already been conveyed, to the projected development on the Rucker property of the Children's Rehabilitation Center, to be built without State funds, $204,000 in Federal funds having recently been requested to supplement the private funds for the total anticipated cost of $415,000, and to the proposed construction of Newcomb Hall as a student activities center, for which additional funds are needed.

The President discussed in detail the biennial budgetary requests for operating expenses and capital outlay, commenting on the changes made when these were incorporated into the Governor's Budget. Expressing gratification over provision of funds for editing the James Madison papers and other appropriations, the President also pointed out the crippling effect on work of fundamental importance to the University in the deletion of certain capital outlays — such as the funds for purchase of an atomic reactor — and the total omission of some operating funds — such as those needed to fill positions temporarily vacant, including the chair of the Dean of the School of Education, and to maintain the degree program in Nursing.

After further discussion the President stated, in response to a request from Mr. Gray, that Mr. Shea would furnish the Visitors with a memorandum on the Budget.

Mr. Gravatt having raised certain questions regarding the program of the School of Education, the Board discussed this matter briefly and resolved, upon a suggestion from President Darden, that the Rector appoint a temporary committee to study the program and progress of this School

The Rector accordingly named to this committee Miss Wheeler, Mr. Pollock and Mr. Gravatt, Chairman, as noted above.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned

The Committee on Bad Debts composed of Messrs. Bryant, Kaulback and the undersigned has reviewed the loans set forth on Schedule 1, totalling $64,790.93 and recommends that they be charged off

For the information of the Board, there is no record that such loan notes have ever been previously charged off. Some of the loans date back to the period immediately after World War I. About three years ago an intensive effort was made to collect all of these old loan notes and some were paid

The Committee on Bad Debts recommends that the student accounts set forth on Schedule 2, totalling $30,850.65, be charged off. These accounts are of two types. The vast majority are balances for Virginia veterans which had to be absorbed by the University under an agreement with the Veterans Administration permitting the University to charge out-of-state tuition for all Virginia veterans. The Veterans Administration authorized this provided no Virginia veteran was penalized thereby. The State auditors feel that the Board of Visitors should authorize these accounts to be charged off, even though they are not actually an obligation of the student to the University

The balance of the accounts represent accounts running back as far as 1930. An intensive effort has likewise been made to collect all of these accounts.

Once the Committee disposes of the sizeable backlog of these accounts, the amount to be charged off each year will be quite small. For example, during the current semester out of total charges of nearly $1,000,000, only $500 is now outstanding

Mr. Darden suggested that I write you concerning a matter which he and I were discussing, which he would like for you to present to the Board if approved by the Finance Committee

The regulations governing the University of Virginia are set forth in Chapter 9 of the Code of Virginia. Section 23-76 of this chapter provides for the appointment by the Board of a President, a Bursar, a Proctor, etc.

In 1953 the Board, by resolution, created the office of Comptroller. It is our desire that the Board authorize us to seek appropriate legislation to change Section 23-76 to read Comptroller where the word Bursar is now used.

There are three reasons for this request

1\. Some legal documents have to signed as Bursar and others as Comptroller. Mr. Minor and I have to check carefully to determine which is appropriate. In some cases he has asked that I use both titles

2\. Quite a few people go to the Bursar's office and request to see the Bursar and are referred over here. Actually most of them wish to discuss the payment of tuition and fees and should see the Assistant Bursar who directly handles such matters

3\. The most important reason, however, is to free the title of Bursar so that Mr. Moyer, who is now the Assistant Bursar, can be given this title. He is an extremely capable person and I feel should receive such recognition.

The proposed plan of organization would conform more generally to that obtaining in other institutions where the Comptroller is the principal business officer and the Bursar is concerned with the collection and disbursement of University funds, under the general supervision of the Comptroller

The Committee on Bad Debts composed of Messrs. Bryant, Kaulback and the undersigned has reviewed the loans set forth on Schedule 1, totalling $64,790.93 and recommends that they be charged off

For the information of the Board, there is no record that such loan notes have ever been previously charged off. Some of the loans date back to the period immediately after World War I. About three years ago an intensive effort was made to collect all of these old loan notes and some were paid

The Committee on Bad Debts recommends that the student accounts set forth on Schedule 2, totalling $30,850.65, be charged off. These accounts are of two types. The vast majority are balances for Virginia veterans which had to be absorbed by the University under an agreement with the Veterans Administration permitting the University to charge out-of-state tuition for all Virginia veterans. The Veterans Administration authorized this provided no Virginia veteran was penalized thereby. The State auditors feel that the Board of Visitors should authorize these accounts to be charged off, even though they are not actually an obligation of the student to the University

The balance of the accounts represent accounts running back as far as 1930. An intensive effort has likewise been made to collect all of these accounts.

Once the Committee disposes of the sizeable backlog of these accounts, the amount to be charged off each year will be quite small. For example, during the current semester out of total charges of nearly $1,000,000, only $500 is now outstanding

Mr. Darden suggested that I write you concerning a matter which he and I were discussing, which he would like for you to present to the Board if approved by the Finance Committee

The regulations governing the University of Virginia are set forth in Chapter 9 of the Code of Virginia. Section 23-76 of this chapter provides for the appointment by the Board of a President, a Bursar, a Proctor, etc.

In 1953 the Board, by resolution, created the office of Comptroller. It is our desire that the Board authorize us to seek appropriate legislation to change Section 23-76 to read Comptroller where the word Bursar is now used.

There are three reasons for this request

1\. Some legal documents have to signed as Bursar and others as Comptroller. Mr. Minor and I have to check carefully to determine which is appropriate. In some cases he has asked that I use both titles

2\. Quite a few people go to the Bursar's office and request to see the Bursar and are referred over here. Actually most of them wish to discuss the payment of tuition and fees and should see the Assistant Bursar who directly handles such matters

3\. The most important reason, however, is to free the title of Bursar so that Mr. Moyer, who is now the Assistant Bursar, can be given this title. He is an extremely capable person and I feel should receive such recognition.

The proposed plan of organization would conform more generally to that obtaining in other institutions where the Comptroller is the principal business officer and the Bursar is concerned with the collection and disbursement of University funds, under the general supervision of the Comptroller
