---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1957'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1957) October 12, 1957
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 12, 1957

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

21 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

DR. DAVIS Y. PASCHALL TAKES SEAT ON BOARDCOMMITTEES OF THE BOARDSPECIAL COMMITTEES ACTIVE AS OF OCTOBER, 1957DEATH OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS A. G. A. BALZGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSPROMOTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONSRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGE OF STATUSCHANGE OF TITLESUMMER APPOINTMENTSALUMNI PROFESSORS ELECTEDMR. KOWNACKI'S SECURITY CLEARANCE CONFIRMEDUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSDORMITORY ROOM RENTALS INCREASEDATHLETIC FEE INCREASEDSTUDENT HEALTH SERVICE FEE INCREASEDAIRPORT MAINTENANCE CONTRACT APPROVEDBURSAR AUTHORIZED TO SIGN CHECKSLAND LEASE-EXCHANGE WITH EQUITABLE REALTY CORPORATIONPOLICE APPOINTMENTSBABCOCK & WILCOX GIFT TO NUCLEAR REACTORPROFESSORS EMERITI ELECTEDNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE SITEATHLETICS RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTSARMY FOOTBALL GAMEPIEDMONT FACULTY RESIDENCE BIDSDEGREES IN CITY PLANNING AND ARCHITECTURAL HISTORYBACHELOR OF CITY PLANNINGI. Required Courses for Admission (General subjects)II. Required Courses Architecture, Planning, Political ScienceIII. ElectivesTypical Three-Year ProgramPROPOSED PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL HISTORYCOLLEGE BOARD TESTS FOR UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONSADMISSION OF SONS OF ALUMNIMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSCOMMITTEE ON THE COLLEGEELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSRESIGNATIONS AND RETIREMENTSLEAVES OF ABSENCERETURNING AFTER LEAVES OF ABSENCESTAFF RESIGNATIONS AND RETIREMENTSPROMOTIONSBELMONT PROPERTYSCIENCE BUILDINGEXECUTION OF CONTRACTS BY THE CHANCELLOR AND BURSAR
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. Smith

Finance Committee

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. McWane

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Smith, Chairman

Mrs. Jones

Mr. McWane

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Athletics Committee

Mr. Berkeley, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Gravatt

Dr. Pollock

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Greear

Dr. Martin

Mr. McWane

Mrs. Smith

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith, Chairman

Judge Bryan

Col. Hartfield

Mr. McWane

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Greear

Col. Hartfield

Committee on Outlying Real Estate

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Jones

Committee on a Site for the Northern Virginia College

Judge Bryan, Chairman

Mr. McWane

From Mr. Langbourne M. Williams, to be added to the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund, securities valued at

$7,200.00

(NO PUBLICITY)

From Mr. Harry L. Carter, to be added to the Harry Lee Carter Scholarship Fund

$1,000.00

From Mr. G. T. Minnigerode, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund

200.00

From Mrs. Nannie V. Howard, for the Estes Vaughan Howard Scholarship

250.00

From the United Daughters of the Confederacy, for the Woodrow Wilson Scholarship

450.00

From the estate of the late Dr. David M. R. Culbreth, for the erection of a Fine Arts Building, securities valued at

611,949.25

From various sources, to be added to the Frank Howard Lahey Memorial Fund

420.00

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

9,000.00

From the May T. Morrison Trust Estate, contribution to the Law School in payment on account of travel expenses of Dean Ribble to and from the meeting of the American Bar Association in London

396.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, to cover three scholarships in the School of Engineering

2,300.00

From the Tennessee Eastman Company, for the Eastman Kodak Fellowship for 1957-58

3,124.00

From the Cincinnati Council on World Affairs, for the Department of Foreign Affairs

250.00

From the Population Council, Inc., to be used toward the salary of Dr. Richard F. Shaw, Assistant Professor of Genetics

1,500.00

From the following sources, to be added to the Mott Cancer Fund

Mrs. Russell Mott

500.00

H. C. Mott

200.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

605.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

500.00

From the Civil Air Patrol of Virginia, for teacher scholarships in aviation education

2,401.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in physics for the session of 1957-58

2,600.00

From various sources, to be added to the D. C. Smith Memorial Fund

580.00

From the Virginia Society for Crippled Children, for a scholarship for the 1957 summer session

350.00

From the American Foundation for Allergic Diseases, for a fellowship in the Medical School for the summer of 1957

500.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, balance due for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1956-57 session

12,011.35

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

575.00

From the Virginia Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

2,500.00

From the American Cyanamid Company, for medical research fellowships

1,200.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in chemistry for the 1957-58 session

3,602.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for a postgraduate fellowship in physics for the 1957-58 session

3,794.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for the following fellowships for the 1957-58 session

Dr. Oscar Thorup

6,000.00

Dr. Dean Warren

6,000.00

Dr. T. R. Johns

6,000.00

From the Institute of Life Insurance, to cover the cost of a workshop in Family Finance Education during the 1957 summer session

10,573.00

From the Ford Foundation, for a fellowship in economics

4,524.00

From the Union Carbide Corporation, for a fellowship in physics for the 1957-58 session

3,278.00

From the National Fund for Infantile Paralysis, for a scholarship in the Medical School for the summer of 1957

200.00

From the English Speaking Union, Charlottesville Branch, for a fellowship for the session of 1957-58

$1,000.00

From the Radio Corporation of America, an undesignated gift for cooperating with RCA in the "Tuition and Refund Plan" for its employees enrolled at the University

100.00

From the Winthrop Laboratories, to the Medical School in support of a clinical study under the direction of Dr. John B. Gorman

300.00

From the California Research Corporation, in support of research in the Department of Chemistry

10,000.00

From the Virginia Heart Association, to the Medical School for fellowships and grants-in-aid for cardiovascular research

17,575.00

From the Hoffmann-La Roche Company, to the Medical School in support of metabolic research

10,000.00

From Engineering Alumni, in support of faculty salaries

2,546.29

From the Atomic Energy Commission, to the Engineering School toward the expenses of Prof. Iachetta to attend the Nuclear Program at Brookhaven National Laboratory for the summer of 1957

657.74

From the estate of the late Emily Clark Balch, to be added to the endowment funds of the University

16,197.50

From the A. P. Sloan Foundation, for research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. Loren Hepler (NO PUBLICITY)

8,050.00

From the A. P. Sloan Foundation, for research in physics under the direction of Prof. Stephan Berko (NO PUBLICITY)

13,325.00

From the Relm Foundation, for research under the direction of Prof. J. M. Buchanan, Dept. of Economics (NO PUBLICITY)

10,000.00

From the Virginia Heart Association, for research under the direction of Dr. J. E. Wood, of the Medical School

4,500.00

From the William Volker Fund, in support of the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy and Social Philosophy

145,000.00

(NO PUBLICITY)

From the Council on Library Resources, to the Alderman Library for a closed-circuit TV application

41,500.00

From the American Chemical Society, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. R. E. Cunningham

9,300.00

From the American Cancer Society, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Dr. Alfred Burger (NO PUBLICITY)

6,670.00

From the American Cancer Society, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. Hoch-Ligeti, of the School of Medicine (NO PUBLICITY)

5,159.00

From the Common Cold Foundation, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Catherine Russell, of the School of Medicine

7,446.00

From the National Science Foundation, for the purchase of equipment for the Department of Biology

8,000.00

From the National Science Foundation, for work on the laboratory at the Mountain Lake Biological Station

5,200.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. T. I. Crowell

14,000.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. J. N. Dent

5,899.50

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

160,914.21

Dr. W. R. Singleton

10,843.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, of the Dept. of Chemistry

19,910.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research in physics under the direction of Drs. G. H. Miller and R. A. Lowry

21,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the directions of Dr. A. E. Feller, of the School of Medicine

9,254.00

From the Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

7,500.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter

25,000.00

Dr. Fugene Brand

15,500.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

25,000.00

Dr. Chalmers Gemmill

$8,280.00

Dr. William Parson

11,500.00

Dr. William Parson

9,085.00

Dr. W. A. Volk

7,130.00

Dr. Grover C. Pitts

4,364.00

Dr. Oscar A. Thorup

6,982.00

Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik

7,762.00

Dr. W. Dean Warren

9,142.00

Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell

11,500.00

Dr. Oscar Swineford

6,957.00

Dr. C. E. Wheeler, Jr.

8,518.00

Dr. Alfred Burger

15,921.00

Dr. C. Hoch-Ligeti

14,950.00

Dr. Eugene Brand

8,797.00

Dr. W. R. Sandusky

12,995.00

Dr. J. L. Guerrant

4,715.00

Dr. Carl C. Speidel

2,760.00

Dr. R. W. McGilvery

16,928.00

1.

Deficit, year ended June 30, 1957

$4,197.33

2.

Estimated accumulative deficit, year ended June 30, 1958

$10,000.00

Date of birth

Period of service

Age at retirement

Dr. William Edward Bray

1882

1915-1952

70

Dr. Halstead Shipman Hedges

1867

1899-1939

70

Dr. Harvey Ernest Jordan

1878

1907-1949

70

Mr. William H. White, Jr.

1881

1936-1951

70

Mr. Leslie H. Buckler

1890

1929-1956

66

Dr. George Oscar Ferguson, Jr.

1885

1919-1955

70

Dr. William R. Smithey

1881

1919-1952

70

Dr. James Cook Bardin

1887

1910-1954

67

Dr. Maximilian A. J. Barlow

1885

1921-1956

70

Dr. Harry Clemons

1878

1927-1950

70

Dr. Llewellyn Griffith Hoxton

1878

1906-1949

70

Mr. Richard Chapin Jones

1885

1915-1955

70

Dr. William Allison Kepner

1875

1904-1946

70

Dr. Elbert Alvis Kincaid

1884

1922-1954

70

Dr. Ivey Foreman Lewis

1882

1915-1953

70

Dr. Samuel Alfred Mitchell

1874

1913-1944

70

Dr. Orland Emile White

1885

1927-1955

70

Dr. James Southall Wilson

1880

1919-1951

70

Active years on faculty

Elected Professor Emeritus of

Dr. William Edward Bray

1915-1952

Pathology

Dr. Halstead Shipman Hedges

1899-1939

Ophthalmology

Dr. Harvey Ernest Jordan

1907-1949

Anatomy

Mr. William H. White, Jr.

1936-1951

Law

Mr. Leslie H. Buckler

1929-1956

Law

Dr. George Oscar Ferguson, Jr.

1919-1956

Psychology and Education

Dr. William R. Smithey

1919-1952

Education

Dr. James Cook Bardin

1910-1954

Romance Languages

Dr. Maximilian A. J. Barlow

1921-1956

Commerce and Business Administration

Dr. Harry Clemons

1927-1950

Librarian Emeritus

Dr. Llewellyn Griffith Hoxton

1906-1949

Physics

Mr. Richard Chapin Jones

1915-1955

Forestry

Dr. William Allison Kepner

1904-1946

Biology

Dr. Elbert Alvis Kincaid

1922-1954

Commerce and Business Administration

Dr. Ivey Foreman Lewis

1915-1953

Biology

Dr. Samuel Alfred Mitchell

1913-1944

Astronomy

Dr. Orland Emile White

1927-1955

Biology

Dr. James Southall Wilson

1919-1951

English

Semester hours

English 1-2 Composition

6

English 3-4 Literature

6

Foreign Language A third year course in one of the Languages (ancient or modern) listed below, or a second year course in each of two: Greek, Latin, German, Russian, French, Spanish, Italian, or Portuguese

6-24

Mathematics 1-2. Mathematical Analysis

6

Natural Science Biology 1-2, Chemistry 1-2, Geology 1-2, or Physics 1-2

10-12

History 7-8 American History or an alternate course approved by the faculty

6

Physical Education Health Education and two semesters of activity courses

0

40-60

Architecture 11 Graphics

3

Architecture 2 History of Architecture and the Allied Arts

3

Architecture 43-44 Urban and Regional Planning

3

3

Political Science 1, 2 American Government, National Government of the United States, American Constitutional System

3

3

Political Science 7, 8: American Government, Form and Structure of Municipal Government, Law and Practice of Municipal Government

3

3

Political Science 31-32 American Government, Public Administration

3

3

\* \*New courses Planning 3-4 Planning Techniques

3

3

\* Planning 5-6 Planning and Design

3

3

\* Planning 7-8 Planning and Design

6

6

27

27

First Semester

Second Semester

Third Year

Architecture 11 Graphics

3

Architecture 2 History of Architecture and the Allied Arts

3

Economics 1-2 Principles of Economics

3

3

Political Science 1, 2: American Government

3

3

Geography 1-2 Elements of Geography

3

3

History 103, 104 The American Nation from 1861 to 1900

3

3

15

15

Fourth Year

Architecture 43-44 Urban and Regional Planning

3

3

Political Science 7, 8 American Government

3

3

Planning 3-4 Planning Techniques

3

3

Planning 5-6 Planning and Design

3

3

Geography 151 Field Methods

3

Geography 152: Interpretation of Maps and Aerial Photographs

3

15

15

Fifth Year

Planning 7-8 Planning and Design

6

6

Political Science 31-32 American Government

3

3

Economics 101, 102 Public Finance

3

3

History 105, 106 Industrial America in the Twentieth Century

3

3

15

15

First Session

First Semester

Second Semester

English 1-2 Composition

3

3

Mathematics 1-2 Mathematical Analysis

3

3

Natural Science (Physics preferred)

5

5

Foreign Language (French preferred)

3

3

History 7-8 American History

or

History 9, 10 Ancient Near East and Greece, Roman History

3

3

Physical Education

0

0

Total

17

17

Second Session

English 3-4 Literature

3

3

Foreign Language (French preferred)

3

3

History 3-4 Medieval

3

3

Art 5, 6 Elementary Theory and Practice of Drawing

3

3

Architecture 11 Graphics

3

Architecture 12 Derivation of Architectural Forms

3

Architecture 3, 2 History of Architecture and the Allied Arts

3

3

Total

18

18

Third Session

Foreign Language (French preferred)

3

3

History 5-6 Modern European History 1500 to present

3

3

Architecture 29-30 Architectural Construction

3

5

Architecture 7 Architectural History Seminar

3

Architecture 4 History of Architecture and the Allied Arts

3

\*\* \*\*General Electives may be chosen from courses for which the candidate has adequate preparation. Electives

3

3

Total

15

17

Fourth Session

Architecture 9-10 Architectural History Seminar

3

3

Architecture 13 Principles of Design Criticism

3

Architecture 6: History of Architecture and the Allied Arts

3

\* \*History Electives may be chosen from History of England, Industrial America, The Medieval Countryside - Civilization - Towns, History of History, Republic of Mexico - Central America, The Renaissance and the Reformation, American Political and Social History; The Colonial Period. Electives (History)

6

6

\*\* Electives

6

6

Total

18

18

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 9:00 A.M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson, and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Gravatt, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, McWane, Martin, Paschall, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Miss Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Emmett and Jones.

The minutes of the meeting of 7 June 1957, previously distributed, were approved.

The Rector welcomed to the Board Dr. Davis Y. Paschall, who had succeeded Dr. Dowell J. Howard as State Superintendent of Public Instruction (and to ex officio membership on this Board) on 12 March 1957. Dr. Paschall commented briefly on his satisfaction as an Alumnus in serving on the Board, and referred to the problems of his dual role as a member of the Council on Higher Education and the conflicts of duties affecting attendance at Board meetings.

The Board reelected to the Executive Committee Mr. Berkeley, Mr. Smith, and Mr. Talbott, and the Rector re-appointed the other standing committees for 1957-58, as follows

The Rector also announced the following special committees, which will remain in being until their assigned tasks have been completed:

President Darden announced to the Board the death on October 2nd of Dr. Albert George Adam Balz, former Corcoran Professor of Philosophy, who served on the University faculty from 1913 until June 1957, when he retired from active service and was elected Professor Emeritus of Philosophy.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Professor Balz was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for his devoted and valuable services to the University.

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty -

Mrs. H. A. Gurney as Assistant Professor of English at the Clinch Valley College, for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,600.

Mr. Richard D. McKinsey as Instructor in Biology as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $5,000.

Dr. Walton E. Stevens as Instructor in Radiology, as of January 1, 1958, at a salary of $10,000, to be paid from departmental earnings.

Dr. Gerald Goldstein as Instructor in Microbiology, without salary from the University, as of September 1, 1957.

Mrs. Carol D. Lowicki as Instructor in Nursing as of August 1, 1957, at a salary of $4,400 per year.

Mr. Valfrids Osvalds as Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy for the session of 1957-58, at a yearly salary of $6,000, beginning September 1

Dr. David Fairman as Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, as of September 1, 1957, at an annual salary of $5,000, to be paid $3,000 from the departmental reserve fund and $2,000 from departmental earnings, for a period of three years.

Dr. William Kyle Smith, Jr., as Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1957, at a salary of $6,800 per year from the Commonwealth Fund Grant to the O.P.D. clinic.

Dr. Pierre Brutsche Scott as Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology, effective July 1, 1957, at no salary from the University.

Miss Elizabeth Parker as Instructor in Nursing as of June 12, 1957.

Mrs. Madeline Fuchs as Assistant Professor of Nursing for three years, as of August 1, 1957.

Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Instructor in Nursing, as of August 1, 1957.

Mr. Charles J. Salisbury as Assistant Professor of Education for three years, effective in September, 1957, at a salary of $6,000.

Dr. E. Louise Payne as Instructor in Anesthesiology, effective September 23, 1957, at a salary of $10,000 per year, $3,000 of which is to be paid from State funds and $7,000 from departmental earnings.

Dr. Edward B. Stuart as Instructor in Pathology, effective September 1, 1957, at a salary of $5,000 per year, $3,600 from State funds and $1,400 from departmental funds.

Dr. Richard F. Shaw as Assistant Professor of Genetics in the Department of Social and Environmental Medicine, as of August 1, 1957, at a salary of $7,500 per year, to be paid from the Research and Development Fund.

Dr. Philip D. Bradley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration for the session of 1957-58, part-time, at an annual salary of $1,000.

Dr. Miller Shannon Allen as Instructor in Pathology, as of September 1, 1957, at a salary of $5,000 per year, to be paid from departmental funds.

Dr. Carl S. Lingamfelter as Lecturer in Dermatology, without compensation from the University, as of September, 1957.

Mr. Harrison M. Robertson as Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, as of February 1, 1958, at a salary of $1,200

Mr. William H. Sager as Lecturer in Law, for the second semester of the session of 1957-58, at a stipend of $500.

Mr. Herrick K. Lidstone as Lecturer in Law, for the second semester of the session of 1957-58, at a stipend of $500.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Mr. Everard W. Meade as Visiting Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration for the session of 1957-58, to be on leave during the first semester.

Mr. S. Walter Washington as Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. James Havens Bash as Instructor in Education for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. James Herbert Reilly, Jr., as Instructor in Education for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. Robert L. Allen as Associate Professor of Economics for the session of 1957-58, contingent upon the renewing of the grant under which he has been working.

Mr. Stanley J. Zyzniewski as Assistant Professor of History for the session of 1957-58, to work on the research staff of the "Soviet Bloc Foreign Economic Relations Project".

Mrs. Celia Zyzniewski as Instructor in Nursing for one year, as of September 26, 1957.

Miss Carolyn Sloan as Assistant Instructor in Nursing for one year as of August 1, 1957.

Mrs. Virginia Edwards as Assistant Instructor in Nursing for one year as of May 16, 1957.

Mrs. Jane Davis as Instructor in Nursing for one year, as of September 1, 1957.

Miss Cynthia Graves as Assistant Instructor in Nursing for one year, as of September 1, 1957.

Mr. Henry E. Garrett as Visiting Professor of Education for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. A. O. Gianinny as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering for the session of 1957-58.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following appointments be and they are hereby made

Mr. Frank H. Knight as Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence for the academic session of 1957-58, at a salary of $10,000.

Mr. William Faulkner as Writer-in-Resident, part-time, for the second semester of the session of 1957-58.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Mr. John Lewis Longley, Jr., Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, to Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering for two years, as of September, 1957.

Dr. Robert L. Ramey, Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, as of September, 1957.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following elections be and they are hereby cancelled -

Mr. William H. McFarlane as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering for the session of 1957-58. This was acted on at the March 9, 1957, meeting of the Board. Mr. McFarlane has accepted another position

Mr. John Vincent Graham, Instructor in English, to accept a Fulbright grant. He was elected at the June 7th meeting of the Board.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted -

Dr. Jason McClellan, Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1957, in order to enter private practice in Newport News, Virginia.

Dr. Philip Y. Paterson, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, as of July 15, 1957, to take a position at New York University.

Dr. Kenneth Grim, Instructor in Pathology, as of July 1, 1957.

Mrs. Ninalei Bader Poore, Instructor in Nursing, as of July 1, 1957.

Miss Mary Jane Morris, Instructor in Nursing, as of August 1, 1957.

Mr. John C. Sheffield, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education at Clinch Valley College, as of August 17, 1957.

Dr. Cuthbert Tunstall, Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, as of September 15, 1957, because he has moved to Fredericksburg.

Mr. Calvin Deam, Assistant Professor of Education, as of the end of the session of 1956-57, to accept a position at the University of Colorado.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Mr. Robert N. Hoskins, Associate Professor of Physical Education in the College of Arts and Sciences, for the session of 1957-58.

Dr. Edward R. Dyer, Jr., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. Chester Ward Bain, Associate Professor of Political Science, for the session of 1957-58, to teach at West Virginia University.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the status of Mr. W. R. Franke, Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, be and it is hereby changed to Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, effective as of September, 1957.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Dr. Vincent P. Hollander, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, be and it is hereby changed to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Biochemistry.

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee had authorized the President to proceed during the summer with faculty appointments for the present session, subject to final action by the Board at this meeting.

President Darden commented on the work of Professors Whyburn, McShane, Bowers, and Stovall, who had been nominated by the Dean of the College and by the Dean of the Graduate School for the honor of election to rank as Alumni Professors. On the President's recommendation, the Board thereupon adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following professors be and they are hereby elected to the special rank of Alumni Professor, on the condition that all additional emoluments over and above the established salary scale shall be paid in consideration of such services as may be performed during the summer vacation period when the holders of these professorships are not engaged in their regular required duties.

Dr. Gordon Thomas Whyburn, as Alumni Professor of Mathematics.

Dr. Edward James McShane, as Alumni Professor of Mathematics.

Dr. Fredson Thayer Bowers, as Alumni Professor of English.

Dr. Floyd Stovall, as Alumni Professor of English.

Reminding the Board of the provisional election of Professor Stanislaw Kownacki on April 27th, confirmed on June 7th, President Darden informed the Board that Dean Quarles had received on September 7th a letter dated the preceding day from the Office of Naval Research confirming Mr. Kownacki's security clearance.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 694, 697, 698, 701, 704, 705, 708, 711 and 712, aggregating $88,869.58, as recommended by it.

President Darden presented the following letter from the Comptroller:

With the last wage increase, the maintenance costs of our dormitories will be greater than the revenue. I believe that we should raise our charges $25 per student for all accomodations. This would make the charge in the new dormitories $200 instead of the present $175.

Many of our students are well able to pay this and those who would find it a hardship can be helped through University scholarship funds.

I am enclosing a schedule of room charges of thirty institutions, including the University of Virginia. Of these thirty, only two charge less than we do.

After discussion, and on motion of Mr. Gray, duly seconded, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that all dormitory rental charges now in effect be and they are hereby increased by the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per session, effective as of the opening of the 1958-59 session.

President Darden commented on the recent repairs and improvements in the gymnasium that had been studied last spring by the Athletic Committee, and recommended approval of a proposal from the Provost for an increase of $5.00 in the student athletic fee

The following resolution was accordingly adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the present student athletic fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) be and it is hereby increased to twenty dollars ($20.00) per session, effective as of the opening of the 1958-1959 session.

In recommending an increase of $5.00 annually in the Student Health Service fee, President Darden laid before the Board the following memorandum from Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Director of Student Health, whose proposal for the increase had been endorsed by the Provost and the Comptroller:

Basis for the request for an increase in the Student Health Service medical fee from $20 to $25 beginning in the Session 1958-1959.

At the time of the organization of the Department of Student Health in 1938 the unit medical fee was tentatively placed at $15 per session. Due to deficits based mainly on increased costs of hospitalization, the fee was increased in 1950 to $20. Our request for a further fee increase in 1958 is based upon (I) increased costs of operation as reflected in (II) current and estimated annual deficits.

I. Increased costs of operation

1\. Increased expenditures for personnel

a. Merit increases

b. Social Security contributions

c. Virginia Supplemental Retirement System contributions

d. Salaries for new personnel, needed to provide services for a larger student population.

2\. Initial expenditures for equipment due to expansion of Clinic space and facilities.

3\. Increased costs for medical supplies, medications, new vaccines, office maintenance.

4\. Increased expenditures for hospitalization and consultation services.

II. Current and estimated annual deficits

For specific details referable to these needs, please refer to data itemized in our budget prepared for the biennium 1958-1959, 1959-1960, submitted to the Comptroller of the University on June 28, 1957, copy attached.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the present Student Health Service medical fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) be and it is hereby increased to twenty-five dollars ($25.00), effective as of the opening of the 1958-1959 session.

President Darden discussed the uses and needs of the University Airport at Milton, laying before the Board the following memorandum of agreement for its maintenance, recommending approval of the memorandum as requested by Dean Quarles

An agreement to be executed between the University of Virginia and James W. Taylor of Shadwell, Virginia, wherein the University conveys certain commercial privileges at the University of Virginia Airport in return for certain services and obligatory duties assumed by Taylor for the benefit of the University.

The manager shall have concessions and exclusive rights to certain usages of the property to the extent that the exercise of any of them shall not interfere with the University's use of the property and buildings for its own purposes. These rights and/or concessions are:

a. Receipt of hangar rents from storage of privately owned aircraft.

b. Profits from sale of aviation gasoline and oil.

c. Refreshment concession (limited to bottled drinks and packaged snacks).

d. Use of the repair shop.

e. Use of the caretaker dwelling.

f. Use of designated portions of the Administration Building for the conduct of business.

In consideration of the above privileges the Manager shall assume the obligation of paying for expenses and performing duties as follows

a. Maintain classroom, office, waiting room, rest rooms, and shop with requisite heat, light, and janitorial service.

b. Pay all fuel, telephone, and electric bills for the airport.

c. Handle University aircraft in and out of the hangar on request, also provide the same service for private aircraft owners.

d. Make licensed aircraft and engine mechanic services available for work on University aircraft as needed at rates not in excess of those prevailing in the vicinity for similar work.

e. Keep premises in the vicinity of the following buildings neat and orderly, including grass mowing in season

Administration building

Shop

Hangar

Caretaker dwelling

f. Do any and all things required to maintain the status of the University Airport on an "open" basis, including enforcement of all pertinent state and federal aviation regulations.

g. Supervise runway mowing contracts. The runway mowing shall be done by contract let through competitive bids submitted to the University's supervisor and by him awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. Cost of mowing shall be borne by the University.

h. The Manager shall at his expense maintain liability and property damage insurance protecting the University against liability arising out of accidents occurring from the use of the premises by the Manager, and shall submit evidence of insurance coverage to the Supervisor. The coverage shall be

(1) $15,000 covering each accident causing destruction of property.

(2) $25,000 per person with $50,000 maximum per accident, covering bodily injury resulting from a ground accident on that part of the premises used in aviation and by the Manager

The University reserves the right to all portions of the University Airport not specifically mentioned in the above enumeration of rights and privileges and not explicitly required for the conduct of aviation.

The runways shall be available to the public for landings with no fee charged in the case of light aircraft. The runways shall not be available for the conduct of commercial pilot instructions except as authorized by the University's supervising official.

In the event the airport shall be used by a third party to give pilot instructions in an educational program sponsored or recognized officially by the University, an appropriate charge will be levied for partial use of the Airport by said third party and the Manager shall be reimbursed for heat, electricity, storage, etc., furnished in behalf of the aforesaid program.

The University shall assume the cost of maintenance, repair, and improvement of the property except insofar as certain maintenance has been made the obligation of the Manager. The University's Supervisor will direct this activity but the Manager shall be responsible for reporting need for same to the Supervisor.

This agreement may be terminated by either party thereto

a. Upon sixty days' written notice if for cause,

b. At the end of any Commonwealth fiscal year (July 1) at the option of either party, and upon sixty days' written notice

This agreement shall be effective, retroactive to July 1, 1957, upon signature by both parties thereto

FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

Referring to the Board's Resolution of 7 June 1957 authorizing the Bursar to sign checks and perform other delegated duties during the Comptroller's absence in July and August, President Darden discussed the need for an additional University officer authorized to sign checks disbursing University funds whenever a special necessity might arise.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Bursar as well as the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to sign checks disbursing funds of the University.

The attention of the Board was called to the resolution adopted at the meeting of April 27, 1957, in which the proposed exchange was approved subject to final approval of the documents to be drawn and presented to a future meeting

The President stated he had received from Mr. Minor a letter dated September 10, 1957, approving the form of the Deed to The Rector and Visitors from Equitable Realty Corporation and the form of the Contract of Lease from The Rector and Visitors to Equitable.

Copies of the Deed and Contract of Lease were presented to the meeting. The President further stated he had been informed that the Deed to The Rector and Visitors had been executed by all the parties and was ready for delivery, and that the only things remaining to be done were the adoption of a resolution finally approving the transaction and the execution of the Contract of Lease on behalf of The Rector and Visitors.

After consideration of the copies of the Deed and Contract of Lease in the form submitted, upon motion, duly seconded and carried, it was

RESOLVED, that it is deemed proper and for the benefit of the University of Virginia for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to grant to Equitable Realty Corporation a 99 year lease on a triangular strip of land containing 505 square feet belonging to the University of Virginia in exchange for the conveyance by Equitable Realty Corporation to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia of the fee simple title to an adjoining triangular strip of land containing 392 square feet, the purpose of the exchange being to straighten the boundary line between the properties, said strips of land to be exchanged being described in the Deed and Contract of Lease as presented to this meeting and to be in the form of the instruments so presented,

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute said Contract of Lease in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of the University to such instrument and to attest the same,

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that upon delivery to him of a deed from Equitable Realty Corporation, properly executed and acknowledged by all necessary parties, conveying to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the fee simple title to the triangular strip of land, heretofore mentioned, containing 392 square feet, with general warranty, free of all encumbrances, C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to deliver to said Equitable Realty Corporation, said Contract of Lease for execution by that corporation and recordation of the same

The President then brought to the attention of the Board the matter of the University Police. He reminded the Board that several years ago it appeared necessary and advisable for the University to establish its own police force to protect the buildings and grounds of the University and to keep order. Such a force was established, and its members were appointed by the Circuit Court of Albemarle County under the provisions of Sections 15-562-64, 15-569-70 of the Code of Virginia, 1950. However, these code sections required that the persons appointed must be qualified voters and actual residents of Albemarle County.

The President reported that while the procedure above outlined had been fairly satisfactory, he had found increasing difficulty in obtaining qualified men who were residents of Albemarle County. In addition some question had been raised as to the power of the University police to act inside the City limits of Charlottesville. Unfortunately the power of appointment of such special police, under the statutes above referred to, is confined to the Circuit Court and no such power of appointment existed for the Corporation Court of a City.

The President reported the matter had been referred to Mr. Minor, the University's special counsel, who had advised that, under the provisions of Section 18-17 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as recently amended, and under Section 18-19 thereof, both the Circuit and Corporation Courts, upon application by the Board of Visitors, were empowered to appoint conservators of the peace and police to police the grounds of the University of Virginia, who need not be qualified voters and whose residence could be anywhere in the Commonwealth. A plan had been worked out with the Judges of both courts whereby identical orders would be entered appointing the same persons so that the persons so appointed would have jurisdiction in both the City and County. The President explained, however, that in the opinion of the University's special counsel, the Board should adopt a resolution authorizing him, as such counsel, to apply on behalf of the Board to both Courts for the appointment of the persons to act as conservators of the peace and police

A draft of the Court orders above referred to as prepared by Mr. Minor were submitted to the meeting

After discussion, upon motion, duly seconded and adopted, it was

RESOLVED, that C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the University of Virginia, be and he hereby is, authorized and empowered to apply to the Circuit Court of Albemarle County and to the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville, or to the judges thereof in vacation, in the name and on behalf of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for appointment of conservators of the peace and police, for the protection of the grounds and buildings of the University of Virginia located in the County of Albemarle and the City of Charlottesville

The President announced that The Babcock & Wilcox Company, a New Jersey corporation, with principal offices in New York City, had made a gift to the University of certain drawings, designs, specifications and other technical data pertaining to the construction and operation by the University of its proposed swimming pool type nuclear energy research reactor, the gift having a reasonable market value of $150,000.00. In connection with the gift The Babcock & Wilcox Company had requested that a contract be entered into between that company and The Rector and Visitors, under the main provisions of which the University would

(a) Agree to supply to the donor a statement of costs in connection with the construction, erection etc., of, and materials for, the reactor,

(b) To make available to the donor data with respect to tests, experiments and research work conducted in the reactor,

(c) Protect the donor from claims for patent infringements, arising in connection with any equipment manufactured or produced for or by the University in accordance with or by reference to designs, drawings specifications or other technical data furnished under the contract,

(d) (1) Use its best efforts to provide the inclusion of the donor as insured under any policies of insurance taken out covering personal injury and property damage,

(2) Use its best efforts to require waiver in insurance policies of any rights of recovery which the University by way of subrogation or otherwise, may have against the donor,

(3) Take whatever action may be necessary to entitle the University and the donor to the full protection afforded by Section 170 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended

The President stated that acceptance of the gift and execution of the contract above referred to would be subject to the Governor's approval but action, subject to the Governor's approval, was desirable at this meeting to prevent delay.

After consideration and discussion, upon motion, duly made and seconded, it was

RESOLVED, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia, accepts with grateful appreciation the gift of The Babcock & Wilcox Company of drawings, designs, specifications and other technical data pertaining to the construction and operation by the University of Virginia of its proposed swimming pool type nuclear energy research reactor

RESOLVED, further, that upon the acceptance of the gift receiving the Governor's approval and upon approval of the proposed contract between The Babcock & Wilcox Company and The Rector and Visitors, by the Governor, Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute such contract in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal thereto and attest the same, and to deliver such contract to The Babcock & Wilcox Company, but that the execution and delivery of the proposed contract, as aforesaid, are authorized only after the said contract has been exhibited to and approved by the Executive Committee of the Rector and Visitors

In accordance with the Board's Resolution of 7 June 1957, the President nominated for election to the honorary rank of Professor Emeritus the eighteen living former full professors certified by Dean Hammond as having retired at the age of sixty-five, or older, after fifteen or more years of service to the University, as follows

Following a discussion of the distinguished services rendered to the University by this notable group of scholars and teachers, eligible for emeritus rank under the terms and conditions of the Resolution of 7 June 1957, the following resolution was unanimously adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following former professors, who have served on the University faculty for the periods indicated, be and they are hereby elected to the rank of Professor Emeritus, as follows

President Darden presented to the Board copies of letters dated 23 September 1957 and 3 October 1957 from Mr. Henry H. Glassie, of Messrs. Weaver and Glassie, attorneys for A. Smith Bowman and Sons, Inc., and Messrs. A. Smith Bowman, Jr., and E. DeLong Bowman, renewing and extending the offer made on 14 May 1957 of a permanent site at Sunset Hills, near Herndon, Virginia, for the University's Northern Virginia College. The revised offer, Mr. Darden noted, was made at the same time to the University and to the Board of Control for the Establishment of a University in Northern Virginia, and includes the construction of a small lake on the property and of a sewage disposal plant that has been approved by the Virginia Department of Health and the State Water Control Board.

There was a discussion of the proposed permanent college in Northern Virginia as a part of the University. Members noted that there appeared to be little prospect of adequate development of a college in that area without a permanent site. It was pointed out that a basic need, once a permanent site has been acquired, will be capital outlay appropriations for construction of essential buildings, that State appropriations for the 1958-1960 biennium are already under study, and will be made by the Governor and General Assembly during the next three months, hence that further delay in the choice of a site will jeopardize the possibility of action by the University to develop a permanent new college in Northern Virginia as a branch of the University.

The Secretary was directed to communicate with the Board of Control for the Establishment of a University in Northern Virginia, and to inquire as to progress made regarding possible sites, and to invite the views of the Board of Control as to appropriate action that the University might take at this time toward attainment of the common objective of the two boards.

Mr. Berkeley, as Chairman of the Athletics Committee, laid before the Board copies of "Intercollegiate Athletics Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the Period July 1, 1956 to June 30, 1957". Summarizing the contents of the Report, Mr. Berkeley invited inspection by the several Visitors and requested the Secretary to submit it in triplicate to the Director of the Budget and to hold one copy in the files of the Board.

The Rector and the President commented briefly on the agitation regarding seating at football games, and the Rector read to the Board the Provost's telegram on the subject to the Superintendent of the United States Military Academy.

President Darden discussed the progress of plans for construction of the final group of seven faculty houses at "Piedmont" for rental to lower ranking members of University faculties. The President endorsed the Comptroller's recommendation that the contract be awarded to the firm of R. E. Lee & Son, whose low bid of $115,152 was only slightly higher than Mr. O'Grince's estimate, and substantially lower than the other bids, which had ranged from $122,939 to $132,000.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed to contract with R. E. Lee & Son for this construction.

President Darden presented to the Board the following letter from the Dean of the School of Architecture, together with its two enclosures, copies of which had been distributed to each Visitor

At a called meeting of the University Senate on October 3, 1957 the following programs were presented for final review and were approved. I should like now to recommend them to your office for submission to the Board of Visitors for its approval.

Degree program in City Planning: The School of Architecture proposes to establish a five-year program leading to the degree of Bachelor of City Planning. The pattern of the program parallels the existing curriculum in the School of Architecture and takes advantage of courses now being taught in the School of Architecture, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Engineering. It will require the establishment of only three courses not currently being taught. Students may enter this program following completion of two years of a normal Bachelor of Arts program similar to the program now existing in the College of Arts and Sciences. This curriculum has been approved by the Virginia Council of Higher Education

Degree program in Architectural History: The School of Architecture and the Corcoran Department of History of the College of Arts and Sciences propose to offer a program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Architectural History and administered jointly by both departments. This joint venture anticipates virtually no new course offerings but is made up almost entirely of courses now existing in the separate curricula of these two departments.

Attached are copies of both proposals.

Dean Fitz Patrick's first enclosure concluded with the following paragraphs:

New courses

The remaining courses necessary to complete a total of at least 150 semester-hours may be elected by the candidate in conference with the Dean. In general the elective courses chosen should provide a sequence in Economics, Geography, History or Sociology, enriched by related courses in the behavioral sciences or engineering as outlined below.

Civil Engineering 7.30, 7.31 Sanitary Engineering

Economics 1-2 Principles of Economics

Economics 5, 6 American Economic History Before 1783 European and Colonial Background Since 1783 National Development

Economics 101, 102 Public Finance

Economics 127, 128 Economics of Public Utilities

Statistics 1, 2 Introduction to Statistical Analysis

Geography 1-2 Elements of Geography

Geography 3-4: Economic Geography

Geography 111 Geography of Virginia

Geography 151 Field Methods

Geography 152 Interpretation of Maps and Aerial Photographs

History 103, 104 The American Nation from 1861 to 1900

History 105, 106 Industrial America in the Twentieth Century

History 161, 162 American Political and Social History, 1776-1865

Sociology 3, 4 Introductory Sociology

Sociology 101 Sociological Methods

Sociology 106 Public Opinion and Political Progress

The Dean's second enclosure read as follows:

The School of Architecture and the Corcoran Department of History of the College of Arts and Sciences propose to offer a program leading to a degree of Bachelor of Architectural History in the School of Architecture and administered jointly by the Corcoran Department of History and the School of Architecture. This would provide one of the first such degrees to be offered in this country. With the facilities of the School of Architecture, the Corcoran Department of History, and the University Library, training in the History of Architecture may be pursued with the advantage to the student of obtaining a thorough grounding in the principles of architecture, in historical methods, and in scholarly research. With the architectural training which the School of Architecture affords, the prospective Architectural History student will have the necessary background to sustain his critical judgments and amplify his historical research

The location of the University of Virginia is peculilarly fortunate in not only having a wealth of existing architectural monuments, but also in being within close proximity to such research centers as the Library of Congress and Williamsburg

The degree of Bachelor of Architectural History will be conferred upon successful candidates who have received the recommendation of the faculties of the Corcoran Department of History and the School of Architecture, and who have successfully completed the requirements of the program.

Proposed Curriculum for the degree of Bachelor of Architectural History in the School of Architecture and Administered jointly with the Corcoran Department of History of the College of Arts and Sciences.

General Electives may be chosen from courses for which the candidate has adequate preparation.

History Electives may be chosen from History of England, Industrial America, The Medieval Countryside - Civilization - Towns, History of History, Republic of Mexico - Central America, The Renaissance and the Reformation, American Political and Social History; The Colonial Period.

The Board adopted after discussion the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degrees of Bachelor of City Planning, in the School of Architecture, and of Bachelor of Architectural History, in the School of Architecture and the Corcoran Department of History, under the programs submitted by the Dean of the School of Architecture, as approved by the University Senate, be and they are hereby authorized.

President Darden laid before the Board copies of a mimeographed "Digest of Information About the Proposed use of the College Board Scholastic Aptitude Test at the University of Virginia", together with letters from Deans Duren, Cherry, and Fitz Patrick, from Mr. Bryant, Director of Student Aid and Placement; and from Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Director of Admissions for the College, recommending that the Scholastic Aptitude Test given by the College Entrance Examination Board (which is already an admissions requirement for non-Virginians) be used as a requirement for admission of all students to the undergraduate schools of the University at Charlottesville

During the discussion that followed, it was explained that the testing service at Princeton (of which the University is a member institution) has already set up testing centers at fifteen communities throughout Virginia, that Mr. Bice's planning for the administration of the tests provides for financial and other assistance for those students for whom the $7.00 testing fee or extended travel would cause hardship, and that the relative score made on the tests would be only one of several criteria for admission. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that all students hereafter applying for admission to the undergraduate schools of the University at Charlottesville shall be required to undergo the Scholastic Aptitude Test given by the College Entrance Examination Board as one of the conditions for admission.

The President commented on reports of Alumni discontent at the difficulty of getting their sons admitted to the University. Mr. Darden spoke of the University's desire to receive the sons of Alumni, and he quoted figures from a study of the matter made by Professor Bice to show that Alumni may reasonably expect the benefit of any doubt in all questions regarding admission of their sons.

Mr. Gravatt requested a copy of Mr. Bice's letter, and it was accordingly ordered that the Secretary furnish a copy to each Visitor.

Mr. Smith, Chairman of the Rector's Committee on the College, reported that his Committee had held a meeting on the evening of October 11th and had considered in detail and approved the several matters which would now be presented to the Board by the Chancellor.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mrs. Jean Slater Appel as Assistant Professor of Music (2/5 time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $1840.

Dr. Rachel Jane Benton as Acting Professor and Chairman of the Department of Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $6200.

Mrs. Juliette Breffort Blessing as Instructor in French for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000.

Miss Mary Gay Calcott as Instructor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000.

Mrs. Evelyn Mary Eaton as Visiting Professor in English (part-time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $1180. (Creative Writing).

Mrs. Anne Farquher Hamer as Assistant Professor of Music (2/5 time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $1840.

Dr. Milton Holmes Hodge, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Psychology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mr. Eric Isenburger as Visiting Professor in Art for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5900, substituting for Mr. Julien Binford, on leave of absence.

Dr. George F. Luntz as Acting Professor and Chairman of the Music Department for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $6200.

Mr. William Edward Montague as Assistant Professor of Psychology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mr. Dean Maxfield Mullavey as Instructor in Art for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000, substituting for Mrs. Elena Krupenski, on leave of absence.

Miss Carol Marquerite Pitts as Instructor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000.

Mrs. Vera Neely Ross as Associate Professor of Music (3/5 time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $3000.

Mrs. Lola Esther (Minich) Tompkins as Instructor in Economics and Business Administration for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000

Miss Eula Douglas Turner as Instructor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4000

Dr. Winifred Wood Updike as Assistant Professor in Chemistry for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600, substituting for Mr. H. C. Shull, on leave of absence.

Dr. Herman Lynn Womack as Assistant Professor in Philosophy and Psychology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mr. Daniel Holt Woodward as Assistant Professor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mr. Jesse Bythwood Jackson as Visiting Professor in Mathematics for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5900.

Dr. W. Schuyler Miller as Visiting Professor in Geology (part-time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $1475.

Miss Margery E. Arnold as Assistant Professor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Zoe Wells Carroll Black as Assistant Professor in Biology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Miriam E. Bowes as Assistant Professor in French for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4800.

Dr. Stanley F. Bulley as Assistant Professor in Music for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Mr. G. Preston Burns as Assistant Professor in Physics (part-time) for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $3466.

Dr. L. Clyde Carter as Assistant Professor in Sociology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Robert F. Caverlee as Assistant Professor of Biblical Literature for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $2600 (part-time).

Dr. Herbert L. Cover as Assistant Professor in Chemistry for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Benjamin W. Early as Assistant Professor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Miss Yvette Marie Fallandy as Assistant Professor in French for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4800

Mr. John T. Fauls as Assistant Professor in Psychology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4800.

Dr. Marion A. Greene as Assistant Professor in Spanish for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Mrs. John P. Harris as Assistant Professor in Home Economics for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5000.

Mr. Levin Houston, III, as Assistant Professor in Piano for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200

Dr. Edwin H. Jones as Assistant Professor in French for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Mrs. Walter B. Kelly as Assistant Professor in Psychology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Walter B. Kelly as Assistant Professor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Pauline G. King as Assistant Professor in Art for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200

Mrs. John C. Russell as Assistant Professor in Home Economics for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Dr. Laura Voelkel Sumner as Assistant Professor in Greek and Latin for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5200.

Mr. Mark R. Sumner as Assistant Professor in Dramatic Arts and Speech for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4800.

Miss Mildred Cates as Instructor in Home Economics for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600

Miss Mildred Anne Droste as Instructor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4400.

Mr. Albert G. Duke as Instructor in Radio and Speech for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Miss Miriam J. Greenberg as Instructor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600

Miss Rosemary Herman as Instructor in Spanish for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600

Mrs. Henry C. Irby as Instructor in History and Head Resident for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4200.

Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4200.

Mr. Albert R. Klein as Instructor in Dramatic Arts for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mrs. Elena Krupenski as Instructor in Ceramics for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell as Instructor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4400

Miss Mary Jo Parrish as Instructor in Biology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4400. (Ph.D conferred June, 1957)

Mr. W. J. Pitman as Instructor in Biology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Dr. Russell S. Ratcliffe as Instructor in Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4200.

Miss Carmen L. Rivera as Instructor in Spanish for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4200.

Miss Frances Beveridge Sydnor as Instructor in English for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

Mr. Jack Bruce Thomas as Instructor in Sociology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4200.

Miss Rebecca Woosley as Instructor in Physical Education for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations and retirements, respectively, of the following faculty members at Mary Washington College be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. George Earle Shankle, Professor and Chairman of the Department of English, who was scheduled to retire June, 1957, but died in May.

Miss Eva Taylor Eppes, Associate Professor and Chairman of the Music Department - Retiring as of June, 1957.

Miss Ruth E. Leonard, Associate Professor and Chairman of the Department of Physical Education - Resigning as of June, 1957, to be married.

Dr. J. Kenneth Roach, Associate Professor of Economics and Business Administration - Resigning as of September 1, 1957, to accept another position

Dr. Robert G. Templeton, Assistant Professor in Education - Resigning as of June, 1957.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members at Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence without pay

Mr. Julien Binford, Professor in Art, for the session 1957-58, in order to work in his own studio.

Mr. H. C. Shull, Assistant Professor in Chemistry, for the session 1957-58, due to health.

Mrs. Elena Krupenski, Instructor in Ceramics, for the session 1957-58, due to health

The Chancellor reported that the following teachers are resuming their posts this session after leaves of absence

Dr. Kurt F. Leidecker, as Associate Professor of Philosophy for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $5250.

Mr. William C. Pinschmidt, Jr., as Instructor in Biology for the session 1957-58, at a salary of $4600

The Chancellor reported the following staff changes

Mrs. Inez F. Matthews, Assistant Bursar - Resigning as of July 1, 1957. (Replaced by Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, Cashier, Office of the Bursar)

Mrs. Helen T. Shackleford, Head Resident - Retiring as of June, 1957.

Miss Elizabeth Trible, College Nurse - Retiring as of June, 1957.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made, effective as of September 1, 1957

Dr. James Henry Croushore, Associate Professor of English to Professor of English and Chairman of the Department of English, at an annual salary of $6200.

Dr. Zoe Wells Black, Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Luther Clyde Carter, Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Herbert Lee Cover, Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Chemistry, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Benjamin W. Early, Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Marion A. Greene, Assistant Professor of Spanish to Associate Professor of Spanish, at an annual salary of $5250.

Mr. Levin Houston, III, Assistant Professor of Music to Associate Professor of Music, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Walter Butler Kelly, Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, at an annual salary of $5250.

Dr. Pauline Grace King, Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, at an annual salary of $5250

Dr. Laura Voelkel Sumner, Assistant Professor of Classics to Associate Professor of Classics, at an annual salary of $5250.

Mr. Albert R. Klein, Instructor in Dramatic Arts to Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts, at an annual salary of $4800.

Miss Rebecca T. Woosley, Instructor in Physical Education to Assistant Professor of Physical Education, at an annual salary of $4800.

Referring to the minutes of the April 27th Board meeting, the Chancellor discussed the terms and conditions of a proposed lease by the College of Belmont, the home of the late Gari Melchers.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement with the trustees of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts for the operation of the Belmont Property, the former home of Gari Melchers, for a period from approximately November 1, 1957, to June 30, 1960, as a public shrine, and for use by the college for instructional purposes

Chancellor Simpson led a brief discussion of the progress toward construction of the new science building, and reported on the highly favorable bids received.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to enter into a contract with the John W. Daniels Company, Inc., of Danville, Virginia, for the construction of a Science Building in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by Walford and Wright, Architects, and as proposed in a written proposal by the John W. Daniels Company at a bid opening on September 24, 1957.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to enter into a contract with the Southern Desk Company of Hickory, North Carolina, for supplying laboratory and science equipment as set forth in the plans and specifications prepared by Walford and Wright, per their written proposal submitted at a formal bid opening on September 24, 1957

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Rector, the President of the University of Virginia, the Chancellor of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and the Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be, and each of said officers is hereby given full and complete authority to execute, in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, any instrument pertaining to said Mary Washington College or its affairs, which may hereafter require the name of this corporation to be signed thereto, except that the Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia shall not have the authority to execute any instrument pertaining to land or to the construction of buildings, and the Secretary of this corporation is hereby authorized to affix the seal of this corporation to any and all such instruments upon which such seal is or may be required, and to deliver such instrument or instruments to the party or parties entitled to receive the same.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

With the last wage increase, the maintenance costs of our dormitories will be greater than the revenue. I believe that we should raise our charges $25 per student for all accomodations. This would make the charge in the new dormitories $200 instead of the present $175.

Many of our students are well able to pay this and those who would find it a hardship can be helped through University scholarship funds.

I am enclosing a schedule of room charges of thirty institutions, including the University of Virginia. Of these thirty, only two charge less than we do.

1.

Deficit, year ended June 30, 1957

$4,197.33

2.

Estimated accumulative deficit, year ended June 30, 1958

$10,000.00

Basis for the request for an increase in the Student Health Service medical fee from $20 to $25 beginning in the Session 1958-1959.

At the time of the organization of the Department of Student Health in 1938 the unit medical fee was tentatively placed at $15 per session. Due to deficits based mainly on increased costs of hospitalization, the fee was increased in 1950 to $20. Our request for a further fee increase in 1958 is based upon (I) increased costs of operation as reflected in (II) current and estimated annual deficits.

I. Increased costs of operation

1\. Increased expenditures for personnel

a. Merit increases

b. Social Security contributions

c. Virginia Supplemental Retirement System contributions

d. Salaries for new personnel, needed to provide services for a larger student population.

2\. Initial expenditures for equipment due to expansion of Clinic space and facilities.

3\. Increased costs for medical supplies, medications, new vaccines, office maintenance.

4\. Increased expenditures for hospitalization and consultation services.

II. Current and estimated annual deficits

For specific details referable to these needs, please refer to data itemized in our budget prepared for the biennium 1958-1959, 1959-1960, submitted to the Comptroller of the University on June 28, 1957, copy attached.

At a called meeting of the University Senate on October 3, 1957 the following programs were presented for final review and were approved. I should like now to recommend them to your office for submission to the Board of Visitors for its approval.

Degree program in City Planning: The School of Architecture proposes to establish a five-year program leading to the degree of Bachelor of City Planning. The pattern of the program parallels the existing curriculum in the School of Architecture and takes advantage of courses now being taught in the School of Architecture, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Engineering. It will require the establishment of only three courses not currently being taught. Students may enter this program following completion of two years of a normal Bachelor of Arts program similar to the program now existing in the College of Arts and Sciences. This curriculum has been approved by the Virginia Council of Higher Education

Degree program in Architectural History: The School of Architecture and the Corcoran Department of History of the College of Arts and Sciences propose to offer a program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Architectural History and administered jointly by both departments. This joint venture anticipates virtually no new course offerings but is made up almost entirely of courses now existing in the separate curricula of these two departments.

Attached are copies of both proposals.

With the last wage increase, the maintenance costs of our dormitories will be greater than the revenue. I believe that we should raise our charges $25 per student for all accomodations. This would make the charge in the new dormitories $200 instead of the present $175.

Many of our students are well able to pay this and those who would find it a hardship can be helped through University scholarship funds.

I am enclosing a schedule of room charges of thirty institutions, including the University of Virginia. Of these thirty, only two charge less than we do.

1.

Deficit, year ended June 30, 1957

$4,197.33

2.

Estimated accumulative deficit, year ended June 30, 1958

$10,000.00

Basis for the request for an increase in the Student Health Service medical fee from $20 to $25 beginning in the Session 1958-1959.

At the time of the organization of the Department of Student Health in 1938 the unit medical fee was tentatively placed at $15 per session. Due to deficits based mainly on increased costs of hospitalization, the fee was increased in 1950 to $20. Our request for a further fee increase in 1958 is based upon (I) increased costs of operation as reflected in (II) current and estimated annual deficits.

I. Increased costs of operation

1\. Increased expenditures for personnel

a. Merit increases

b. Social Security contributions

c. Virginia Supplemental Retirement System contributions

d. Salaries for new personnel, needed to provide services for a larger student population.

2\. Initial expenditures for equipment due to expansion of Clinic space and facilities.

3\. Increased costs for medical supplies, medications, new vaccines, office maintenance.

4\. Increased expenditures for hospitalization and consultation services.

II. Current and estimated annual deficits

For specific details referable to these needs, please refer to data itemized in our budget prepared for the biennium 1958-1959, 1959-1960, submitted to the Comptroller of the University on June 28, 1957, copy attached.

At a called meeting of the University Senate on October 3, 1957 the following programs were presented for final review and were approved. I should like now to recommend them to your office for submission to the Board of Visitors for its approval.

Degree program in City Planning: The School of Architecture proposes to establish a five-year program leading to the degree of Bachelor of City Planning. The pattern of the program parallels the existing curriculum in the School of Architecture and takes advantage of courses now being taught in the School of Architecture, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the School of Engineering. It will require the establishment of only three courses not currently being taught. Students may enter this program following completion of two years of a normal Bachelor of Arts program similar to the program now existing in the College of Arts and Sciences. This curriculum has been approved by the Virginia Council of Higher Education

Degree program in Architectural History: The School of Architecture and the Corcoran Department of History of the College of Arts and Sciences propose to offer a program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Architectural History and administered jointly by both departments. This joint venture anticipates virtually no new course offerings but is made up almost entirely of courses now existing in the separate curricula of these two departments.

Attached are copies of both proposals.
