---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1957'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1957) April 27, 1957
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 27, 1957

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

18 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MR. McWANE APPOINTED TO MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE COMMITTEERESOLUTION IN MEMORY OF DOWELL JENNINGS HOWARDDEATH OF PROFESSOR BRUCE D. REYNOLDSGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONPROMOTIONS OF MESSRS. SCOTT AND LAREW - A CORRECTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSCHANGE OF TITLEAPPOINTMENTSPROMOTIONSRE-ELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSAMERICAN TELEPHONE CO. RIGHT OF WAY AT BLANDY FARMCHARLOTTESVILLE'S REQUEST FOR RIGHT OF WAYJ. A. G. SCHOOL OFFICERS MESS BEER LICENSEHANDY TRUST FOR FAR PLACES COLLECTIONWITNESSETH:LAND LEASE-EXCHANGE WITH EQUITABLE REALTY CORPORATIONHOSPITAL PARKING LOT GIFT BY TRUSTEESCOCKE PROPERTYSALE AND TRANSFER OF SECURITIESNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE SITERESOLUTIONS HONORING PRESIDENT DARDENRESOLUTION OF THE ASSEMBLY OF PROFESSORSASSEMBLY OF PROFESSORSUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIARESOLUTION OF THE ENGINEERING FACULTYRESOLUTION OF THE EDUCATION FACULTYFACULTY OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATIONRESOLUTION OF THE MEDICAL FACULTYFACULTY OF THE SCHOOL OF LAWRESOLUTION OF EXTENSION DIVISION STAFFMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSSCIENCE BUILDING BIDSSUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION FOR DORMITORYADDITIONAL DORMITORY UNIT APPROVEDLIBRARY STACK ADDITION AND NEW GYMNASIUMANNUAL AND BIENNIAL BUDGETS APPROVEDGARI MELCHERS' BELMONT ESTATECENTRAL STOREROOM FIRE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From St. Anthony Educational Foundation Inc., to be added to the University Scholarship Fund

$100.00

From an anonymous donor, for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship for the 1957-58 session

1,000.00

From Mrs. Helen C. Mott, to the Hospital to be used for cancer research

700.00

From Miss Elizabeth Robertson, for a scholarship for a student of medicine or medical technology

300.00

From Dr. J. E. Vaughan, to be added to the Medical Alumni Fund

100.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Department of Foreign Affairs to pay the honorarium for the Michalowski Lectures

300.00

From Mr. Charles Barham, Jr., 94 books valued at

135.75

From Mr. Philip K. Crowe, books valued at

190.00

From the Ford Foundation, an increase in research fellowship in Economic Development and Administration

611.00

From Mrs. T. Woodruff George, to be added to the University scholarship fund

550.00

From an anonymous donor, for a scholarship in the School of Architecture

5,285.00

From the estate of the late Juliet Garber Stringham, 90 books valued at

240.00

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund, securities valued at

21,843.52

(NO PUBLICITY)

From various sources, to be added to the D. C. Smith Memorial Fund

485.00

From Alice B. Warner, to be added to the Hematology Research Fund

100.00

From Mr. C. J. Fraser, to be used for the Hospital

100.00

From the University of Virginia Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

1,250.00

From Mr. Frederick C. Robertson, to be added to the University scholarship fund

$100.00

From the Seven Society, for the purchase of a carillon for the University Chapel

9,777.00

From the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund, for continued research under the direction of Dr. Vincent Hollander

9,100.00

From Acme Visible Records, Inc., for continued research under the direction of Prof. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

15,000.00

From the Music Research Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. Evan Pattishall, of the Division of Educational Research

3,800.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill, of the School of Medicine

6,912.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. F. L. Hereford, of the Department of Physics

14,542.80

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, of the Department of Physics

20,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Prof. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

19,474.34

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Prof. O. R. Rodig

5,445.00

Dr. W. H. Muller

23,779.00

Dr. W. H. Muller

8,222.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

10,695.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

23,800.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

10,000.00

Dr. J. Rappaport

2,300.00

Dr. W. H. Muller

12,858.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held its regular meeting at 10.00 A.M. on this date in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, at Fredericksburg, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr.; Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson, and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College, was present during the discussion of the College budget.

The minutes of the meeting of 9 March 1957, previously distributed, were approved.

The Rector informed the Board that he had appointed Mr. McWane to succeed the late Mr. Howard as a member of the Committee on Mary Washington College.

On behalf of the special committee appointed on March 9th, Judge Smith presented the following resolution

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, that in the passing of Dowell Jennings Howard on 23 February 1957, the University and the public schools of Virginia have suffered a deep and permanent loss.

A devoted servant of public education in Virginia since 1919, and for the past seven years a member of this Board, Dowell Howard won and held the respect of those who shared his generous labors, we here record our warm affection for him and the sorrow which his death has brought to us.

As a soldier in time of war, and an unselfish leader in the affairs of his Church and city, as in his unstinting services to the schools and colleges of Virginia, Dowell Howard worked with the same unvarying integrity and sincerity which made him a natural leader in his profession. The crisis in public education that developed during his administration of Virginia's educational system was met by him with a firm resolve to maintain and strengthen the public schools. His devotion to his state and country and his buoyant confidence in the Jeffersonian ideal of education as their democratic bulwark were never shaken. We shall hold him in grateful memory.

The Board approved and adopted the foregoing resolution, and the Secretary was directed to have copies put into suitable form and presented to Mrs. Howard and her children.

President Darden announced to the Board the death on April 26th of Dr. Bruce Dodson Reynolds, Chairman of the Department of Biology and former Director of the University's Mountain Lake Biological Station in Gile's County. Mr. Reynolds had served as a member of the Biology faculty since 1923.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Professor Reynolds was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for his devoted and valuable services to the University.

The President announced the following gifts and grants

In discussing the gifts, President Darden noted that acceptance of the Seven Society's gift would require specific action by the Board, and that he would not be in a position to propose such action until a later Board meeting.

The Board adopted the following resolution, subject to the reservation in the case of Mr. Kownacki that the President obtain a security check

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Bartholomeus van't Riet as Instructor in Chemistry for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,000.

Mr. Robert T. Ives as Instructor in Mathematics for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,000.

Dr. Gerald Williams as Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1957, at a salary of $600 per month.

Dr. William N. Reingold as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, as of July 1, 1957, at a yearly salary of $7,500, to be paid from departmental earnings.

Dr. David Strider as Clinical Instructor in Orthopedics, as of April 1, 1957, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Paul S. Derian as Instructor in Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1957, at a salary of $7,500 per year, to be paid from departmental earnings.

Mr. John Bartow Rees, Jr., as Instructor in Law for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,500.

Mr. David Alan Williams as Instructor in History for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,750.

Mr. Gary Seamans Dunbar as Visiting Assistant Professor of Geography for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $6,000.

Mr. Arthur Philips Stabler as Instructor in French for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,000.

Mr. Alfred Charles Proulx as Instructor in French for the session of 195758, at a salary of $5,000.

Dr. Allen W. Moger as Part-time Professor of History for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $2,500.

Mr. Robert Leland Kellogg as Instructor in English for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,000.

Dr. Emery P. Bliesmer as Assistant Professor of Education, as of September, 1957, for three years, at a session salary of $6,600.

Mr. George John Edberg as Instructor in Spanish for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,000.

Mr. Harry Cranbrook Allen as Visiting Research Professor of History for the first semester of the session of 1957-58, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Stanislaw Kownacki as Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $7,500.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Jack Philip Greene as Instructor in History at the March 9, 1957, meeting of the Board, be and it is hereby cancelled. Mr. Greene cannot come because he is to be drafted into the armed service.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. John F. Scott, Jr., Acting Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, be and he is hereby promoted to Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, as of February 1, 1957.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Hiram Gordon Larew, Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, be and he is hereby promoted to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, as of February 1, 1957.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Dr. Frank L. Hereford, Professor of Physics, for the session of 1957-58, to accept a Fulbright grant for work in England at the University of Birmingham.

Dr. Paul M. Gross, Jr., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for the session of 1957-58, to accept a National Science Foundation fellowship for study in England.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted.

Dr. Maurice K. Townsend, Assistant Professor of Political Science and Research Assistant in the Bureau of Public Administration, as of June 15, 1957.

Dr. William C. Ellet, Jr., Assistant Professor of Political Science, as of June 15, 1957, to take a position with the Babcock and Wilcox Company of Lynchburg.

Dr. Raymond F. Mikesell, Professor of Economics, as of August 1, 1957, to take a position at the University of Oregon.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change in title be and it is hereby made

Dr. E. D. Vere Nicoll from Assistant Professor of Orthopedics to Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, at no salary from the University, as of July 1, 1957.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointments were announced by the President

Major William A. Jesse as Assistant Professor of Naval Science in the summer of 1957, at no salary from the University.

Captain Albert W. Smarr, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1957, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Dr. Herbert Augustine Claiborne, Jr., Instructor in Obstetrics, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1957, for three years, at a salary of $10,250 - $3,000 from State funds and the remainder from departmental earnings.

Dr. Harry S. McGaughey, Jr., Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, as of July 1, 1957, at an annual salary of $9,500 from departmental earnings, for three years.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Kenneth E. Lloyd, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Bernard W. Busse, Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Stanley B. Shuman, Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Harrison J. Pemberton, Jr., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Robert C. Jeffrey, Assistant Professor of Speech, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Assistant Professor of English, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. John C. Coleman, Assistant Professor of English, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. Howard W. Nicholson, Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Loren G. Hepler, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Mr. David W. Weiss, Assistant Professor of Drama, for three years, as of June, 1957.

Dr. Harry Lee Archer, Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, for three years, as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Arthur Morton Smith, Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, for three years, as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Vincent P. Hollander, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Coordinator of the Cancer Program, for three years, as of October 1, 1957.

Mr. Charles Weis, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, as of June, 1957.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 666, 669, 670, 674, 677 and 678, aggregating $71,836.69, as recommended by it.

The President stated that American Telephone and Telegraph Company is constructing an underground telephone system to be used for long distance communications and as a part of that system had requested the University to grant it an easement of right of way under a road right of way approximately 50 feet in width owned by the University as a part of the Blandy Farm in Clarke County of Virginia, the wires, etc of the Company to be buried beneath the road. The Company was prepared to pay $50.00 for the grant of the right of way in question. The matter had been referred to Mr. Minor, the University's special counsel, who was of the opinion that under Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, The Rector and Visitors were authorized to grant such easement. He then presented a draft of the instrument granting the easement in question, which draft, he stated, had been approved by Mr. Minor.

After consideration of the instrument as presented, upon motion, duly seconded and carried, it was,

RESOLVED, that it is deemed proper for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to grant to American Telephone and Telegraph Company, in consideration of $50.00, the perpetual easement and right of way across the road right of way connected with Blandy Farm, Clarke County, Virginia, described in the instrument presented to this meeting, the grant of such easement to be in the form of the instrument so presented,

RESOLVED, further, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute said instrument in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of the University to such instrument and to attest the same.

The President then referred to the request of the City of Charlottesville for a right of way for the enlargement of the intersection of West Main Street and Jefferson Park Avenue and for the widening of Jefferson Park Avenue, which request had been considered and tentatively approved by the Board at its meeting on March 9, 1957. In accordance with the Board's instructions, the matter had been referred to Mr. Minor, the University's special counsel, who had rendered an opinion that under the provisions of Section 23-77.2, of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, The Rector and Visitors were authorized to grant easements for streets over any property owned by it, when in the discretion of The Rector and Visitors it is deemed proper to grant such easement, and that it was not necessary to obtain the Governor's approval of such grant.

He then presented to the Board the deed granting to the City of Charlottesville said street easement, drafted by Mr. Minor, stating that it had been approved in the form presented by the City Attorney on behalf of the City of Charlottesville.

After consideration of this deed as presented, upon motion, duly seconded and carried, it was,

RESOLVED, that it is deemed proper for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to grant to the City of Charlottesville, a perpetual easement and right of way for street purposes over the portion of the lands of the University of Virginia, described in the deed presented to this meeting, the grant of such easement to be in the form of the deed so presented,

RESOLVED, further, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute said deed in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he hereby is, authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of the University to said deed and to attest the same.

President Darden reported that the staff of the Judge Advocate General's School, having formed an officers' mess and desiring to issue beer to its members, would require a license from the Virginia Alcoholic Beverages Control Board. The ABC Board, Mr. Darden believed, would deny the license if the University made any objection, and he hesitated to make such an objection in view of the fact that the beer would be issued only in the officers' lounge of the dormitory building, occupied exclusively by the J. A. G. School and removed from other dormitory areas. The following letter from the University's Special Counsel was read to the Board

I have your letter of March 28, 1957, requesting my opinion in regard to the above captioned matter, and I have given careful consideration to the correspondence enclosed therewith. It is my understanding, however, that the University is not interested in the arguments as to whether or not the J.A.G. School will have to obtain and pay for a license to dispense beer, but is interested in whether or not it can legally consent to the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. My opinion will therefore be confined to that point.

An exhaustive search of the Virginia statutes governing the sale of alcoholic beverages has failed to disclose any statute forbidding such sale. My examination of the statutes included not only the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, but also the statutory provisions relating to Universities and Colleges, and to educational institutions in general, as well as those relating to State property. The closest approach to the problem is found in Section 4-31 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, dealing with the right of the ABC Board to refuse to grant a license. That section (4-31(2)(d)), provides as follows

"The Board may refuse to grant any license mentioned in this Chapter if it shall have reasonable cause to believe.

That the place to be occupied by the applicant

Is so situated with respect to any church, synagogue, hospital, public, private or parochial school, college or university, public or private playground or other similar recreational facilities, or any state, local or Federal government operated facility, that the operation of such place under such license will adversely affect or interfere with the normal, orderly conduct of the affairs of such facilities or institutions."

I am therefore of the opinion that there is nothing in the statute law of Virginia which forbids the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. As I do not have available a copy of the lease between the University and the United States Government as to the J.A.G. School dormitory, I cannot say whether the subject matter is touched on therein.

The propriety of the University giving either express or tacit permission for the sale of alcoholic beverages on University grounds is a matter of policy upon which I express no opinion. I would think, however, that if permission is to be granted, it should be given by resolution of the Board of Visitors.

Members voiced the opinion that this matter might appropriately be left to the President's discretion, but should be brought to the Board for decision if any problem should arise in connection with it.

The President presented the following letter and enclosure from the University Librarian

Board of Visitors' action on the attached indenture is in order, and I suggest that the Board consider a motion to instruct its Secretary to communicate to Mr. Edward S. Handy, in care of Mr. Junius Fishburne of the Peoples National Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia, their satisfaction over, and acceptance of, the provisions of the deed.

For your own information, let me say that Mr. Venable Minor drew this instrument, that Mr. Shea has vetted it, and that it is an irrevocable deed to the University, funded at present with something in the order of $1500. The wills of Mr. and Mrs. Handy are at present so drawn that the trust fund set up in the deed becomes the eventual beneficiary of an estate worth today approximately a quarter of a million dollars.

The Handys are, of course, free at any time to change these wills, leaving the deed worth only its present $1500 value, but it is my impression that their present intention is the result of long and careful deliberation, and is not likely to be changed except under unlikely and unpredictable circumstances.

THIS TRUST INDENTURE made this 1st day of April, 1957, by and between EDWARD S. HANDY, (hereinafter referred to as the "Settlor"), of the first part, and PEOPLES NATIONAL BANK OF CHARLOTTESVILLE, (hereinafter referred to as the "Trustee"), of the second part

WHEREAS, the Settlor desires to create an irrevocable trust for the purposes hereinafter mentioned,

NOW THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE

That for good and valuable consideration passing from said Trustee to said Settlor, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and in further consideration of the agreement on the part of said Trustee hereinafter expressed to incur the obligation and perform the duties imposed upon it by this instrument in order that the purposes hereinafter expressed may be carried out, and subject to all of the covenants and conditions herein contained, said Settlor hereby GRANT, ASSIGNS, TRANSFERS AND DELIVERS unto said Trustee certain funds and/or property as specifically described in a separate receipt issued by said Trustee to said Settlor and in said Settlor's possession, TO HAVE and TO HOLD, said funds and/or property together with any additional property or monies hereafter received, either by inter vivos gifts or by testamentary disposition, unto said Trustee, its Successors and Assigns, IN TRUST, for the uses and purposes hereinafter set out and with the powers hereinafter defined and enumerated.

I(a) Said Trustee shall collect the rents, issues and profits arising therefrom, and after deducting all proper charges and expenses, shall pay over the net income therefrom to Settlor's wife, Elizabeth Green Handy, in monthly, quarterly or semi-annual instalments as she may desire, so long as she shall live,

(b) Said Trustee shall have the power, during the lifetime of said Elizabeth Green Handy, to encroach upon the principal of said trust, whenever, if ever, it is necessary so to do in order to provide for her comfortable but conservative support and maintenance, including medical and hospital care, but such encroachments, if any, shall in any event be limited to such an amount or amounts as may be necessary to maintain said Elizabeth Green Handy in as much comfort as she now enjoys, but in so acting, said Trustee shall use its sole and unfettered judgment in determining to what extent, if any, it may be necessary to so encroach in order to accomplish these purposes, taking into consideration such other income or estate as said Elizabeth Green Handy may have or be entitled to from other sources.

II(a) Upon the death of said Elizabeth Green Handy, said Trustee shall continue to hold the principal of said trust estate in trust for a further period of ten (10) years, and after her death, shall pay over three-fourths (3/4) of the net income derived therefrom to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, to be expended for the perpetuation and activation of its Far Places Collection as hereinafter defined. Said Trustee shall pay over the remaining one-fourth (1/4) of said net income to the Trustees of the Peabody Museum, Salem, Massachusetts, for the continuation of Genethnics research in Salem and contiguous areas in New England, in Oceania, East and Southeast Asia and India, and the publication of Genethnics studies.

Said income payments may be made in monthly, quarterly, semiannual or annual instalments as said Trustee may desire.

(b) Since all relationship immediately and ultimately rests upon and resides in individuals as organic strands in webs of heredity and heritage, within the matrix of the total environment, the study of individuals as wholes is to be adhered to as the guiding principle in recording and interpreting natural and human relations, whether of individual to individual or of individuals in the aggregate, as groups, communities or societies. In the study of individuals and their relationships, in accordance with this focal principle, for which the term "Genethnics" is compounded, techniques based upon recognized scientific procedures are to be utilized and applied in natural history and life history, in biography and family record, and in description and analysis of persons, groups, communities and regions.

The area of interest of the Far Places Collection shall therefore be the culture, languages and races of the world, particularly focussed upon the life histories of significant persons, peoples, places, and things, irrespective of time and place. The research materials of the Far Places Collection consists of books, or other printed sources, manuscripts, maps, and data of any sort significant with respect to persons, peoples, times, conditions and places which have had prime effectiveness in promoting beneficent achievement and progress of mankind.

(c) During the ten (10) year period of continuance of said trust after the death of said Elizabeth Green Handy, the expenditure of the three-fourths (3/4) of the annual income of said trust paid to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, shall be determined by a committee of five (5) members.

Said Committee shall be composed of the Librarian of the University of Virginia, as chairman, and one person of high professional standing from each of the following fields of endeavor

(1) Law, Government, or International Relations,

(2) Finance, or Commerce,

(3) Biology or Anthropology,

(4) History, Literature, Drama or Fine Arts.

With the exception of the chairman, the members of the Committee shall be appointed each year by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the appointed members of the Committee need not necessarily be members of the faculty of the University of Virginia.

No person who is a dean, chairman or head of a department of the University of Virginia shall be eligible to serve as one of the appointed members of the Committee. This limitation is placed on membership in the hope of insuring that expenditures be always calculated in terms of the development of the library of the University of Virginia and of its Far Places Collection and not used to subsidize the budget of any particular school or department of the University, it being the hope of the Settlor that the Far Places Collection will always serve the interests of general reference in liberal and applied art without becoming departmentalized.

Said Committee shall meet once each year and at such annual meeting the Committee shall determine the amount of income to be allocated for different branches of research, such as library materials, consultants, seminars, lectureships or fellowships, in the areas of interest defined in paragraph (b) of this Article, and shall determine the objectives and purposes of each branch of such research.

The decision of a majority of the Committee shall be final.

The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Chairman, shall receive travel expenses incident to attendance at the annual meeting and an honorarium, the amount of which shall be determined by the chairman.

III(a) At the end of ten (10) years from the date of death of said Elizabeth Green Handy, said trust shall terminate and said Trustee shall pay, transfer and deliver to said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the entire principal of said trust estate, to be held by it in trust for the perpetuation of the purposes and activities of its Far Places Collection, as hereinabove set forth.

(b) If at the time the principal of said trust is received by said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the amount thereof is sufficient for the purpose, and the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, in consultation with the Librarian of said University, deem it practicable and advisable, a portion of said principal shall be used to equip a room in the Library of said University to be set aside specifically to house its Far Places Collection, or if no proper room exists, to be used to erect a room as an addition to the existing Library building and to equip the same for such purposes.

The room housing the Far Places Collection shall be one suitable for research on the part of the faculty, guests with faculty privileges, alumni, graduates, and undergraduates of the University, and for lectures and seminars. It is distinctly not to be a "browsing room", a reference room for general study or a mere alcove off any other room in the Library.

If such a room is established there shall be placed therein a bronze plaque reading as follows

"This room houses the Far Places Collection dedicated to those in near and far places who see far, whose awareness transcends time and place."

The interest of the Settlor in a room devoted exclusively to housing the Far Places Collection of the University of Virginia arises out of a conviction that the collection will thus be more effective as an instrumentality for strengthening and perpetuating the Jefferson tradition of both liberal and applied arts at the University of Virginia, and thus will more certainly guarantee the realization of such purpose. By housing the collection in a room specifically designed and equipped as a place for research and writing, conference, informal lectures, and the like, a room in which the more important documentary materials are at hand and easily available for immediate and direct reference, the purpose for which this trust is established will be better served than if these materials are dispersed in the general collections of the University Library, or in departmental libraries of the University at Charlottesville, or in branches of the University in other localities in Virginia.

IV. The balance of the principal of said trust estate not expended for the purposes hereinabove set out in Article III(b) of this Indenture shall be held in trust by said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the expenditure of the net income derived therefrom shall be determined by the same Committee heretofore described in Article II(c) of this Indenture, and in the manner and for the same purposes therein set out.

V. The right is hereby reserved by the Settlor, for himself, during his lifetime, or by will, or for anyone else, either before the death of said Settlor or thereafter, either by will or deed or otherwise, to add to said trust fund at such time or times and in such amount or amounts as he or they may see fit, in cash, securities or other property, real or personal, said additions to be held by said Trustee as a part of the principal of said trust fund, under all of the provisions and conditions of this Indenture.

VI. Said Trustee shall, without regard to any legal or statutory restrictions otherwise applicable to fiduciaries (whether pertaining to investments or other matters) have, with reference to said trust estate, the following powers and discretions in addition to any conferred by law

(1) To retain so long as it may deem advisable any property of any kind and description, in the form of investment in which it receives the same, or any property of any kind and description acquired by it in the exercise of any power conferred upon said Trustee by general law or by this Indenture, even if such property should be or become unproductive of income, of a wasting nature, speculative in character or otherwise hazardous, and even though said property constitutes a greater proportion of said trust estate than would normally seem advisable,

(2) To sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of any such property,

(3) To invest and reinvest in any securities or other property, real or personal, including corporate stocks of any classification, interests in investment trusts, and common trust funds. Investments need not be diversified and may be made or retained with a view to a possible increase in value,

(4) To hold any portion of said property in cash or universted for such period or periods as may seem to them advisable,

(5) To sell, mortgage or lease (even for a period extending beyond the duration of the trust), alter, improve, erect buildings upon, convey by their sole deed, or otherwise deal with or dispose of real property, or any interest therein,

(6) To consent to, dissent from or otherwise participate in any mergers, consolidations, reorganizations, or other changes affecting securities, and delegate discretionary powers and pay any assessments or other charges in connection therewith;

(7) To exercise any options or rights of subscription, available in connection with any securities, and to make any payments required therefor,

(8) To resolve whatever doubt, if any may arise, in allocating as between principal and income, any receipts or disbursements. And the decision of said Trustee in this respect shall be binding upon all interested parties,

(9) To vote in person or by proxy upon any such securities and to delegate discretionary powers in relation thereto;

(10) To compromise, submit to arbitration, release or otherwise adjust any claims in favor of or against any funds, securities, properties, etc., estates or interests therein, held by said Trustee, or to which said trust estate may be entitled, and to enter into any contract or other undertaking that may seem to said Trustee to be in the best interests of said trust estate, without incurring personal liability upon any such undertaking;

(11) To hold the securities or other properties in the name of said Trustee, in the name or names of its nominee or nominees, or in bearer form,

(12) To employ agents, depositaries and attorneys, and to delegate to them discretionary powers, if need be, and to compensate them for their services.

Said Trustee shall not be liable for any loss resulting to said trust fund from any actions of said Trustee other than actual malfeasance or misfeasance.

VII. The Trustee shall be entitled to an annual fee of five percent (5%) of the gross income collected, but not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) annually, and, in addition, to a corpus fee of one percent (1%) of the market value of the securities now transferred to the Trustee and of further additions to said trust fund as above provided, payable presently or when such additions may be made, as the case may be, and one and one-half percent (1 1/2%) of all withdrawals of corpus, or of the market value of said trust fund held at the termination of said trust, payable at that time.

If the Trustee shall resign, the Trustee shall not be entitled to any corpus fee.

VIII. If, at the date of termination of said trust, the market value of the principal thereof amounts to less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the entire principal thereof may be expended by said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, for its Far Places Collection.

IX. This trust shall be irrevocable from the date of execution of this Indenture by the Settlor and its delivery to and acceptance by said Trustee.

X. This Indenture shall be construed and regulated by the laws of the State of Virginia.

The Trustee unites herein as evidence of its acceptance of the trust hereby created, and covenants that it will faithfully discharge all of the duties herein imposed upon it as such Trustee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Indenture in triplicate, the day and year first above written.

STATE OF VIRGINIA

COUNTY OF ALBEMARLE, to-wit

I, /s/ Peggy S. Tull, a notary public in and for the County aforesaid, in the State of Virginia, hereby certify that Edward S. Handy whose name is signed to the foregoing writing, dated April 1, 1957, has acknowledged the same before me in my County aforesaid.

My commission expires August 16, 1958

Given under my hand this 3rd day of April, 1957.

STATE OF VIRGINIA

COUNTY OF ALBEMARLE, to-wit

I, /s/ Peggy S. Tull, a notary public in and for the County aforesaid, in the State of Virginia, hereby certify that Junius R. Fishburne as Vice-President and Trust Officer of Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville, whose name is signed to the foregoing writing, dated April 1, 1957, has acknowledged the same before me in my County aforesaid.

My commission expires August 16, 1958

Given under my hand this 3rd day of April, 1957.

The Board resolved that the provisions of the foregoing instrument be approved and accepted.

The President presented to the Board the following letter, together with a plat of the property discussed therein.

In further reference to our telephone conversation of a few days ago in regard to the exchange of the University and Equitable Realty Corporation, whereby Equitable Realty Corporation undertakes to convey in fee simple to the University, a triangular piece of land lying along the western boundary of the soccer field in exchange for a ninety-nine (99) year lease from the University of another triangular parcel adjoining the first, I am enclosing herewith a plat of the properties to be exchanged, on which the property to be conveyed to the University is designated as Parcel A and marked in blue, while the parcel to be leased to Equitable Realty is designated Parcel B and marked in red.

I have no doubt that you would like to have this plat with you at the time you bring this matter before the board to obtain their approval, in substance, to exchange subject, of course, to their giving final approval of the necessary documents at a future meeting.

After the enclosed plat has served your purpose, I will appreciate your returning it to me as I will need it in the preparation of the documents in question.

The Board resolved after discussion that the proposed exchange be approved, subject to final approval of the documents as drawn by Mr. Minor and presented to a future meeting.

President Darden reported the acquisition at a cost of $60,000 of a tract east of Jefferson Park Avenue as a means of alleviating the acute car-parking problem in the University Hospital area. Half of the purchase price, the President said, had been drawn from his contingent fund and the additional $30,000 had been appropriated specifically for this purpose by the Alumni Board of Trustees.

On motion of Mr. Hartfield, duly seconded, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University that the wise and generous action of the Alumni Board of Trustees in assisting the President, through the acquisition of land east of Jefferson Park Avenue, to solve the acute parking problem in the University Hospital area, is accepted by this Board with emphatic approval and lively appreciation.

Resolved further that the Secretary be instructed to convey to the Alumni Board a copy of this resolution and the gratitude of the several Visitors.

Mrs. Smith reported that the Buildings and Grounds Committee had received from the President a letter from Mr. John Page Elliott proposing that the University purchase the property adjacent to St. Paul's Church owned by the Misses Betty and Louise Cocke, subject to a life tenancy by the owners.

After brief discussion the Board resolved that the Secretary request Mr. Elliott to furnish additional information as to the owners' valuation and the other proposed conditions of a sale.

Commenting on the problems encountered by the Finance Committee in handling certain properties donated and bequeathed to the University, Mr. Gray said that he and the Comptroller had been attempting to work out a suitable resolution fixing authority for the transfer of securities. He then presented to the Board a resolution, drawn by the University's Special Council, which, moved by Mr. Gray and seconded by Mr. Berkeley, was adopted as follows

WHEREAS, Section 23-69 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, provides that "The board of visitors of the University of Virginia shall be and remain a corporation under the style of \`the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia', and shall have, in addition to its other powers, all the corporate powers given to corporations by the provisions of Title 13," and,

WHEREAS, Title 13 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, deals with corporations and Section 13.1-3(g), a part thereof, grants to corporations generally the following powers

"(g) To purchase, take, receive, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire, own, hold, vote, use, employ, sell, mortgage, lend, pledge, or otherwise dispose of, and otherwise use and deal in and with, stock, securities or other interests in, or obligations of, other domestic or foreign corporations organized for any purpose, associations, partnerships or individuals, or direct or indirect obligations of the United States or of any other government, state, territory, governmental district or municipality or of any instrumentality thereof, and to guarantee the payment of any bonds or other obligations of any other domestic or foreign corporation organized for any purpose,"

and,

WHEREAS, Section 23-74 of said Code of Virginia, 1950, directs the board of visitors of the University of Virginia to appoint from their own body a rector, and,

WHEREAS, Section 23-76 of said Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, provides that the board of visitors shall appoint a president and may appoint a comptroller and proctor, and employ any other agents or servants, and, generally, in respect to the government and management of the University, make such regulations as they may deem expedient, not being contrary to law, and,

WHEREAS, under the powers granted to it as hereinabove set out, the board of visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has authority to make regulations concerning sale or transfer of securities registered in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and/or the University of Virginia,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT

RESOLVED, that any one of the following officers, namely, Frank Talbott, Jr., The Rector of the University of Virginia, Colgate W. Darden, Jr., its President, or Vincent Shea, its Comptroller, be and is hereby authorized in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to assign and transfer any and all securities of any company, corporation or association now or hereafter registered in the name of or belonging to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and/or the University of Virginia,

And be it further —

RESOLVED, that the said companies, corporations and associations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars and their respective administrators, executors, sucessors and assigns, be and hereby are authorized to treat Hamac and Company as holder in fact and owner of said shares and certificates representing the same for any and all purposes including but not limited to the payment or issuing of dividends in money or stock to said Hamac and Company,

And be it further —

RESOLVED, that the said companies, corporations and associations, their transfer agent or agents, their registrar or registrars and their respective administrators, executors, successors, and assigns, be and hereby are absolved from any and all responsibility in following the said shares as being the property of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and/or the University of Virginia.

Opening a general discussion of the problem of obtaining agreement upon a site for the Northern Virginia College, the Rector summarized the developments up to the present month. There was general agreement on the advantages to the proposed college and to the state in having the college organized, subject to the permissive legislation adopted by the General Assembly, as an integral part of the University, providing that local support could be obtained without detracting from the University's essential authority and responsibility for the project. Judge Smith reported. (1) that he had been unable to set a date earlier than Thursday, May 9th, that would suit the Northern Virginia legislators as a time for a meeting with his special Committee, and (2) that, since the March 9th Board meeting, a "Board of Control" had been organized consisting of two representatives each from Arlington, Alexandria, Falls Church, and Fairfax. On motion of Mr. Greear, duly seconded, the Board adopted the following resolution

IN AS MUCH as the political subdivisions in the Washington area have appointed representatives to act as a board for dealing with the question of locating a branch of the University of Virginia in that territory,

BE IT RESOLVED that the question of the location and establishment of a branch of the University of Virginia be deferred until the next meeting of the Board of Visitors in order to afford an opportunity for a Committee of the Board to meet with these representatives in an effort to reconcile existing differences and difficulties.

Reminded that the Rector had on March 9th appointed Mr. Smith, Mr. Bryan, and Mr. Darden as a special committee to meet with the legislators from the Arlington-Alexandria-Falls Church-Fairfax area, the Board resolved, upon motion of Dr. Emmett, seconded by Miss Wheeler, that the previous action be vacated, but that the same three persons serve as a committee to meet with the "Board of Control" as called for in Mr. Greear's resolution.

The Rector spoke of the pleasure given to him and to the other members of the Board in receiving during recent weeks a series of heart-warming resolutions from the University's faculties honoring Mr. Darden upon his tenth anniversary as President, praising his policies and accomplishments, and urging him to postpone his retirement as long as possible. In addition to the resolutions from the several faculties, the Rector noted especially the resolution adopted by the Assembly of Professors, an unofficial association that includes all of the teachers in the University above the rank of instructor.

Upon motion of Mr. Gravatt, seconded by several members, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has received with pleasure and lively satisfaction the resolutions in honor of President Darden upon his tenth anniversary adopted by the Assembly of Professors and by the several Faculties, that the Visitors, heartily concurring in the expressions of praise and of confidence contained in these resolutions, urge President Darden to remain in office for as long as he may personally be disposed to do so, that the texts of the Faculty resolutions be recorded in the minutes of the Board, and that the Secretary be instructed to convey to the various faculties the appreciation and concurrence of the Board

At the direction of the Assembly of Professors of the University of Virginia I have the pleasure to transmit to you herewith a resolution passed by this body at a recent meeting. As you doubtless know this body is composed of all members of the University faculty of professorial rank. I am confident that the sentiments expressed in this resolution accurately express the feelings of the University faculty

WHEREAS this is the tenth anniversary of the presidency of Colgate W. Darden, Jr., it seems fitting that this body give some official expression of its sentiments, and all the more fitting at this time since rumors have recently become current that President Darden intends to retire in the near future despite continued age qualifications, apparent vigorous health and the high esteem in which he is held,

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by this Assembly of Professors of the University of Virginia, conposed of the members of the faculties of professorial rank of the College of Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School of Business Administration, and the Schools of Architecture, Commerce, Education, Engineering, Law, Medicine, and Nursing that

WE tender to President Darden our felicitations and expressions of good-will on the occasion of his tenth year of distinguished service to the University of Virginia, register our sense of deep appreciation for the many services both he and Mrs Darden have rendered the University, record our feeling of sustained and continued confidence in his ability, understanding and wisdom in administering the affairs of the University, and in the interests alike of the University and the Commonwealth of Virginia, express the hope that the rumors of his impending retirement are without foundation

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this Resolution be spread upon the minutes of the Assembly of Professors and that copies thereof be sent to President and Mrs. Darden and to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

We, the Faculty of the Engineering School, respectfully urge the Board of Visitors to take every reasonable step to dissuade Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr. from resigning as President of the University

We furthermore urge that the Board provide such assistance as to relieve him of the onerous details of the President's Office as now organized

We request that the Secretary of the Engineering Faculty transmit copies of this action to the Rector and Board of Visitors, the Secretary of the Board of Visitors, and President Darden

We, the Faculty of the School of Education, concur with the Faculty of the Engineering School and, therefore, urge the Board of Visitors to take every reasonable step to dissuade Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr. from resigning as President of the University

"We further urge that the Board provide such assistance as to relieve him of the onerous details of the President's Office as now organized."

Word has reached the faculty of the Graduate School of Business Administration that you have expressed the intention of resigning from the presidency of the University within the next two years. At a meeting of the faculty of the School held on February 27 it was unanimously voted that I be instructed to write to you on behalf of the faculty and respectfully ask you to reconsider such a decision and remain in office for the full term of your office.

We want you to continue as chief executive of the University of Virginia for the following principal reasons

1\. We like you and Mrs. Darden as friends and neighbors and would be sad to have you leave the University community.

2\. We like the way you run the University

3\. We think it improbably that a successor could be found who could so effectively interpret the University to the State government in all its branches and interpret the State government to the University.

4\. We feel that the healthy growth of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be greatly helped by your being in office during its first formative years. It is your School. A change of administrative climate at this early stage could be prejudicial to the School's development

It is understood, of course, that this plea does not apply if your rumored decision stems from any reason of health or family concern which only you could determine.

WHEREAS we, the members of the Faculty of the School of Medicine, have become aware of the expressed intention of Colgate W. Darden, Jr., to retire in the not-too-distant future as President of the University of Virginia, and

WHEREAS we have noted the marked advances made by the School of Medicine during the ten-year period of his wise administration, such advances as are exemplified by the very substantial additions to the physical plant, by the expansion of medical and health facilities, and by the strengthening of the Faculty with the resultant improvement in teaching and research, and

WHEREAS we have greatly enjoyed the cordial and friendly relations between him and the Faculty of the School of Medicine,

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that we hereby express our deep appreciation of his sympathetic understanding of the problems of the School of Medicine, our profound regret at the prospective termination of his tenure as President, and our heartfelt hope that the actual date of his retirement may be postponed as long as possible

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this Resolution be spread upon the minutes of the Faculty of the School of Medicine and that copies thereof be sent to President Darden and to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

We have just had a meeting of the law faculty at which concern was again expressed about your consideration of resignation. I am writing for myself and my colleagues, and at their direction, in saying that this would be a great misfortune to the University and to us personally. We heartily endorse the resolution of the Association of Professors

Whereas It has come to the attention of the general public through news stories that President Colgate W. Darden has expressed an intention of retiring from the exacting duties of President of the University sometime in the near future, and

Whereas The staff of the Extension Division is this day gathered in regular meeting and is cognizant of the aforesaid news stories, and

Whereas The entire membership of this staff is unanimous in recognizing the valuable contribution which President Darden has made to the University of Virginia and to the entire field of public education in Virginia during his tenure of office, and

Whereas It is the belief of the members of this staff that the continued progress of the work of the University will be much enhanced by the continued leadership of President Darden,

The membership of the staff of the Extension Division joins unanimously in asking that this resolution be sent to President Darden expressing the hope that he will withhold his plans for retirement in the near future and pledges the continued cooperation of the staff individually and collectively in continuing to work for his objectives in bringing the services and influence of the University to an even higher level of effectiveness for the people of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Be it further ordained that copies of this resolution be sent to President Darden, to Mr. Frank Talbott, Jr., Rector of the Board of Visitors, to Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary of the Board of Visitors, and filed with the minutes of this meeting of the Extension Division Staff

The Chancellor reported (1) that the architects will deliver the plans and specifications for the new science building some time during May, (2) that preliminary estimates place the probable cost of this building at approximately $900,000, exceeding by $175,000 the available appropriated funds of $725,000, and (3) that the science faculties are opposed to a reduction of facilities in the building to cover this difference

It was resolved by the Board, after discussion that the specifications be put out promptly for bids, and that the Board be informed thereafter if the bids indicate the necessity of a supplemental budget request.

A discussion of the new dormitory plans brought out the fact that the available funds of $192,500 were appropriated prior to the decision to construct this building to house 140 students instead of 100 students. In order to bring the appropriation up to 55 per cent of the cost, so as to provide adequately for maintenance and obtain a favorable interest rate on the bonds issued, it seemed desirable to make an additional capital outlay request of $77,000

The Board resolved accordingly that an additional capital outlay request of approximately $77,000 for this building be presented to the General Assembly

The Chancellor initiated a discussion of the future building program, which will eliminate use of the outmoded, off-campus apartment house, Cornell Hall, now used as a dormitory.

On motion of Mr. Gravatt, seconded by Miss Wheeler, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College of the University be and is hereby authorized when funds are available to locate a dormitory unit, consisting of two dormitories, on the southeast corner of the Reichel property at the intersection of William Street and Sunken Road

Two major items in the biennial budget, the Chancellor pointed out, are the requests for $275,000 for a library stack addition and $750,000 for a gymnasium. The proposed addition to the library (which must now store current book purchases in temporary facilities) will furnish shelving for 120,000 volumes, or all new books acquired over the next twenty years. A single addition at this time is believed to be the most economical plan for expansion.

The proposed gymnasium would replace the hopelessly inadequate gymnasium room built in 1910, concentrate health and physical education facilities in one building, and release the old gymnasium area to student organizations in the Student Activities Building

After further discussion of various items in the Annual Budget for the year ending 30 June 1958 and in the Biennial Budget for 1958-1960, copies of which were furnished to each Visitor, the following resolutions, moved by Mr. Gravatt and duly seconded by Miss Wheeler, were adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Annual Budget for Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia for the year ending 30 June 1958, as laid before the Board, be and it is hereby approved, subject to final approval by the Board's Committee on Mary Washington College.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Biennial Budget for Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia for the biennium beginning on 1 July 1958 and ending on 30 June 1960 be and it is hereby approved, as laid before the Board, subject to final approval by the Board's Committee on Mary Washington College.

The Chancellor reported briefly on a tentative proposal from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts for transferring to the College the title to and responsibility for Belmont, formerly the hone of Gari Melchers. This estate, located across the river from the College, includes more than 100 paintings and other properties of potential teaching value in the Art Department.

The Rector proposed that the Chancellor continue the conversations with the Virginia Museum authorities unless any of the Visitors should have a contrary opinion. No adverse opinions were voiced.

The Chancellor reported to the Board the fire which occurred in the Central Storeroom on the afternoon of Tuesday, March 26th. The damage to contents is not expected to exceed $10,000, and is fully covered by insurance of $18,000 on the contents and $50,000 on the building.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

I have your letter of March 28, 1957, requesting my opinion in regard to the above captioned matter, and I have given careful consideration to the correspondence enclosed therewith. It is my understanding, however, that the University is not interested in the arguments as to whether or not the J.A.G. School will have to obtain and pay for a license to dispense beer, but is interested in whether or not it can legally consent to the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. My opinion will therefore be confined to that point.

An exhaustive search of the Virginia statutes governing the sale of alcoholic beverages has failed to disclose any statute forbidding such sale. My examination of the statutes included not only the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, but also the statutory provisions relating to Universities and Colleges, and to educational institutions in general, as well as those relating to State property. The closest approach to the problem is found in Section 4-31 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, dealing with the right of the ABC Board to refuse to grant a license. That section (4-31(2)(d)), provides as follows

"The Board may refuse to grant any license mentioned in this Chapter if it shall have reasonable cause to believe.

That the place to be occupied by the applicant

Is so situated with respect to any church, synagogue, hospital, public, private or parochial school, college or university, public or private playground or other similar recreational facilities, or any state, local or Federal government operated facility, that the operation of such place under such license will adversely affect or interfere with the normal, orderly conduct of the affairs of such facilities or institutions."

I am therefore of the opinion that there is nothing in the statute law of Virginia which forbids the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. As I do not have available a copy of the lease between the University and the United States Government as to the J.A.G. School dormitory, I cannot say whether the subject matter is touched on therein.

The propriety of the University giving either express or tacit permission for the sale of alcoholic beverages on University grounds is a matter of policy upon which I express no opinion. I would think, however, that if permission is to be granted, it should be given by resolution of the Board of Visitors.

Board of Visitors' action on the attached indenture is in order, and I suggest that the Board consider a motion to instruct its Secretary to communicate to Mr. Edward S. Handy, in care of Mr. Junius Fishburne of the Peoples National Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia, their satisfaction over, and acceptance of, the provisions of the deed.

For your own information, let me say that Mr. Venable Minor drew this instrument, that Mr. Shea has vetted it, and that it is an irrevocable deed to the University, funded at present with something in the order of $1500. The wills of Mr. and Mrs. Handy are at present so drawn that the trust fund set up in the deed becomes the eventual beneficiary of an estate worth today approximately a quarter of a million dollars.

The Handys are, of course, free at any time to change these wills, leaving the deed worth only its present $1500 value, but it is my impression that their present intention is the result of long and careful deliberation, and is not likely to be changed except under unlikely and unpredictable circumstances.

In further reference to our telephone conversation of a few days ago in regard to the exchange of the University and Equitable Realty Corporation, whereby Equitable Realty Corporation undertakes to convey in fee simple to the University, a triangular piece of land lying along the western boundary of the soccer field in exchange for a ninety-nine (99) year lease from the University of another triangular parcel adjoining the first, I am enclosing herewith a plat of the properties to be exchanged, on which the property to be conveyed to the University is designated as Parcel A and marked in blue, while the parcel to be leased to Equitable Realty is designated Parcel B and marked in red.

I have no doubt that you would like to have this plat with you at the time you bring this matter before the board to obtain their approval, in substance, to exchange subject, of course, to their giving final approval of the necessary documents at a future meeting.

After the enclosed plat has served your purpose, I will appreciate your returning it to me as I will need it in the preparation of the documents in question.

At the direction of the Assembly of Professors of the University of Virginia I have the pleasure to transmit to you herewith a resolution passed by this body at a recent meeting. As you doubtless know this body is composed of all members of the University faculty of professorial rank. I am confident that the sentiments expressed in this resolution accurately express the feelings of the University faculty

Word has reached the faculty of the Graduate School of Business Administration that you have expressed the intention of resigning from the presidency of the University within the next two years. At a meeting of the faculty of the School held on February 27 it was unanimously voted that I be instructed to write to you on behalf of the faculty and respectfully ask you to reconsider such a decision and remain in office for the full term of your office.

We want you to continue as chief executive of the University of Virginia for the following principal reasons

1\. We like you and Mrs. Darden as friends and neighbors and would be sad to have you leave the University community.

2\. We like the way you run the University

3\. We think it improbably that a successor could be found who could so effectively interpret the University to the State government in all its branches and interpret the State government to the University.

4\. We feel that the healthy growth of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be greatly helped by your being in office during its first formative years. It is your School. A change of administrative climate at this early stage could be prejudicial to the School's development

It is understood, of course, that this plea does not apply if your rumored decision stems from any reason of health or family concern which only you could determine.

We have just had a meeting of the law faculty at which concern was again expressed about your consideration of resignation. I am writing for myself and my colleagues, and at their direction, in saying that this would be a great misfortune to the University and to us personally. We heartily endorse the resolution of the Association of Professors

I have your letter of March 28, 1957, requesting my opinion in regard to the above captioned matter, and I have given careful consideration to the correspondence enclosed therewith. It is my understanding, however, that the University is not interested in the arguments as to whether or not the J.A.G. School will have to obtain and pay for a license to dispense beer, but is interested in whether or not it can legally consent to the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. My opinion will therefore be confined to that point.

An exhaustive search of the Virginia statutes governing the sale of alcoholic beverages has failed to disclose any statute forbidding such sale. My examination of the statutes included not only the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, but also the statutory provisions relating to Universities and Colleges, and to educational institutions in general, as well as those relating to State property. The closest approach to the problem is found in Section 4-31 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, dealing with the right of the ABC Board to refuse to grant a license. That section (4-31(2)(d)), provides as follows

"The Board may refuse to grant any license mentioned in this Chapter if it shall have reasonable cause to believe.

That the place to be occupied by the applicant

Is so situated with respect to any church, synagogue, hospital, public, private or parochial school, college or university, public or private playground or other similar recreational facilities, or any state, local or Federal government operated facility, that the operation of such place under such license will adversely affect or interfere with the normal, orderly conduct of the affairs of such facilities or institutions."

I am therefore of the opinion that there is nothing in the statute law of Virginia which forbids the issuance of such license for sale of beer on University property. As I do not have available a copy of the lease between the University and the United States Government as to the J.A.G. School dormitory, I cannot say whether the subject matter is touched on therein.

The propriety of the University giving either express or tacit permission for the sale of alcoholic beverages on University grounds is a matter of policy upon which I express no opinion. I would think, however, that if permission is to be granted, it should be given by resolution of the Board of Visitors.

Board of Visitors' action on the attached indenture is in order, and I suggest that the Board consider a motion to instruct its Secretary to communicate to Mr. Edward S. Handy, in care of Mr. Junius Fishburne of the Peoples National Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia, their satisfaction over, and acceptance of, the provisions of the deed.

For your own information, let me say that Mr. Venable Minor drew this instrument, that Mr. Shea has vetted it, and that it is an irrevocable deed to the University, funded at present with something in the order of $1500. The wills of Mr. and Mrs. Handy are at present so drawn that the trust fund set up in the deed becomes the eventual beneficiary of an estate worth today approximately a quarter of a million dollars.

The Handys are, of course, free at any time to change these wills, leaving the deed worth only its present $1500 value, but it is my impression that their present intention is the result of long and careful deliberation, and is not likely to be changed except under unlikely and unpredictable circumstances.

In further reference to our telephone conversation of a few days ago in regard to the exchange of the University and Equitable Realty Corporation, whereby Equitable Realty Corporation undertakes to convey in fee simple to the University, a triangular piece of land lying along the western boundary of the soccer field in exchange for a ninety-nine (99) year lease from the University of another triangular parcel adjoining the first, I am enclosing herewith a plat of the properties to be exchanged, on which the property to be conveyed to the University is designated as Parcel A and marked in blue, while the parcel to be leased to Equitable Realty is designated Parcel B and marked in red.

I have no doubt that you would like to have this plat with you at the time you bring this matter before the board to obtain their approval, in substance, to exchange subject, of course, to their giving final approval of the necessary documents at a future meeting.

After the enclosed plat has served your purpose, I will appreciate your returning it to me as I will need it in the preparation of the documents in question.

At the direction of the Assembly of Professors of the University of Virginia I have the pleasure to transmit to you herewith a resolution passed by this body at a recent meeting. As you doubtless know this body is composed of all members of the University faculty of professorial rank. I am confident that the sentiments expressed in this resolution accurately express the feelings of the University faculty

Word has reached the faculty of the Graduate School of Business Administration that you have expressed the intention of resigning from the presidency of the University within the next two years. At a meeting of the faculty of the School held on February 27 it was unanimously voted that I be instructed to write to you on behalf of the faculty and respectfully ask you to reconsider such a decision and remain in office for the full term of your office.

We want you to continue as chief executive of the University of Virginia for the following principal reasons

1\. We like you and Mrs. Darden as friends and neighbors and would be sad to have you leave the University community.

2\. We like the way you run the University

3\. We think it improbably that a successor could be found who could so effectively interpret the University to the State government in all its branches and interpret the State government to the University.

4\. We feel that the healthy growth of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be greatly helped by your being in office during its first formative years. It is your School. A change of administrative climate at this early stage could be prejudicial to the School's development

It is understood, of course, that this plea does not apply if your rumored decision stems from any reason of health or family concern which only you could determine.

We have just had a meeting of the law faculty at which concern was again expressed about your consideration of resignation. I am writing for myself and my colleagues, and at their direction, in saying that this would be a great misfortune to the University and to us personally. We heartily endorse the resolution of the Association of Professors
