---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1958'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
RETIRING VISITORSEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE DEPUTIZED TO ACT FOR BOARDGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONAPPOINTMENTLEAVE OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONMILITARY PROPERTY CUSTODIANHOSPITAL BIDS APPROVEDCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FEES INCREASEDMR. DARDEN'S NAME - CLINCH VALLEY RESOLUTIONNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE SITE APPROVEDBRANCHES TO BE NON-DORMITORY JUNIOR COLLEGES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, books and manuscripts valued at

$37,750.00

From the estate of the late Mr. James M. Bowcock, a collection of books valued at

3,500.00

From Mr. George S. Coyle, 29 volumes of the books either written or published by A. Edward Newton, valued at

340.00

From Lady Hadow, 35 volumes of architectural works, valued at

2,335.00

From Mrs. Sally W. Hamilton, a collection of books valued at

900.00

From Mr. C. Venable Minor, 266 volumes, valued at

290.00

From Mrs. A. G. A. Balz, remainder of the collection of philosophical books bequeathed to the University by the late Professor Albert Balz, valued at

4,000.00

From an anonymous donor, two-thirds for the Children's Rehabilitation Center and one-third for the Virginia Quarterly Review, securities valued at

76,212.00

From R. J. Stockham, to be added to the Medical Alumni Fund

1,000.00

From Prof. S. A. Mitchell, a collection of scientific books valued at

325.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School, to be added to the House Staff Scholarship Fund

2,400.00

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the Hospital Chapel Fund

1,000.00

From an anonymous donor, for a scholarship to a student from England

2,000.00

From Circle K Club, to establish a loan fund to be used for emergency loans to foreign students

200.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, for the purchase of a vehicle for the Children's Rehabilitation Center

3,200.00

From Margaret T. Powe, to the University Hospital for the Social Service Department

100.00

From Mrs. J. C. Metcalf, to be added to the Metcalf Memorial Fund

100.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, for the Samuel Baker Woods Award for the 1957-58 session

250.00

From Mr. W. G. Brady, Jr., to the University Hospital

500.00

From Mr. Joseph Mintzer, for the Tumor Clinic

250.00

From Mrs. Mary R. White, to the X-Ray Department of the University Hospital, for the Cobalt Machine

1,000.00

From Mr. William H. White, Jr., to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund, securities valued at

459.88

From Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Baker, to the University Hospital, for the children's wards

500.00

From the Charles E. and Joy C. Pettinos Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Fellowship Fund

$5,000.00

From Mr. Joseph Hartfield, to be added to the Class of 1902 Law School Fund

1,350.00

From the Sycamore Tree Trust, to the hospital to be added to the Maternal Health Clinic Fund

2,500.00

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

9,000.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, to the School of Engineering for research under the direction of Prof. R. M. Hubbard

3,000.00

From the Union Carbide Educational Fund, for scholarships in the School of Engineering for the 1957-58 session

1,225.00

From Mr. Leander McCormick-Goodhart, for the McCormick Observatory

500.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, for the Engineering School

383.18

From the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, to the Alderman Library to be used for research collection on Thomas Jefferson

5,000.00

From various sources, to be added to the D. C. Smith Memorial Fund

200.00

From Johns Hopkins University, for research under the direction of Prof. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

25,000.00

From the Federal Trade Commission, for research under the direction of Mr. J. S. Bowen, Jr., School of Engineering

4,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research in physics under the direction of Prof. J. W. Beams

12,743.40

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for the purchase of equipment to be used in laboratory courses in the School of Engineering

18,898.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill

8,089.00

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. Gerald Goldstein

10,445.00

Dr. Cecil Hougie

17,250.00

Dr. H. S. McGaughey

9,775.00

1958-59

1959-60

Projected Income

$ 81,000

$ 88,000

State Appropriation

76,650

78,185

Total

$157,650

$166,185

Minimum Budget

$157,504

$160,234

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 A.M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Jones, Martin, Pollock, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Gray, Greear, Hartfield, McWane, Paschall, and Mrs. Smith.

The minutes of the meeting of 14 December 1957, previously distributed, were approved.

In reporting to the Board the unavoidable absence of Mrs. Emily P. Smith, the Rector expressed his keen personal and official regret at the retirement from the Board, as of the close of today's meeting, of Mrs. Smith, Dr. John M. Emmett, and Mr. J. Segar Gravatt. President Darden joined in the appreciation of the Board for their unselfish service for the maximum terms permitted by statute.

The Rector pointed out that the urgent matter of the choice of a permanent site for the Northern Virginia College would require the full time of the Board at today's meeting. In addition to that matter, he intended to present only a resolution from the Faculty of the Clinch Valley College, but would ask the President to present the matter of the bids for the new Hospital construction. He recommended that all other items on today's agenda, as laid before the Board in the President's docket, be referred to the Executive Committee for study and action in detail.

The Board accordingly resolved that the Executive Committee be authorized, pursuant to Section 23-75 Code of Virginia, to act in the name of the Board of Visitors on all matters in today's docket not otherwise disposed of by the full Board, and to act with the same authority upon any matters which the President might see fit to refer to the Committee between today's date and the meeting of the Board scheduled to be held in Fredericksburg on 12 April 1958.

The Secretary was instructed to record all actions of the Executive Committee under this resolution as actions of the Board in the minutes of today's meeting or of the April 12th meeting, as might be appropriate. A signed statement detailing the Committee's decisions was subsequently filed with the Secretary's notes on today's meeting, whereby the Executive Committee approved on behalf of the Board the following matters under the headings "Gifts and Grants", "Elections", "Cancellation of Election", "Appointment", "Leave of Absence", "Resignation", "Military Property Custodian", and "Clinch Valley College Fees", and the resolutions, respectively, pertaining thereto.

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty -

Dr. Richard P. Bell, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Surgery from January 14 to July 1, 1958, without salary from the University.

Mr. Donald B. Woodward as Visiting Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration, effective February 1, 1958, at no salary from the University

Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., as Instructor in Law for the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $5,750, subject to his graduation in June.

Dr. William S. Jordan, Jr., as Professor of Preventive Medicine and Chairman of that department and also Professor of Medicine, as of May 1, 1958, at a salary of $15,000 a year

Dr. Sam Dixon Graham as Lecturer in Urology, effective February 1, 1958, at no salary from the University.

Mr. John Archer Carter, Jr., as Instructor in English, effective September, 1958, at a session salary of $5,000.

Dr. John Philip Davison as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, as of March 1, 1958, at a salary of $10,000 per year, $3,400 of which is to be paid from Departmental Fund No. 8710 and $6,600 from the Clinical Laboratory Hospital Fund No. 9209.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Albrecht Frölich as Visiting Professor of Mathematics for the second semester of the session of 1957-58 be and it is hereby cancelled. He has been unable to obtain a United States visa.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs, the following appointment was announced by President Darden

Major Robert A. Maqoon as Associate Professor of Air Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Charles Murrah, Assistant Professor of English, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence without pay for the session of 1957-58 to write a book.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Irvin L. Ramsey, Assistant Professor of Elementary Education, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the summer of 1958, to take a position at The Ohio State University.

We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. T. M. Burruss be and he is hereby relieved of his duties as Military Property Custodian of the University.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. D. B. Moyer be and he is hereby designated Military Property Custodian of the University with the power to requisition, receive, store, and account for military property and otherwise transact business pertaining thereto, for and in behalf of the University of Virginia.

President Darden reported on the large number of bids received for the new hospital construction work, the closeness of the bidding, and the University's good fortune in getting the primary construction done at a rate of approximately $1.60 a foot, this being substantially below the best estimated figure.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to accept the low bids, as approved and recommended by the Bureau of the Budget in Richmond, and to proceed with the construction of the building.

President Darden reported on his correspondence with the Governor regarding fees and revenue estimates at the Clinch Valley College, and presented the following memorandum from the Provost

I think we should ask the Board for permission to go ahead with some slight increases in fees at Clinch Valley College to make increases in faculty salaries to bring them in line with proposed increases at Mary Washington, Longwood, etc.

Mr. Smiddy, Mr. Shea, and I have reviewed the situation and think that, by increasing the charge per semester-hour from $8.50 to $9.50 for college and education courses, and from $12.00 to $12.50 for engineering courses, and including $10 for library fees and $10 for activity fees, we feel we can make the necessary increases and promotions which will amount to $7,300. In my judgment, we must make the increases if we are to retain our present staff and attract new people to this rather remote area.

As calculated by Mr. Shea, the financial situation at Clinch Valley looks like this

It was resolved that the fees be increased as set forth above in the Provost's memorandum.

The Rector read to the Board the following resolution, which had been received from Professor Judd W. Lewis, Jr.

RESOLUTION

At a regular meeting of the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia held at the college in Wise, Virginia on Wednesday, December 18, 1957, and presided over by Professor Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Chairman, this Faculty voted upon and passed the following resolution

THAT WHEREAS, the President of the University of Virginia, Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., having rendered outstanding service in the establishment and the perpetuation of Clinch Valley College,

THAT WHEREAS, Mr. Darden gave, not only of his time, but of his personal means in helping to establish this institution,

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia do hereby recommend that the new academic building to be built at Clinch Valley College be named Darden Hall,

WHEREFORE, the said Faculty at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia does hereby request that this resolution be placed before the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia at its next meeting,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution be sent to Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Secretary of the Board of Visitors, Alderman Library Building, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.

President Darden expressed his warm appreciation for the generous sentiments of the College Faculty. He stated, however, that he was strongly and unalterably opposed to having any building on any campus of the University of Virginia named after him now or at any time in the future.

The Board accordingly resolved, in deference to the President's wishes, that the Secretary convey to the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia the thanks of the Visitors, their hearty concurrence in the sentiments of the Faculty toward Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and their regret that they cannot approve the naming of the new academic building in honor of Mr. Darden.

The Rector opened a three-hour discussion of the problem of a permanent site for the University's Northern Virginia College, now occupying a former public school building at Bailey's Cross Roads, by asking whether the Board desired to hear further testimony by representatives from Northern Virginia civic organizations and local governments. The governmental representatives present this morning, Mr. Talbott noted, included officials favoring each of the only two sites remaining under consideration, the Ravensworth tract and the Sunset Hills tract, near Herndon, the citizens and officials supporting both sides had expressed themselves as willing to forego the hearings, but only on condition that no opposing witness should appear before the Board.

Members pointed out that the two sites now finally available were essentially the same two sites on which the Board's special committee had made a study and report in September 1956, and upon which the full Board had subsequently held extensive hearings. It was also pointed out that many official and unofficial communications were on the table and that further hearings would only distract attention from the study of these and other documents, maps, and exhibits, and from adequate deliberation upon the merits of the two sites.

On motion of Dr. Emmett, duly seconded, the Board RESOLVED that no hearings be held unless developments later in the day should call for them, but with freedom reserved to call in anyone needed to clarify a question.

The Secretary, as instructed, informed Mr. C. Harrison Mann and other waiting witnesses of the foregoing decision, and requested that they remain on call by telephone.

The Secretary having previously furnished to each Visitor a description of Ravensworth and copies of Mr. C. Harrison Mann's letter of 30 January 1958 (as amended on February 1st) offering and requesting approval, on behalf of the Board of Control for the Establishment of a Northern Virginia Branch College, of Ravensworth tracts comprising 209 acres, the Rector also read to the Board numerous telegrams, letters, and other documents, including the individual offers of land.

Noting that some of the land offers at Ravensworth promised delivery over a three-year period, the Board instructed the Secretary to obtain by telephone a clarification from Mr. Mann. This was done, and Mr. Mann explained that clear titles would be available, but that installment payments would be necessary to protect the owners from tax losses.

The Joint House Resolution of 27 February 1956 authorizing the branch in Northern Virginia was read and explained to the Board by the Rector.

President Darden read to the Board a letter of 30 January 1958 from Paul H. Farrier, Secretary of the State Council of Higher Education, containing the following resolution adopted by the Council on January 27th:

In view of the information presented to the Council, and in view of a VALC recommendation that junior colleges without dormitories be located in centers of heavy population, the Council approves the location of such an institution in Northern Virginia at the Ravensworth site as recommended by the governing bodies of Alexandria, Falls Church, Arlington County, and Fairfax County, and by the legally established local board of control. This approval by the Council is subject to the acceptance of Ravensworth site by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia at its next meeting called for this purpose, or at any adjourned meeting thereof.

The Rector also read to the Board a letter from Paul H. Farrier, Executive Secretary of the State Council of Higher Education, dated January 30, 1958, in which Mr. Farrier pointed out that in two recent reports the Virginia Advisory Legislative Council had stated that branch institutions should be established in areas of high population density.

The Rector noted that the Board had received no official messages from any of the four governing bodies in the tenth district, except Arlington, and that Mr. C. Harrison Mann had overlooked bringing the messages with him to Charlottesville, as he had intended to do. The Rector then read to the Board the following statement signed by Mr. Mann in the Secretary's presence this morning

I certify that the four governing bodies, Arlington, Alexandria, Falls Church and Fairfax County have each passed resolutions authorizing the Board of Control to acquire the Ravensworth site for a branch college. Further, that each of the governing bodies has agreed to place in its budget for the ensuing year its proportionate share of funds necessary to acquire this site for the establishment of a branch college.

At Mr. Gravatt's request the Secretary read to the Board the Board's resolutions of 14 December 1957 approving as acceptable sites the Chiles tract, the Brenizer tract, and the Bowman tract at Sunset Hills, and authorizing the Executive Committee to act for the Board during December and January, either in acceptance of one of these sites or in negotiating an extension of the Bowman offer, which had since been extended and doubled.

The very extensive discussion that followed brought out the opinions already announced by the Advisory Council, the local governments in and near the Tenth District, the Board of Control, and the Council of Higher Education, as well as the sharply divided public opinion in Northern Virginia. Emphasis was put upon transportation problems, the availability of metropolitan universities and the cost differentials, educational costs at non-dormitory institutions, the freedom of the Board (under the General Assembly) to establish the branch either within or beyond the bounds of the Tenth District, the problem of local financial support, projected highway developments and population trends (especially as analyzed and presented by the late Dr. Dowell Howard, now modified by the new airport near Herndon), expansion space, and the dangers of future pressures for a four-year branch college.

The Rector proposed, the Board concurring, that in reaching a decision the Visitors should follow three broad rules: (1) Ignore all pressures, (2) Ignore purely esthetic considerations since both sites now considered by the Board offer the protection of reasonably adequate acreage and since the institution will not be a dormitory college, and (3) Be guided solely by best judgment, in the light of all the evidence, to choose the site that will best serve Northern Virginia now and in future

President Darden spoke in favor of the Ravensworth tract, emphasizing the concurring decisions reached, after long and arduous efforts of Board of Control members and others, by the local governments on which the University must depend. He pointed out that most students would be expected to come from the Tenth District and would find Ravensworth much more accessible. He referred also to Dr. Lancaster's concern and the opinions reached by the Council of Higher Education.

Others stressed the advantages of the Sunset Hills location for the long-range future, and reminded the Board of the studies of the late Dr. Dowell Howard of the high schools and future developments in Northern Virginia which made him such a strong advocate of the Sunset Hills site.

Judge Smith, who said he had formerly favored a somewhat rural site, questioned whether it was practicable to attempt to proceed at this time. Judge Bryan expressed similar doubts, despite his preference for the Sunset Hills location. The Rector pointed to state policy for creating a Northern Virginia college now, as reflected in the General Assembly's resolution, and others said they believed that if the Visitors made a firm decision, based on their mature convictions, that the Northern Virginians would ultimately support the project

Upon motion of Mr. Gravatt, seconded by Dr. Martin, the Board adopted by a 9 to 2 vote (Messrs. Coxe and Talbott dissenting) the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board approves and stands ready to accept as a permanent site for the Northern Virginia College of the University of Virginia the 500-acre tract (with use of the proposed sewage disposal plant) offered by Mr. A. Smith Bowman, Jr., Mr. L. DeLong Bowman, and A. Smith Bowman & Sons, Inc., together with the gift of forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) offered by the Board of Supervisors of Loudoun County.

During the discussion of the site question there had been frequent statements by the Rector, the President, Judge Smith, and several others emphasizing the conception of University branches as junior colleges without dormitories.

Upon motion of Mr. Berkeley, seconded by Judge Smith, the following resolution was unanimously adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board wishes to record its deep conviction that the Northern Virginia College and all other branch colleges now existing or that may be established in future as colleges of the University of Virginia ought to be non-residential colleges limited to the first two years of undergraduate work.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

1958-59

1959-60

Projected Income

$ 81,000

$ 88,000

State Appropriation

76,650

78,185

Total

$157,650

$166,185

Minimum Budget

$157,504

$160,234

I think we should ask the Board for permission to go ahead with some slight increases in fees at Clinch Valley College to make increases in faculty salaries to bring them in line with proposed increases at Mary Washington, Longwood, etc.

Mr. Smiddy, Mr. Shea, and I have reviewed the situation and think that, by increasing the charge per semester-hour from $8.50 to $9.50 for college and education courses, and from $12.00 to $12.50 for engineering courses, and including $10 for library fees and $10 for activity fees, we feel we can make the necessary increases and promotions which will amount to $7,300. In my judgment, we must make the increases if we are to retain our present staff and attract new people to this rather remote area.

As calculated by Mr. Shea, the financial situation at Clinch Valley looks like this

RESOLUTION

At a regular meeting of the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia held at the college in Wise, Virginia on Wednesday, December 18, 1957, and presided over by Professor Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Chairman, this Faculty voted upon and passed the following resolution

THAT WHEREAS, the President of the University of Virginia, Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., having rendered outstanding service in the establishment and the perpetuation of Clinch Valley College,

THAT WHEREAS, Mr. Darden gave, not only of his time, but of his personal means in helping to establish this institution,

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia do hereby recommend that the new academic building to be built at Clinch Valley College be named Darden Hall,

WHEREFORE, the said Faculty at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia does hereby request that this resolution be placed before the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia at its next meeting,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution be sent to Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Secretary of the Board of Visitors, Alderman Library Building, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.

1958-59

1959-60

Projected Income

$ 81,000

$ 88,000

State Appropriation

76,650

78,185

Total

$157,650

$166,185

Minimum Budget

$157,504

$160,234

I think we should ask the Board for permission to go ahead with some slight increases in fees at Clinch Valley College to make increases in faculty salaries to bring them in line with proposed increases at Mary Washington, Longwood, etc.

Mr. Smiddy, Mr. Shea, and I have reviewed the situation and think that, by increasing the charge per semester-hour from $8.50 to $9.50 for college and education courses, and from $12.00 to $12.50 for engineering courses, and including $10 for library fees and $10 for activity fees, we feel we can make the necessary increases and promotions which will amount to $7,300. In my judgment, we must make the increases if we are to retain our present staff and attract new people to this rather remote area.

As calculated by Mr. Shea, the financial situation at Clinch Valley looks like this

RESOLUTION

At a regular meeting of the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia held at the college in Wise, Virginia on Wednesday, December 18, 1957, and presided over by Professor Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Chairman, this Faculty voted upon and passed the following resolution

THAT WHEREAS, the President of the University of Virginia, Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., having rendered outstanding service in the establishment and the perpetuation of Clinch Valley College,

THAT WHEREAS, Mr. Darden gave, not only of his time, but of his personal means in helping to establish this institution,

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that the Faculty of Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia do hereby recommend that the new academic building to be built at Clinch Valley College be named Darden Hall,

WHEREFORE, the said Faculty at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia does hereby request that this resolution be placed before the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia at its next meeting,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution be sent to Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Secretary of the Board of Visitors, Alderman Library Building, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.
