---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1958'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1958) April 12, 1958
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 12, 1958

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

19 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MR. TALBOTT REELECTED RECTORSECRETARY REELECTEDCOMMITTEE ON STUDENT PUBLICATIONS APPOINTEDGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSMILITARY APPOINTMENTSPROMOTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSDEPARTMENT OF PREVENTIVE MEDICINE NAMEDFEES FOR LIBRARY AND STUDENT UNIONGRADUATE SCHOOL FEES AND LOANSBOWLES PROPERTYSTUDENT PUBLICATIONS AND THE \`SPECTATOR'NORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGECLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY HOUSINGBABCOCK AND WILCOX COMPANY CONTRACTEXCHANGE OF PORTRAITS WITH VIRGINIA MUSEUMTHOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIPSTHOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIPLAW PROFESSORSHIPS, SPECIAL CHAIRSDEATH OF PROFESSOR SAMUEL A. VESTENGINEERING BUILDING DESIGNATTORNEY'S SPECIAL COMPENSATIONPROFESSOR KOWNACKI'S PROTESTNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE FEES INCREASEDMARINERS' MUSEUM LEASE TO RIVERSIDE HOSPITALLEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR PROFESSIONAL STUDYMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRESIGNATIONSDEATHS OF PROFESSORS FRDELYI AND KEITHMONTHLY PAYMENT PLAN OF STUDENT EXPENSESPURCHASE OF PROPERTYDELINQUENT LOAN FUND NOTES CHARGED OFFRENOVATION OF BATHS IN VIRGINIA HALL DORMITORYDEBT AMORTIZATION, RESTORATION OF FUNDSUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA — MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGELOAN AUTHORIZATION 215-95SCHANCELLOR SIMPSON TO ATTEND CONFERENCEFIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY FOUNDER'S DAY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Valerian Lada-Mocrasky, set of 1914 Russian work on Asiatic Russia entitled "Aziatskaia Rossiia", valued at

$1,200.00

From an anonymous donor, for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship for the 1958-59 session

$1,000.00

From Mrs. A. G. A. Balz, for binding unbound volumes donated to the library from Dr. Balz's collection

201.39

From Mrs. Doris K. Neale, for the Doris K. Neale Fellowship for the 1958-59 session

500.00

From an anonymous donor, contribution for a debate prize for students majoring in economics and commerce

150.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education in support of the Medical School

33,850.00

From the American Medical Education Foundation, in support of the Medical School

10,061.53

From the English-Speaking Union, Charlottesville Branch, balance due on English-Speaking Union Fellowship for the 1957-58 session

584.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

2,824.00

From the Surgery Wives Club, to be used for the Hospital

100.00

From the Institute of Life Insurance, to cover cost of a workshop in Family Finance Education during the 1958 summer session

3,000.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, to the Engineering School

3,500.00

From Mr. A. A. Hyde, to be added to the D. C. Hyde Memorial Fund

500.00

From the Cavalier Christmas Fund, to be added to the D. C. Hyde Memorial Fund

200.00

From various sources, to be added to the Lehman Memorial Fund

160.00

From Mrs. J. T. Wilson, to be added to the James T. Wilson Foundation

1,000.00

From the General Electric Educational and Charitable Fund, a contribution equal to those received under the General Electric Corporate Alumnus Program

340.00

From various sources, to be added to the Frank Lahey Fund

505.00

From various sources, to be added to the James T. Wilson Foundation

764.00

From the Duke Laboratory Foundation, to the Dept. of Dermatology and Syphilology for research

500.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund, securities valued at

1,199.81

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours Company, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris of the School of Engineering

18,041.00

From the U. S. Army Signal Corps, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

8,850.00

From Merck and Company, continued research under the direction of Prof. R. T. Major, of the Dept. of Chemistry

20,000.00

From the American Trudeau Society, for research under the direction of Dr. J. B. Littlefield, of the School of Medicine

3,264.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. T. Gwathmey, of the Dept. of Chemistry

4,284.00

From the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories, for research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris of the School of Engineering

32,000.00

From the U. S. Army, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau of the Ordnance Research Laboratory

15,877.00

From the Philadelphia Ordnance District, U. S. Army, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, of the Ordnance Research Laboratory

12,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Dr. F. L. Hereford of the Department of Physics

14,200.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research under the direction of Prof. G. T. Whyburn of the Dept. of Mathematics

5,735.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. A. T. Gwathmey

24,000.00

Dr. W. R. Sandusky

2,000.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

18,000.00

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

55,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. J. Rappaport

$2,300.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

9,200.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

8,800.00

Dr. Vincent Hollander

24,250.00

For Students in the College, Education and Commerce

9.50

per semester-hour

For Terminal Students

9.50

per class-hour

For Engineering Courses

12.50

per semester-hour

Special Fees Student Activity Fee

10.00

per semester

Library Fee

10.00

per semester

Item 488

First Year

Second Year

For restoring funds previously available to reduce local loans

$351,390

AUTHORIZED DEFICIT

DEBIT

CREDIT

BALANCE

Dining Hall addition

$184,112.05

Infirmary

91,907.23

Fine Arts Building

666,958.36

New Dormitories

184,189.27

Student Activities Bldg.

229,348.66

$1,356,515.57

APPLICATION TOWARD REDUCTION IN INDEBTEDNESS

CREDIT

BALANCE

M & O surplus of 6-30-55

$411,909.24

$944,606.33

M & O surplus of 6-30-56 (actual surplus was $451,389.78; however, only $100,000.00 allowed toward debt reduction)

100,000.00

844,606.33

M & O surplus of 6-30-57

205,346.84

639,259.49

Estimated surplus at 6-30-58

150,000.00

489,259.49

Amount in 1958-1960 Budget for reduction in indebtedness

351,390.00

137,869.49

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 A.M. in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, at Fredericksburg, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Greear, Hartfield, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Absent: Visitors Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Jones, and Paschall.

The minutes of the meeting of 1 February 1958, previously distributed, were approved as amended by the Rector.

The Visitors' attention having been drawn to the statutory requirement that a Rector and Secretary be elected at this meeting, the Board unanimously resolved, upon motion of Mr. Smith, that Mr. Talbott be reelected Rector for the four-year term ending on 28 February 1962.

The Rector informed the Board that he anticipated the resignation of Mr. Berkeley as the Board's Secretary at an early date, because of the pressures of professional work, but pointed out that Mr. Berkeley's reelection would in no way interfere with his resignation as soon as a replacement should be available. The Board accordingly reelected Mr. Berkeley as Secretary for the four-year term ending on 28 February 1962.

In response to a resolution of the Board, as noted below, the Rector appointed as a special committee to study student publications, and to report back to the Executive Committee with recommendations for action to be taken prior to the close of the present session on June 9th, the following: Visitors Greear (chairman), Bryan, and Martin.

The President announced the following gifts and grants:

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. William R. Manierre, II, as Instructor in English, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $5,500.

Mr. Nolan E. Smith as Instructor in English, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $5,000.

Dr. Benedict Nagler as Lecturer in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of March 1, 1958, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Quincy Wright as Professor of Foreign Affairs for three years, effective in September, 1958, at a session salary of $12,500.

Dr. Harry J. Hyer as Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of May 1, 1958, his salary to be paid by the D.A.S.R.

Mr. Archer Jones as Dean and Associate Professor of History at Clinch Valley College, effective July 1, 1958, at an annual salary of $6,000, $5,500 as Associate Professor and $500 for his duties as Dean, plus $880 for summer teaching.

Mr. James Kermit Mullins as Instructor in Engineering at Clinch Valley College for the session 1958-59, at a session salary of $4,400.

Mr. John Benjamin Stonis as Librarian at Clinch Valley College, beginning September 1, 1958, at an annual salary of $5,400 for 12 months' service.

Mr. John Graham as Instructor in English as of September 1958, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Eugene Albert as Junior Instructor in Mathematics as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $4,500, $2,250 of his salary for teaching from State funds and $2,250 for research from a grant from the National Science Foundation.

Dr. Dumas Malone as Visiting Professor of History for the session of 1958-59 at no salary from the University, upon terms as set forth below.

Dr. Harold Anthony O'Hern, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering for three years, effective in September, 1958, at a session salary of $6,900.

Mr. A. P. Batson as Instructor in Physics, beginning in September, 1958, at a session salary of $5,500.

Dr. Will Edgerton as Lecturer in Chinical Psychology in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of May 1, 1958, at no salary from the University.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following re-election be and it is hereby made

Dr. Donald Rathbun, Instructor in Neurology, for one year, beginning July 1, 1958.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Mr. Martin Lindsey Cowen, Professor of Law, from September 1, 1958, to July 1, 1959, to do graduate study at Harvard University.

Mr. Eric Wolf, Assistant Professor of Anthropology in the Department of Sociology, for the session of 1958-59, to serve as Visiting Assistant Professor at Yale University and to do some research.

Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Assistant Professor of Music, for the session of 1957-58, to complete work toward his doctorate at Harvard University.

Mr. W. S. Weedon, Professor of Philosophy and Chairman of that Department, for the second semester of the session of 1958-59.

The Board adopted the following resolutions

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following persons be and they are hereby accepted

Mr. Benjamin S. Martin, Head Football Coach, as of February 1, 1958.

Mr. Frederick L. Gwynn, Associate Professor of English, as of the end of the session of 1957-58, to take a position as head of the Department of English at Trinity College, Hartford, Connecticut.

Dr. Patricia M. Andrews, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, as of April 1, 1958, to enter private practice.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The President announced the following appointments:

Miss Margaret Tyson as Dean of the School of Nursing, effective July 1, 1958.

Mr. Richard Voris as Head Football Coach, effective as of February 1, 1958.

Mr. James W. Cole, Professor of Chemistry, as Dean of the Extension Division, effective September 1, 1958.

Mr. Overton H. Taylor, of Harvard University, as Distinguished Visiting Scholar for the six months' period of August 1, 1958, to February 1, 1959, at a salary of $6,600. His salary is to come from the funds of the Thomas Jefferson Center.

Mr. George Williams Keeton, Dean of the Faculty of Laws, University College, London, as Thomas Jefferson Visiting Scholar for the second semester of the 1958-59 session at a salary of $5,600, the funds to come from the Thomas Jefferson Center.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, President Darden announced the following appointments

Captain Harry I. Miller as Assistant Professor of Air Science effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Lieutenant Colonel Graydon F. Fredrickson as Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Lieutenant Richard E. Gleason as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Major Richard F. B. Gimmi, Jr., as Associate Professor of Air Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Lieutenant (jg) William W. Conder as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Captain Robert B. Beaumont as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, as of the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

Lieutenant Colonel Robert V. Allen, USMC, as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1958, at no salary from the University.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Dr. Howard Ashbury, Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry, to Assistant Clinical Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of March 1, 1958, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Robert J. Morgan, Visiting Associate Professor of Political Science, to Associate Professor of Political Science, as of September, 1958, at a session salary of $7,000.

Dr. Randolph T. Major, from Acting Professor of Chemistry, part-time, to Professor of Chemistry, part-time, effective in September, 1958.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 736, 739, 740, 743, 746, 747, 750, 753 and 754, aggregating $101,711.86, as recommended by it.

There followed a discussion of the heavy financial burden imposed on the University by the failure of county and city governments to provide adequately for the care of indigents at the University Hospital.

The Board resolved that the Medical Committee make a fresh study of the problem of indigent hospital costs and proceed with a definite plan for remedial action, preferably through the General Assembly.

In response to a letter of 30 January 1958 from Dean Hunter presented to the Board by the President, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Department of Social and Environmental Medicine in the School of Medicine be and it is hereby renamed the Department of Preventive Medicine.

President Darden discussed the progress on Newcomb Hall and plans for its opening, and read to the Board the following letter from the Comptroller which it had not been practicable for the Board to consider on February 1st

I note that a copy of Mr. Minor's opinion concerning the authority of the Board to reduce the library fee has been sent to you. Based on this opinion, I should like to recommend that the Board be asked this Saturday to reduce the library fee from the present $20.00 to $6.00, and that it be made applicable to all students enrolled. Based on the estimated enrollment next session of 5,000, this will yield $30,000, an amount more than adequate to cover the principal and interest charges.

I should like to recommend that the Board establish a student union fee to defray the major part of the cost of operating Newcomb Hall. I should like to recommend that this fee be $14.00, which would yield $70,000, based on the projected enrollment next session. Thus, the total charge to students would remain the same.

If at all possible, I hope that the Board can consider the matter this Saturday as we should like to make the change in as many catalogues as possible, as well as in other notices which have to be prepared very soon for distribution to entering students.

After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the present Library Building Fee be and it is hereby reduced from twenty dollars ($20.00) a session to six dollars ($6.00) a session,

RESOLVED further that a Student Union Fee of fourteen dollars ($14.00) a session be and it is hereby established in support of the operating costs of Newcomb Hall,

RESOLVED further that payment of both the Library Building Fee and the Student Union Fee be required of all regularly enrolled students in the University, effective at the beginning of the 1958-59 session.

The President read to the Board the following letter

May I take this opportunity to submit the attached proposal for revising the statement of fees on pages 34 and 35 in the catalogue of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. If these proposals meet with your approval, would you please submit them to the Board for their action if this is necessary.

Furthermore, I would like to establish some uniformity of overall graduate student fees and costs, for students in all departments of the Graduate School, where, because of the diverse subject matters to be studied, there are considerable differences in the proportion of course work to laboratory work and therefore, in the past, different rates of tuition. It seems to me, that a candidate for the Doctor's degree should pay full fees for at least two academic session while he is completing his course program and the reduced fees for one or more academic sessions while he is completing his research, dissertation, and other requirements, of if the student requires more than three or four years because of part-time employment, he should pay the equivalent, i.e., half-time fees for four academic sessions plus the additional necessary sessions of part-time fees.

Finally, I should like to propose that a limited amount of University loan funds be made available to graduate students on a special basis. Mr. Moyer advises me that some of the special loan funds do not seem to be much used. Graduate students are mature, most of them with family responsibilities, and the possession of a Doctor's degree means an increase in their future salaries of up to a $1000 a year. Therefore, it would be a sound financial investment for a graduate student to incur even a substantial debt, in order to devote full-time to his degree program and earn the degree promptly, rather than working part-time and delaying his degree several years. Our regular graduate fellowships will nearly support a single student for the nine months session, but it is useless to offer a stipend of $1000 plus the tuition fee to a man with a wife and one or two small children. There are even some single students who must devote so much time and energy to an outside job for support, that they are unable to earn the very high grades necessary for them to compete successfully for a du Pont Fellowship, so they are caught in a kind of vicious circle of never getting their head sufficiently above water to be able to proceed full-time with their graduate work.

If these considerations seem to you to have some merit, would you be willing to authorize a committee consisting of Mr. Shea, Mr. Vaughan, myself and perhaps others, to submit some definite recommendations for making loans in special cases, up to $1000 or $1200 a year at an interest rate of 3%? With the prospect of additional fellowship programs from both the federal government and charitable foundations, there will not be a large number of cases requiring loans of this magnitude. However, there will be individual cases in which a substantial loan will make a great deal of difference.

During the discussion that followed, President Darden noted that the proposals had been studied and were favored by the Comptroller. The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED that the Catalogue of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences be revised, effective for the session of 1958-59, so that the two paragraphs under the heading PART-TIME FEES shall read as follows

"Students taking only one subject pay one-third of the regular tuition fee, plus the library building, medical, Student Union, and student activities fees. Students taking only two subjects pay one-half of the regular tuition fee, plus all additional fees. Students taking more than two courses are considered full-time students and pay all tuition and auxiliary fees.

"Students not in residence at the University who wish to return to take an examination, submit a thesis or dissertation, or receive a degree pay a $5.00 tuition fee for that semester and are exempt from all other fees. Students in residence who have completed their course programs, and who are registered for thesis, dissertation or research, pay a $15.00 tuition fee each semester, plus the library building, medical, Student Union, and student activities fees."

RESOLVED further that the President be and he is hereby authorized to proceed to set up a special loan plan for graduate students at low interest as proposed in Dean Hammond's letter.

President Darden laid before the Board a letter of 10 January 1958 from William S. Hildreth proposing the purchase by the University of the Bowles tract on the old Ivy Road (adjacent to the Hulvey and McGavock properties at a price of $2,000 an acre. The President also presented a letter and enclosure from the Comptroller as follows

I enclose copy of Mr. William Hanckel's letter concerning the above property. Mr. O'Grince and I have examined the property and recommend that the Board of Visitors be requested to authorize the purchase of the property, under the terms set forth in Mr. Hanckel's letter.

This property will be ideal for a faculty housing development. Mr. Hanckel has informed me that Mrs. Bowles has turned down an offer substantially higher than that at which she has offered the property to the University, as she would much prefer its sale to the University.

Confirming our conversation of today, Mrs. Bowles would like to work out an arrangement whereby she would sell the University 39 acres less 9.818 acres. This 9.818 acres she will agree to sell the University when she desires to upon giving the University 90 day notice.

The University would pay Mrs. Bowles $58,364 for the 29.182 acres now and $19,636 for the 9.818 acres with delivery of same.

This offer is made to the University of Virginia and to no one else.

After further discussion the Board resolved that the proposal to purchase the Bowles property be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and that the Committee be authorized after examining the property, to commit the Board to its purchase if that should seem desirable.

There was an extensive discussion involving two problems relating to student publications (1) the recurring debate within the University over the propriety of subsidizing, through fees imposed upon all students, student publication whose editors often narrowly restrict their function to serving minority groups, and (2) the complaints made against the Mid-Winters Issue of The Virginia Spectator.

Discussion of the Spectator centered around two documents. (1) the Report of the Faculty Committee appointed by the President, and (2) President Darden's letter to the Spectator Corporation Board of the Jefferson Society, as set forth below

Your special committee on the Paunch issue of The Spectator submits its report herewith. You asked us to determine whether or not this issue of The Spectator discredited the name of the University of Virginia, and if so, whether to a degree sufficient to warrant your bringing the matter before the Student Council.

You have asked for a relative judgment, and we express our judgment in relative terms. Our unanimous opinion is that the Paunch issue does discredit the name of the University of Virginia. The degree of the offense, however, we think should be measured by comparison with the much more serious discredit brought upon the University by contemporaneous issues of The Cavalier Daily.

Measured in this or any other way, however, the objectionable character of Paunch does not seem to us primarily a problem for punitive action. The irresponsibility of Paunch and The Cavalier Daily alike seem to us natural products of the University's present policy of permitting student sovereignty, one can hardly punish students for doing something for which they have never realized they might be held responsible. As to the past, therefore, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council.

As to the future, which is the important aspect of the problem, here, too, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council. We believe that the important question for the future raised by the Paunch magazine is this. Are students at the University of Virginia to continue to enjoy license or are they hereafter to be held responsible to University authority? We believe that the necessarily normative function of any educational institution makes the latter policy preferable here, and moreover we believe that the majority of the people of the Commonwealth favor the latter policy. In any case, since this is a question which the student body cannot ultimately decide, we conclude that there is little reason to take the Paunch problem to the Student Council.

Since you specifically requested that the committee make no positive recommendation for the disposition of this case, we assume that this report completes our work. We ask that you accept the report and discharge the committee.

I send you this note to confirm the views expressed to you in our talk a few days ago about the Spectator. Since Mr. Carlson, the Editor, is not eligible to continue the direction of the magazine, because of academic probation, you will be required to appoint a new editor and approve the staff selected by him. In doing this I wish you to bear in mind that though you act as the Board chosen by the Jefferson Society which owns Spectator, you act also as representatives of the University. In fact as in the public understanding, a magazine published by a student group at the University, using University buildings and under the control of a society of the University with long and distinguished history, has an important sanction from the University. The public may with reason judge the University accordingly. The University's reputation is dear to all of us who serve it and love it. It is not the property of one small group to be dealt with in the uncontrolled judgment of that group, however honest that judgment may be.

I do not share the warm approval of the recent "Paunch" issue expressed by the Student Council. There runs through it, especially in the jokes, coarseness and vulgarity which are utterly out of keeping with the innate good taste which has distinguished the University of Virginia in the past and which we hope will mark it in the future. Moreover, one article - "The Decline and Fall of American Humor" was plagiarized directly from an editorial in The News Leader, but, as the editor of that paper says, "with a butcher's hand."

It is not enough to plead the tendencies of the times as an excuse for commonness. The publication of smutty and, in some instances, utterly revolting jokes and questionable stories cannot be justified as necessary in order to make a student publication sell. This is a form of intellectual prostitution.

Universities are under an enduring obligation to establish and maintain standards that are calculated to lift the intellectual and spiritual level of the societies of which they are a part. To pander to that which is unworthy for the sake of profit or cheap popularity, as does the last issue of Spectator, is to betray the great tradition of which our universities and colleges are at once the inheritors and the protectors.

The editors of Spectator do not act for themselves alone. They act for an old and honorable society which bears the name of the founder of this University, and they act for the University, the founding of which was the crowning achievement of his long and useful life. If students wish, acting only for themselves and over their own names, to compete in the open market place with the salacious and offensive publications found there, they may do so and take their chances with others engaged in such activities, even though I would deeply regret such action. But they should not be permitted to associate with themselves, in order to lend respectability to such ventures, the name of this University.

As I told you when you were good enough to meet with me earlier this week, I shall discuss this matter with the Board at its April meeting and I shall then talk with you further.

After further discussion, during which President Darden pointed out that any action by the Board affecting student publications ought to be taken during term (i.e., prior to Final Day, June 9th), the Board adopted two resolutions as follows

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that, having taken notice of the President's letter of 2 April 1958 to the Spector Corporation Board of the Jefferson Society, publishers of The Virginia Spectator, this Board approves the position taken by the President.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Rector appoint a special committee to study student publications, and their financial support, and report back to the Executive Committee of the Board as soon as possible.

The Rector, the President, and the Secretary laid before the Board numerous resolutions, telegrams, and letters relative to the permanent site of the branch college in Northern Virginia. These messages were, as usual, in favor of the Board's choice of the Bowman tract at Sunset Hills by an overwhelming ratio, roughly ten to one. These included a resolution from the Washington, D. C. Alumni, the University's largest Alumni chapter, endorsing the Board's action.

The President stated that the draft of a deed of conveyance from the Messrs. Bowman for the Sunset Hills tract had been approved by the attorneys for the Bowmans and for the University. President Darden said that he could not ask the Board to approve execution of the deed today because the Governor has not yet given approval of the acceptance of the tract, and the Governor's approval is required by statute before the University can accept any gift which may involve future costs to the State. Regret was expressed that this delay might prove costly to the Bowmans. The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED that the President and other administrative officers of the University be and they are hereby directed to accept and execute a deed of conveyance from the Messrs. Bowman for the Sunset Hills tract, in the form agreed upon by the attorneys for the respective parties, as soon as the Governor's approval shall have been obtained in accordance with statutory requirements.

The Rector read to the Board a letter of 10 April 1958 from Mr. C. Harrison Mann, enclosing a resolution of February 25th from the Alexandria City Council and a resolution of March 26th adopted at an adjourned meeting of the Board of Supervisors of Fairfax County, and requesting a statement of the University's intentions regarding choice of a permanent site in Northern Virginia for the branch college, which is now occupying quarters at Bailey's Cross Roads.

The Board resolved, after a brief discussion, that the Secretary again convey to Mr. Mann the text of the Board's Resolution of February 1st approving the Sunset Hills tract.

The Visitors also expressed their approval of the statement issued to the press by the Rector following the February 1st Board meeting, and instructed the Secretary to send to Mr. Mann a copy of that statement also, as follows

"The Board favors and has voted to accept the Sunset Hills tract offered by the Messrs. Bowman. Its decision is based on the conviction that the site will best serve the needs of the communities involved considering present and future requirements."

Members continued to concur in the President's plan to continue college classes at Bailey's Cross Roads, in accordance with needs, for some years after the permanent college shall have been established at Sunset Hills.

The Rector reported that on March 3rd the Executive Committee had authorized the execution by the President of a contract with the E. L. Ford Construction Company for erection of faculty housing units at the Clinch Valley College at a cost of $127,888.00 as approved by the Governor on February 26th.

The Board resolved that the foregoing action of the Executive Committee be approved and that the signed resolution of the Committee be filed with the minutes of today's Board meeting.

It was also reported by the Rector that the Babcock and Wilcox Co. contract for the Atomic Reactor, as considered by the Board last October, had been revised by the respective attorneys, and that the Executive Committee had approved its execution by the President in its revised form.

The Board resolved that the Executive Committee's favorable action on the Babcock and Wilcox Co. contract be approved, and that a copy of the contract be placed in the University's official file of contracts.

President Darden read to the Board a letter from the Director of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts (as set forth below) and presented also photographs of the two portraits discussed by Mr. Cheek, together with communications from Mr. Charles W. Smith, Chairman of the Department of Art, and Mr. William B. O'Neal, Director of the University Museum, recommending the proposed exchange.

Our mutual friend and benefactor, Mrs. Preston Davie, has now given each of our institutions a work of art. To the University in 1956 came a small (25 3/8″h × 19 1/2″w) portrait of Raleigh, and to the Museum in 1957, a larger (45″h × 32 1/2″w) portrait of Burke. The official appraisals by French and Company are. Raleigh $7,500, Burke $8,500. I enclose photographs of each portrait.

You most generously lent the Raleigh portrait to us for our England's World of 1607 exhibition, staged during the spring and summer of 1957 as our contribution to the Jamestown Festival; and since the closing of this display the portrait has been on view in our gallery devoted to English art of the 16th and 17th centuries. Here we have contemporary portraits of persons related historically to Virginia. Sir Thomas Dale, James I and his wife, Anne of Denmark, etc., including a rare painting of William Byrd I, as a boy, when he was in England being "educated".

The Raleigh portrait adds so much to this appropriate and growing group that our Trustees and Staff would like very much to make the arrangement permanent. Also, we already have a portrait by Copley, who painted the Burke. Therefore, we have the following proposal to make to you.

We would like to give you the Burke in return for the Raleigh. Mrs. Davie has been consulted about this and is entirely agreeable. Also, Mr. William B. O'Neal, Curator of your Museum of Fine Arts at the University, has personally inspected both portraits and written a report (copy attached) giving his favorable reactions to our proposal.

We hope that the exchange will also appeal to you, and that it soon can be consummated officially. Here, apparently, we have one of those rare occasions where all concerned will be benefitted.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with the exchange of the Raleigh portrait for the Burke portrait as recommended and as approved by the donor of both portraits, Mrs. Preston Davie.

President Darden presented to the Board a letter of 20 February 1958 from Professor Lewis M. Hammond, Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, enclosing and recommending approval of the following memorandum:

1\. The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation has recently adopted the following resolution. That there be established "not later than the college year 1959-60 the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships paying $1,500.00 per annum plus tuition, in general along the lines set forth in the Memorandum of July 10, 1957, from Mr. Oron J. Hale, Chairman of the Department of History, to Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University, and contribute up to $5,000.00 per year towards such Fellowships, with the understanding that this Foundation would match the amount put up by the University up to $5,000.00 and would, if Fellows of the desired type in sufficient number can be obtained, put up additional amounts, it being contemplated that the Foundation would in such case contribute at least $15,000.00 per year towards the expense of these Fellowships and quite possibly even more in the future."

2\. It is recommended that this offer be accepted and that the proposed fellowships be described and awarded on the following terms

"From five to ten fellowships with income of not less than $1500 plus tuition fee. These fellowships, provided by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation with a view to perpetuating the spirit and ideals of Thomas Jefferson, are awarded competetively to beginning or advanced graduate students in History and Political Science by the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, upon the recommendation of the respective Departments. Preference will be given to applicants who expect to make a career of college teaching and whose interests focus generally upon the history, ideas and institutions of the Age of Jefferson. The fellowships are renewable upon recommendation of the Department concerned."

3\. These Fellowships, with tuition, would amount to $1730 for resident Virginians and $1960 for non-residents. To finance the program for approximately ten fellows would require $20,000 annually, of which the University would contribute $5,000 and the Foundation $15,000. The proposal that the program be initiated with an equal amount ($5,000) from the Foundation and the University of Virginia, with the Foundation contributing up to $15,000 as suitable candidates are selected, seems entirely reasonable. In the first year probably no more than five awards would be made.

4\. It is recommended that the fellowship proposals of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation be accepted.

The Board adopted after discussion the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships in History and Political Science be and they are hereby established, effective at the beginning of the 1959-1960 session, in accordance with the foregoing Memorandum of 12 February 1958, from the Departments of History or Political Science, which is hereby approved and adopted,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University of Virginia shall contribute five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) annually, beginning with the session of 1959-1960, toward support of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the offer of The Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation to contribute at least fifteen thousand dollars annually toward support of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships, beginning with the session of 1959-1960 (provided that in this and each succeeding session applicants approved by the Department of History or by the Department of Political Science are available in sufficient numbers and quality to require this sum or more) be and it is hereby gratefully accepted.

President Darden informed the Board that there exists an opportunity to procure as a member of the Faculty the noted historian and Jefferson scholar, Mr. Dumas Malone, and at the same time to encourage and assist Mr. Malone in completing his widely acclaimed biography of Thomas Jefferson. Mr. Darden reported that the following resolution had been adopted by the Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation at that Board's December, 1957 meeting:

RESOLVED: That the Board, having considered the report of its Education Committee, hereby authorizes the officers of the Foundation to enter into a contract with Mr. Dumas Malone containing substantially the following provisions, the officers being authorized however to make such changes in the understanding as may be within the general spirit of the arrangement and may be approved by them;

(1) The Foundation will arrange with the University of Virginia for the appointment by the University of Mr. Malone as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor, effective July 1, 1958. Mr. Malone's salary as such professor will be fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per year which will be paid by the Foundation. The employment, subject to usual provisions as to satisfactory service, retirement for reasons of health, etc. will be for a period terminating at the end of the college year ending June 30, 1963.

(2) To replace certain insurance benefits which will lapse upon Mr. Malone's resignation from Columbia the Foundation will on July 1, 1958 set up a trust fund of $7,000.00 with the Peoples National Bank of Charlottesville as Trustee with such terms as Mr. Malone may approve. As this fund is intended to take the place of insurance, presumably the income will be accumulated until Mr. Malone's death and the principal and accumulated income then paid to his estate or as he may otherwise direct.

(3) The Foundation will pay the expense of moving Mr. Malone's household goods to Charlottesville.

(4) Beginning with the college year 1959-1960 Mr. Malone would give a seminar course during each regular session at the University and would continue his work on his life of Jefferson. It is contemplated that Volume III of that work would be completed in 1959, Volume IV in 1961 and Volume V in 1963.

RESOLVED FURTHER That the Foundation enter into a contract or understanding with the University of Virginia and/or one of its funds under which the University and/or such fund would

1\. Provide Mr. Malone with office space in the Alderman Library when he takes up residence in Charlottesville.

2\. Provide Mr. Malone with a half-time secretary.

3\. Establish not later than the college year 1959-1960 the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships paying $1,500.00 per annum plus tuition, in general along the lines set forth in the Memorandum of July 10, 1957 from Mr. Oron J. Hale, Chairman of the Department of History, to Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University, and contribute up to $5,000.00 per year towards such Fellowships, with the understanding that this Foundation would match the amount put up by the University up to $5,000.00 and would, if Fellows of the desired type in sufficient number can be obtained, put up additional amounts, it being contemplated that the Foundation would in such case contribute at least $15,000.00 per year towards the expense of these Fellowships and quite possibly even more in the future.

The President also presented and expressed his approval of the following letters.

1\. The Corcoran Department of History recommends appointment of Dr. Dumas Malone as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History, effective July 1, 1959, and that during the session 1958-1959, when Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University, he be appointed Visiting Professor of History in the University of Virginia. The terms of the appointment are those stated in the "Resolution For The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation," of which paragraph one specifies the grants and salary to be paid to Professor Malone by the Foundation. Salary and Foundation grants will amount to $15,000 annually.

2\. In line with the above-mentioned Resolution it is further recommended that beginning with the session 1959-1960, Professor Malone offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session, and direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar or his work in the Department of History.

3\. If this recommended appointment requires justification, the following points should be emphasized. Professor Malone is one of the most distinguished American historians, he holds earned and honorary degrees from Yale, Northwestern, Dartmouth, Emory and Rochester, he was the editor-in-chief of the Dictionary of American Biography, the greatest achievement of cooperative scholarship ever undertaken in the field of American history, he is engaged in writing and publishing a multi-volumed life of Thomas Jefferson, which will be the definitive biography of the founder of this University, his appointment in the Department of History will greatly advance our graduate program and proposed fellowship program in Jefferson studies, and will make Professor Malone's services available to the Department for two years after the resignation of Professor Abernethy. This latter point is one of considerable importance to the Department owing to Professor Abernethy's impending retirement.

I concur with the Department of History in recommending that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Visiting Professor of History, without salary, for the academic year 1958-59 beginning July 1, 1958. During this time, Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University. It is my understanding that he will receive a supplemental research grant from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.

I transmit to you the recommendation of the Corcoran Department of History, with my concurrence, that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History effective July 1, 1959, for a term of three years, at a twelve month salary of $7,500 per year.

In accordance with the recent "Resolution for the Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation" on this subject, it is understood that the Foundation will pay an additional $7,500 on a twelve months annual basis as research grant to Dr. Malone. The salary for the professorship will also come from the foundation grant.

Professor Malone's duties as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History will be to offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session and to direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar work in the Department of History.

I enclose Mr. Hale's letter which in turn includes some biographical data. If you wish more, I will ask the Department of History to furnish it.

After discussion the Board adopted the following resolutions

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the offer of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation to pay to Mr. Dumas Malone, as a member of the University of Virginia Faculty and biographer of Thomas Jefferson, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) annually in salary and research grants (in addition to certain other perquisites, as contracted for between the Foundation and Mr. Malone), beginning on 1 July 1958 and continuing at least until 30 June 1963, be and it is hereby gratefully accepted by the University.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Dumas Malone be and he is hereby elected to the Faculty of the University of Virginia as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Visiting Professor of History for the session of 195859, upon terms arranged with the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Dumas Malone be and he is hereby elected as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History, effective on 1 July 1959, for a term of three years, upon terms arranged with the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University will furnish to Mr. Malone during the period of his professorship half-time secretarial assistance, and that the University will provide adequate shelving for Mr. Malone's books to be placed in a study room in the Alderman Library which room shall be reserved by the University Librarian for Mr. Malone's exclusive use.

President Darden read to the Board the following letter

I take pleasure in quoting the resolution unanimously adopted at a meeting of the University of Virginia Law School Foundation October 11, 1957, as follows

"Whereas it has been proposed that there be three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School and that the regular salaries of the occupants of such chairs be supplemented by grants from the Law School Foundation and endowment funds available to the University,

Resolved that, if the Board of Visitors of the University shall provide for annual grants from University endowment funds of $2,000 each to the occupants of three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School, until further action of this Committee the Law School Foundation will make annual grants of the same amount to the occupants of such chairs payable at the same time and in the same manner as the grants provided by the Board of Visitors."

The Board adopted after discussion the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that three special professorships in the School of Law be and they are hereby established as named chairs in accordance with the Board's resolution of 7 June 1957 and the resolution adopted by the University of Virginia Law School Foundation on 11 October 1957, with special compensation to be from local endowment funds and payable for summer work only.

Members suggested that the President proceed in this matter, and that he nominate the professors for approval at the Annual Meeting on June 14th.

The death of Dr. Samuel Alexander Vest on April 6th was announced to the Board by President Darden. Professor of Urology and Chairman of the Department of Urology at the time of his death, Dr. Vest had served on the faculty of the School of Medicine since 1939.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Dr. Vest was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes and to convey to Mrs. Vest the deep sense of loss felt by the Board, and the gratitude of the Visitors for Dr. Vest's distinguished and devoted services to the University.

President Darden presented a letter of 3 April 1958 from Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles, Dean of the School of Engineering, recommending the employment of Commonwealth Engineers and Architects Associated (Mr. Fred Q. Saunders and associates) to design the new engineering building.

The Board resolved that Dean Quarles' proposed employment of Commonwealth Engineers and Architects Associated be approved, subject to authorization by the Governor.

The President read a letter from Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel to the Board, stating that he had devoted 444 hours of his time during 1957 to University work, for which he had been remunerated only by his regular salary of $2400. If he had charged the usual hourly rate of $25.00 allowed by his firm, Mr. Minor said, his compensation would have been $11,100.00. He proposed payment of an additional fee of $1,000.

The Board resolved that the Comptroller be authorized to pay a special fee of $1,000 to Mr. Minor in addition to his regular salary of $2400 for legal work performed during 1957.

A letter of 10 April 1958 from Mr. Stanislaw Kownacki, Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, was read to the Board. Mr. Kownacki complained that Dean Quarles had denied him reappointment, which was perfectly legal, but that the Dean had given his reasons for this refusal in an objectionable manner, making Mr. Kownacki appear as "a target of slanderous attacks".

Taking note of the enclosed transcripts of discussions with Dean Quarles and Mr. Kownacki's defense, members inquired whether these had been examined by Mr. Minor, the University's Special Counsel. President Darden replied in the affirmative, and said that Mr. Minor could find no evidence of slander.

The Board accordingly resolved that Mr. Kownacki's appeal be denied.

President Darden presented the following schedule from the Comptroller of proposed increases in fees at the Northern Virginia College, pointing out that this would bring the fees into equality with the fees at Clinch Valley College, and recommending approval

The Board resolved that the tuition fees at the Northern Virginia College be increased to the amounts set forth above in the Comptroller's memorandum, effective for the session of 1958-59.

President Darden laid before the Board a five-page draft of a proposed lease, dated \_\_ April 1958, by the Mariners' Museum to the Newport News General and Non-Sectarian Hospital Association, Inc., for twenty-five acres of land on Routes 60 and 312 in Warwick, Virginia. Mr. Darden reported that this draft had been approved in form by Mr. Minor after some small corrections, and he also presented a letter of 10 April 1958 from Mr. William McL. Ferguson to Mr. Minor requesting the University's approval of the proposed lease.

The Board resolved after discussion that the proposed lease be approved in the form recommended by Mr. Minor, and that a copy of the lease be filed with the minutes of this meeting.

The President reported that the Governor had approved on March 24th for the University and its branches a proposal for professional leave for graduate study as set forth in the following memorandum

Professional Leave for Graduate Study

1\. The University may pay the faculty member approved for professional leave-of-absence for graduate study or research, an amount not to exceed one-half of the salary for his grade and rank in the faculty salary schedule for the period during which the leave-of-absence is granted.

2\. The recipient of the professional leave allowance shall agree that, after the completion of the approved leave-of-absence for graduate work or research, he will continue to teach at the University of Virginia immediately thereafter for a time at least twice as long as the time of the leave at the prevailing salary schedule, if the full allowance is made

3\. The recipient must sign a promissory note for the amount of the scholarship aid, which note is cancelled and returned to the applicant upon fulfillment of the contractual agreement. If, for any reason, the terms of this agreement can not be met, the recipient must repay the University on a pro rata basis for the specified time that was not worked as contracted.

APPROVED

There were expressions of general approval of the plan.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mrs. Viola Peterson Butzner as Instructor in Art, part-time, for the second semester of the session 1957-58, at a salary of $1000.

Mr. Charles Christopher Crittenden, Jr., as acting Instructor in Philosophy for the second semester of the session 1957-58, at a salary of $2200.

Mrs. Leatrice Ann Voorhees Grove as Acting Instructor in Psychology (parttime) from November 1, 1957, through June 1, 1958, at a salary of $200 a month.

Mr. Gerald George Herdman as Instructor in History for the second semester of the session 1957-58, at a salary of $2200.

Mr. George Steiner as Assistant Professor in Music (part-time) for the second semester of the session 1957-58, at a salary of $500.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members at Mary Washington College be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. H. Lynn Womack as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, as of February 1, 1958.

Mrs. Elena Krupenski as Instructor in Ceramics, as of June 1, 1958. (On leave of absence Session 1957-58)

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Chancellor announced to the Board the deaths of Dr. Warren G. Keith, Professor of History, on January 9, 1958, and of Dr. Michael Frdelyi, Professor of Psychology, on February 14, 1958.

There were expressions of regret for the loss of these two valued teachers and of appreciation for their services to the College.

Chancellor Simpson and Mr. Woodward reported a plan presented by Mr. George J. Link, President of Guaranteed Education, Incorporated, located in the Arlington Trust Building, 1515 N. Courthouse Road, Arlington, Virginia, for monthly payments of student expenses. This plan carries with it an insurance feature guaranteeing the four year education of the student should the parent become completely disabled or deceased. There is an initial fee of $25.00 which is paid once during the four year period. The cost to the parent of a student who is not a resident of the state of Virginia amounts to $61.91 per year for the insurance feature. For a student who is a resident of the state of Virginia, the cost is $38.58 per year. These charges are based on the expenses applicable to the 1958-59 session.

There is no interest charge since the monthly payments would have to be made in advance, beginning on April 1. The corporation remits to the college at the beginning of each school semester the payment in full if the parent has not defaulted in any of the monthly payments. The plan carries no obligations or liability on the part of the college. The college permits a letter to go out either on college stationery or on stationery of the corporation, depending upon the attitude of the college, informing the parents that such a plan is available to them.

Members pointed out during the discussion that it would be unwise for the College to sponsor officially any one insurance company or other corporation, since other companies may in future offer programs in Virginia in competition with that of Guaranteed Education, Inc. Others commented that the Bursar has authority to arrange to receive payments at intervals on an individual basis, and also that individual students and parents could contract with such a corporation as Guaranteed Education, Inc., without sponsorship by the College.

The Board resolved that the College shall not participate in promoting the

The Chancellor proposed the purchase of a tract of land consisting of approximately one-fourth of an acre located in the area between the dining hall and the Fine Arts Center. This property, which was formerly the Fredericksburg Aquaduct Company, is now owned by the local hospital. It was given to the hospital by Mr. Archer Smith, owner of the Sunshine Laundry, in connection with a hospital drive for funds for expansion of the hospital. The College was not aware of the change in ownership until recently informed by the hospital authorities. At the time the gift was made to the hospital, an evaluation was made on the property of $7,500, and building lots located in the vicinity of the college are selling for approximately $3,000.

After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to enter into negotiations with the Mary Washington Hospital for the purchase of property, consisting of approximately one-fourth of an acre, located on the college campus, which was given to the hospital by the Sunshine Laundry of Fredericksburg, at a price not to exceed $3,500.

Chancellor Simpson reported that a total of $8,902.35 in old delinquent state loan fund notes of the 1920's and 1930's had been charged off. In the early part of 1957, it was called to our attention that delinquent state loan fund notes should be turned over to the State Treasurer for collection. This was done. At a later date we wrote the State Treasurer asking for a statement of his progress regarding the collection of these notes. He replied that the notes were uncollectible and recommended that permission be obtained from the Governor and the Attorney General to charge off the notes. The Appropriation Act states that permission must be obtained from the Governor and the Attorney General and the State Treasurer to charge off uncollectible state loan fund notes. The Attorney General wrote on December 16 and the Governor wrote on December 23 authorizing the college to charge off the notes with the understanding that we will continue to hold them in a suspense file and make an effort to collect them. Since authorization to charge off the notes, they have been carried in a suspense file and approximately $234.00 has been collected.

The Chancellor discussed the need for renovating the old gang baths in Virginia Hall, where obsolete plumbing has caused flooding and required frequent repair. Dr. Simpson estimated modernizing costs at a figure between $20,000 and $30,000.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the officials of Mary Washington College be and are hereby authorized to enter into a contract with the architects, in accordance with the terms of the State policy, for the preparation of plans and specifications to install modern bath facilities in Virginia Hall Dormitory, to be paid from the operating funds of the College.

And,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the officials of Mary Washington College be and are hereby authorized to enter into a contract with the successful bidder for the modernization of the bath facilities in Virginia Hall Dormitory in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by the College architects, to be paid from the operating funds of the College.

The Chancellor reminded the Board of the unhappy circumstances (set forth in the Board minutes of 15 September and 8 December 1956) of the summer of 1956, when the Governor by an executive order dated 8 August 1956 denied the College the right to use its accumulated surplus to reduce its large debt. By this order the Governor had transferred $351,389.78 from the College's surplus to the General Fund of the Commonwealth, leaving only $100,000 to reduce the debt to a balance of $844,606.33.

The Governor's subsequent promise on 21 November 1956 to request legislative restoration of the debt retirement fund had been duly carried out, Dr. Simpson noted. Unfortunately, however, retrieving of the funds for retiring the debt is complicated by a last-minute amendment to the 1958-1960 budget inserted by the Senate Finance Committee, as follows

It is provided, however, that this appropriation of $351,390 shall not become available for expenditure until all indebtedness of the said Mary Washington College to the State Treasury, in excess of $351,390, has been paid in full by funds obtained from sources other than the general fund of the State Treasury, including as far as necessary proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds issued in accordance with law.

Dr. Simpson and Mr. Woodward also laid before the Poard the following summary

N. B.: The balance shown here, $137,869.49, MUST BE paid before the 1958-1960 appropriation of $351,390.00 can be applied.

Dr. Simpson reported that he and Mr. Woodward had been discouraged to learn during a recent conference in Richmond that Governor Almond feels that his authority to release the $351,390 is restricted by the amendment until all other portion of the debt has been paid. Upon reconsidering the matter after the interview, Mr. Woodward had persuaded Chancellor Simpson to the view that the amendment would in no way restrict the Governor's present freedom to permit the payment on the debt of the surplus of June 30, 1957, amounting to $205,346.84 and the surplus at June 30, 1958, estimated at $150,000, prior to July 1, since the Senate amendment to the item from the General Fund in the amount of $351,390, is a part of the 1958-1960 Appropriation Act, which does not become law until July 1, 1958.

Judge Smith and other members of the Board strongly supported Mr. Woodward's interpretation of the law. President Darden and others deplored the waste of taxpayers' funds that would result from the unnecessary issuing of bonds; but the Visitors were of the opinion that bonds must be issued at once if executive approval could not be obtained for what appeared to them to be the legal, economical, and obvious solution of the problem.

The Rector and President Darden were requested to call upon the Governor at the earliest possible date, accompanied if practicable by Judge Smith, the Chairman of the Committee on the College, and press upon him the views of the Board.

President Darden reported that the Chancellor had been invited to attend this summer a conference of college and university administrators to be held at Harvard University.

There were expressions of gratification at the compliment that had been paid to Dr. Simpson by this invitation, and the Board resolved that arrangements be made for his attendance and expenses.

Members of the Board were invited to remain in Fredericksburg for the Alumnae Association's Golden Anniversary dinner in the evening at which President Darden was to speak.

Visitors who had participated on March 14th-15th in the Fiftieth Anniversary Founder's Day exercises, at which Mrs. J. Lindsay Almond was the principal speaker, and at which Governor Almond and President Darden were among the speakers honoring the Hon. C. O'Conor Goolrick, praised the manner in which the anniversary had been observed. It was requested that the official program (containing Mr. Goolrick's modest historical sketch of the College) be preserved with the minutes of this meeting.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that we warmly approve and concur in the tributes voiced on 14 March 1958 by the Governor and Mrs. J. Lindsay Almond, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Mrs. Peter D. Copes, and Miss Evelyn Breeden in observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and in honor of the Founder of the College, the Honorable Charles O'Conor Goolrick.

We gratefully recognize the indispensable work of Mr. Goolrick in bringing the College into being, and his devoted service gladly given over the years to the welfare and growth both of the College and of the University of which it has now become so important a part. We are proud that Mr. Goolrick has so long served this Board, as a fellow-Visitor and later as an unofficial advisor. In the name of the University, which claims his and our united love and service, we hereby record our obligation to him for his effectual and unselfish labors in her cause.

RESOLVED FURTHER that we view with keen satisfaction the state of the College in this, its fiftieth anniversary year. The outstanding work of its present administrators, teachers, students, and alumnae commands our warm approval, and we therefore look forward to the future of the College with high confidence.

It was ordered that copies of this resolution be sent to Mr. Goolrick, to Chancellor Simpson, to Dean Alvey, to Mr. Woodward, to Miss Breedon, President of the Student Government Association, and to Mrs. Copes, President of the Alumnae Association.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

I note that a copy of Mr. Minor's opinion concerning the authority of the Board to reduce the library fee has been sent to you. Based on this opinion, I should like to recommend that the Board be asked this Saturday to reduce the library fee from the present $20.00 to $6.00, and that it be made applicable to all students enrolled. Based on the estimated enrollment next session of 5,000, this will yield $30,000, an amount more than adequate to cover the principal and interest charges.

I should like to recommend that the Board establish a student union fee to defray the major part of the cost of operating Newcomb Hall. I should like to recommend that this fee be $14.00, which would yield $70,000, based on the projected enrollment next session. Thus, the total charge to students would remain the same.

If at all possible, I hope that the Board can consider the matter this Saturday as we should like to make the change in as many catalogues as possible, as well as in other notices which have to be prepared very soon for distribution to entering students.

May I take this opportunity to submit the attached proposal for revising the statement of fees on pages 34 and 35 in the catalogue of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. If these proposals meet with your approval, would you please submit them to the Board for their action if this is necessary.

Furthermore, I would like to establish some uniformity of overall graduate student fees and costs, for students in all departments of the Graduate School, where, because of the diverse subject matters to be studied, there are considerable differences in the proportion of course work to laboratory work and therefore, in the past, different rates of tuition. It seems to me, that a candidate for the Doctor's degree should pay full fees for at least two academic session while he is completing his course program and the reduced fees for one or more academic sessions while he is completing his research, dissertation, and other requirements, of if the student requires more than three or four years because of part-time employment, he should pay the equivalent, i.e., half-time fees for four academic sessions plus the additional necessary sessions of part-time fees.

Finally, I should like to propose that a limited amount of University loan funds be made available to graduate students on a special basis. Mr. Moyer advises me that some of the special loan funds do not seem to be much used. Graduate students are mature, most of them with family responsibilities, and the possession of a Doctor's degree means an increase in their future salaries of up to a $1000 a year. Therefore, it would be a sound financial investment for a graduate student to incur even a substantial debt, in order to devote full-time to his degree program and earn the degree promptly, rather than working part-time and delaying his degree several years. Our regular graduate fellowships will nearly support a single student for the nine months session, but it is useless to offer a stipend of $1000 plus the tuition fee to a man with a wife and one or two small children. There are even some single students who must devote so much time and energy to an outside job for support, that they are unable to earn the very high grades necessary for them to compete successfully for a du Pont Fellowship, so they are caught in a kind of vicious circle of never getting their head sufficiently above water to be able to proceed full-time with their graduate work.

If these considerations seem to you to have some merit, would you be willing to authorize a committee consisting of Mr. Shea, Mr. Vaughan, myself and perhaps others, to submit some definite recommendations for making loans in special cases, up to $1000 or $1200 a year at an interest rate of 3%? With the prospect of additional fellowship programs from both the federal government and charitable foundations, there will not be a large number of cases requiring loans of this magnitude. However, there will be individual cases in which a substantial loan will make a great deal of difference.

I enclose copy of Mr. William Hanckel's letter concerning the above property. Mr. O'Grince and I have examined the property and recommend that the Board of Visitors be requested to authorize the purchase of the property, under the terms set forth in Mr. Hanckel's letter.

This property will be ideal for a faculty housing development. Mr. Hanckel has informed me that Mrs. Bowles has turned down an offer substantially higher than that at which she has offered the property to the University, as she would much prefer its sale to the University.

Confirming our conversation of today, Mrs. Bowles would like to work out an arrangement whereby she would sell the University 39 acres less 9.818 acres. This 9.818 acres she will agree to sell the University when she desires to upon giving the University 90 day notice.

The University would pay Mrs. Bowles $58,364 for the 29.182 acres now and $19,636 for the 9.818 acres with delivery of same.

This offer is made to the University of Virginia and to no one else.

Your special committee on the Paunch issue of The Spectator submits its report herewith. You asked us to determine whether or not this issue of The Spectator discredited the name of the University of Virginia, and if so, whether to a degree sufficient to warrant your bringing the matter before the Student Council.

You have asked for a relative judgment, and we express our judgment in relative terms. Our unanimous opinion is that the Paunch issue does discredit the name of the University of Virginia. The degree of the offense, however, we think should be measured by comparison with the much more serious discredit brought upon the University by contemporaneous issues of The Cavalier Daily.

Measured in this or any other way, however, the objectionable character of Paunch does not seem to us primarily a problem for punitive action. The irresponsibility of Paunch and The Cavalier Daily alike seem to us natural products of the University's present policy of permitting student sovereignty, one can hardly punish students for doing something for which they have never realized they might be held responsible. As to the past, therefore, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council.

As to the future, which is the important aspect of the problem, here, too, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council. We believe that the important question for the future raised by the Paunch magazine is this. Are students at the University of Virginia to continue to enjoy license or are they hereafter to be held responsible to University authority? We believe that the necessarily normative function of any educational institution makes the latter policy preferable here, and moreover we believe that the majority of the people of the Commonwealth favor the latter policy. In any case, since this is a question which the student body cannot ultimately decide, we conclude that there is little reason to take the Paunch problem to the Student Council.

Since you specifically requested that the committee make no positive recommendation for the disposition of this case, we assume that this report completes our work. We ask that you accept the report and discharge the committee.

I send you this note to confirm the views expressed to you in our talk a few days ago about the Spectator. Since Mr. Carlson, the Editor, is not eligible to continue the direction of the magazine, because of academic probation, you will be required to appoint a new editor and approve the staff selected by him. In doing this I wish you to bear in mind that though you act as the Board chosen by the Jefferson Society which owns Spectator, you act also as representatives of the University. In fact as in the public understanding, a magazine published by a student group at the University, using University buildings and under the control of a society of the University with long and distinguished history, has an important sanction from the University. The public may with reason judge the University accordingly. The University's reputation is dear to all of us who serve it and love it. It is not the property of one small group to be dealt with in the uncontrolled judgment of that group, however honest that judgment may be.

I do not share the warm approval of the recent "Paunch" issue expressed by the Student Council. There runs through it, especially in the jokes, coarseness and vulgarity which are utterly out of keeping with the innate good taste which has distinguished the University of Virginia in the past and which we hope will mark it in the future. Moreover, one article - "The Decline and Fall of American Humor" was plagiarized directly from an editorial in The News Leader, but, as the editor of that paper says, "with a butcher's hand."

It is not enough to plead the tendencies of the times as an excuse for commonness. The publication of smutty and, in some instances, utterly revolting jokes and questionable stories cannot be justified as necessary in order to make a student publication sell. This is a form of intellectual prostitution.

Universities are under an enduring obligation to establish and maintain standards that are calculated to lift the intellectual and spiritual level of the societies of which they are a part. To pander to that which is unworthy for the sake of profit or cheap popularity, as does the last issue of Spectator, is to betray the great tradition of which our universities and colleges are at once the inheritors and the protectors.

The editors of Spectator do not act for themselves alone. They act for an old and honorable society which bears the name of the founder of this University, and they act for the University, the founding of which was the crowning achievement of his long and useful life. If students wish, acting only for themselves and over their own names, to compete in the open market place with the salacious and offensive publications found there, they may do so and take their chances with others engaged in such activities, even though I would deeply regret such action. But they should not be permitted to associate with themselves, in order to lend respectability to such ventures, the name of this University.

As I told you when you were good enough to meet with me earlier this week, I shall discuss this matter with the Board at its April meeting and I shall then talk with you further.

Our mutual friend and benefactor, Mrs. Preston Davie, has now given each of our institutions a work of art. To the University in 1956 came a small (25 3/8″h × 19 1/2″w) portrait of Raleigh, and to the Museum in 1957, a larger (45″h × 32 1/2″w) portrait of Burke. The official appraisals by French and Company are. Raleigh $7,500, Burke $8,500. I enclose photographs of each portrait.

You most generously lent the Raleigh portrait to us for our England's World of 1607 exhibition, staged during the spring and summer of 1957 as our contribution to the Jamestown Festival; and since the closing of this display the portrait has been on view in our gallery devoted to English art of the 16th and 17th centuries. Here we have contemporary portraits of persons related historically to Virginia. Sir Thomas Dale, James I and his wife, Anne of Denmark, etc., including a rare painting of William Byrd I, as a boy, when he was in England being "educated".

The Raleigh portrait adds so much to this appropriate and growing group that our Trustees and Staff would like very much to make the arrangement permanent. Also, we already have a portrait by Copley, who painted the Burke. Therefore, we have the following proposal to make to you.

We would like to give you the Burke in return for the Raleigh. Mrs. Davie has been consulted about this and is entirely agreeable. Also, Mr. William B. O'Neal, Curator of your Museum of Fine Arts at the University, has personally inspected both portraits and written a report (copy attached) giving his favorable reactions to our proposal.

We hope that the exchange will also appeal to you, and that it soon can be consummated officially. Here, apparently, we have one of those rare occasions where all concerned will be benefitted.

1\. The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation has recently adopted the following resolution. That there be established "not later than the college year 1959-60 the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships paying $1,500.00 per annum plus tuition, in general along the lines set forth in the Memorandum of July 10, 1957, from Mr. Oron J. Hale, Chairman of the Department of History, to Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University, and contribute up to $5,000.00 per year towards such Fellowships, with the understanding that this Foundation would match the amount put up by the University up to $5,000.00 and would, if Fellows of the desired type in sufficient number can be obtained, put up additional amounts, it being contemplated that the Foundation would in such case contribute at least $15,000.00 per year towards the expense of these Fellowships and quite possibly even more in the future."

2\. It is recommended that this offer be accepted and that the proposed fellowships be described and awarded on the following terms

"From five to ten fellowships with income of not less than $1500 plus tuition fee. These fellowships, provided by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation with a view to perpetuating the spirit and ideals of Thomas Jefferson, are awarded competetively to beginning or advanced graduate students in History and Political Science by the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, upon the recommendation of the respective Departments. Preference will be given to applicants who expect to make a career of college teaching and whose interests focus generally upon the history, ideas and institutions of the Age of Jefferson. The fellowships are renewable upon recommendation of the Department concerned."

3\. These Fellowships, with tuition, would amount to $1730 for resident Virginians and $1960 for non-residents. To finance the program for approximately ten fellows would require $20,000 annually, of which the University would contribute $5,000 and the Foundation $15,000. The proposal that the program be initiated with an equal amount ($5,000) from the Foundation and the University of Virginia, with the Foundation contributing up to $15,000 as suitable candidates are selected, seems entirely reasonable. In the first year probably no more than five awards would be made.

4\. It is recommended that the fellowship proposals of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation be accepted.

1\. The Corcoran Department of History recommends appointment of Dr. Dumas Malone as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History, effective July 1, 1959, and that during the session 1958-1959, when Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University, he be appointed Visiting Professor of History in the University of Virginia. The terms of the appointment are those stated in the "Resolution For The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation," of which paragraph one specifies the grants and salary to be paid to Professor Malone by the Foundation. Salary and Foundation grants will amount to $15,000 annually.

2\. In line with the above-mentioned Resolution it is further recommended that beginning with the session 1959-1960, Professor Malone offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session, and direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar or his work in the Department of History.

3\. If this recommended appointment requires justification, the following points should be emphasized. Professor Malone is one of the most distinguished American historians, he holds earned and honorary degrees from Yale, Northwestern, Dartmouth, Emory and Rochester, he was the editor-in-chief of the Dictionary of American Biography, the greatest achievement of cooperative scholarship ever undertaken in the field of American history, he is engaged in writing and publishing a multi-volumed life of Thomas Jefferson, which will be the definitive biography of the founder of this University, his appointment in the Department of History will greatly advance our graduate program and proposed fellowship program in Jefferson studies, and will make Professor Malone's services available to the Department for two years after the resignation of Professor Abernethy. This latter point is one of considerable importance to the Department owing to Professor Abernethy's impending retirement.

I concur with the Department of History in recommending that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Visiting Professor of History, without salary, for the academic year 1958-59 beginning July 1, 1958. During this time, Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University. It is my understanding that he will receive a supplemental research grant from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.

I transmit to you the recommendation of the Corcoran Department of History, with my concurrence, that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History effective July 1, 1959, for a term of three years, at a twelve month salary of $7,500 per year.

In accordance with the recent "Resolution for the Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation" on this subject, it is understood that the Foundation will pay an additional $7,500 on a twelve months annual basis as research grant to Dr. Malone. The salary for the professorship will also come from the foundation grant.

Professor Malone's duties as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History will be to offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session and to direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar work in the Department of History.

I enclose Mr. Hale's letter which in turn includes some biographical data. If you wish more, I will ask the Department of History to furnish it.

I take pleasure in quoting the resolution unanimously adopted at a meeting of the University of Virginia Law School Foundation October 11, 1957, as follows

"Whereas it has been proposed that there be three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School and that the regular salaries of the occupants of such chairs be supplemented by grants from the Law School Foundation and endowment funds available to the University,

Resolved that, if the Board of Visitors of the University shall provide for annual grants from University endowment funds of $2,000 each to the occupants of three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School, until further action of this Committee the Law School Foundation will make annual grants of the same amount to the occupants of such chairs payable at the same time and in the same manner as the grants provided by the Board of Visitors."

Professional Leave for Graduate Study

1\. The University may pay the faculty member approved for professional leave-of-absence for graduate study or research, an amount not to exceed one-half of the salary for his grade and rank in the faculty salary schedule for the period during which the leave-of-absence is granted.

2\. The recipient of the professional leave allowance shall agree that, after the completion of the approved leave-of-absence for graduate work or research, he will continue to teach at the University of Virginia immediately thereafter for a time at least twice as long as the time of the leave at the prevailing salary schedule, if the full allowance is made

3\. The recipient must sign a promissory note for the amount of the scholarship aid, which note is cancelled and returned to the applicant upon fulfillment of the contractual agreement. If, for any reason, the terms of this agreement can not be met, the recipient must repay the University on a pro rata basis for the specified time that was not worked as contracted.

APPROVED

I note that a copy of Mr. Minor's opinion concerning the authority of the Board to reduce the library fee has been sent to you. Based on this opinion, I should like to recommend that the Board be asked this Saturday to reduce the library fee from the present $20.00 to $6.00, and that it be made applicable to all students enrolled. Based on the estimated enrollment next session of 5,000, this will yield $30,000, an amount more than adequate to cover the principal and interest charges.

I should like to recommend that the Board establish a student union fee to defray the major part of the cost of operating Newcomb Hall. I should like to recommend that this fee be $14.00, which would yield $70,000, based on the projected enrollment next session. Thus, the total charge to students would remain the same.

If at all possible, I hope that the Board can consider the matter this Saturday as we should like to make the change in as many catalogues as possible, as well as in other notices which have to be prepared very soon for distribution to entering students.

May I take this opportunity to submit the attached proposal for revising the statement of fees on pages 34 and 35 in the catalogue of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. If these proposals meet with your approval, would you please submit them to the Board for their action if this is necessary.

Furthermore, I would like to establish some uniformity of overall graduate student fees and costs, for students in all departments of the Graduate School, where, because of the diverse subject matters to be studied, there are considerable differences in the proportion of course work to laboratory work and therefore, in the past, different rates of tuition. It seems to me, that a candidate for the Doctor's degree should pay full fees for at least two academic session while he is completing his course program and the reduced fees for one or more academic sessions while he is completing his research, dissertation, and other requirements, of if the student requires more than three or four years because of part-time employment, he should pay the equivalent, i.e., half-time fees for four academic sessions plus the additional necessary sessions of part-time fees.

Finally, I should like to propose that a limited amount of University loan funds be made available to graduate students on a special basis. Mr. Moyer advises me that some of the special loan funds do not seem to be much used. Graduate students are mature, most of them with family responsibilities, and the possession of a Doctor's degree means an increase in their future salaries of up to a $1000 a year. Therefore, it would be a sound financial investment for a graduate student to incur even a substantial debt, in order to devote full-time to his degree program and earn the degree promptly, rather than working part-time and delaying his degree several years. Our regular graduate fellowships will nearly support a single student for the nine months session, but it is useless to offer a stipend of $1000 plus the tuition fee to a man with a wife and one or two small children. There are even some single students who must devote so much time and energy to an outside job for support, that they are unable to earn the very high grades necessary for them to compete successfully for a du Pont Fellowship, so they are caught in a kind of vicious circle of never getting their head sufficiently above water to be able to proceed full-time with their graduate work.

If these considerations seem to you to have some merit, would you be willing to authorize a committee consisting of Mr. Shea, Mr. Vaughan, myself and perhaps others, to submit some definite recommendations for making loans in special cases, up to $1000 or $1200 a year at an interest rate of 3%? With the prospect of additional fellowship programs from both the federal government and charitable foundations, there will not be a large number of cases requiring loans of this magnitude. However, there will be individual cases in which a substantial loan will make a great deal of difference.

I enclose copy of Mr. William Hanckel's letter concerning the above property. Mr. O'Grince and I have examined the property and recommend that the Board of Visitors be requested to authorize the purchase of the property, under the terms set forth in Mr. Hanckel's letter.

This property will be ideal for a faculty housing development. Mr. Hanckel has informed me that Mrs. Bowles has turned down an offer substantially higher than that at which she has offered the property to the University, as she would much prefer its sale to the University.

Confirming our conversation of today, Mrs. Bowles would like to work out an arrangement whereby she would sell the University 39 acres less 9.818 acres. This 9.818 acres she will agree to sell the University when she desires to upon giving the University 90 day notice.

The University would pay Mrs. Bowles $58,364 for the 29.182 acres now and $19,636 for the 9.818 acres with delivery of same.

This offer is made to the University of Virginia and to no one else.

Your special committee on the Paunch issue of The Spectator submits its report herewith. You asked us to determine whether or not this issue of The Spectator discredited the name of the University of Virginia, and if so, whether to a degree sufficient to warrant your bringing the matter before the Student Council.

You have asked for a relative judgment, and we express our judgment in relative terms. Our unanimous opinion is that the Paunch issue does discredit the name of the University of Virginia. The degree of the offense, however, we think should be measured by comparison with the much more serious discredit brought upon the University by contemporaneous issues of The Cavalier Daily.

Measured in this or any other way, however, the objectionable character of Paunch does not seem to us primarily a problem for punitive action. The irresponsibility of Paunch and The Cavalier Daily alike seem to us natural products of the University's present policy of permitting student sovereignty, one can hardly punish students for doing something for which they have never realized they might be held responsible. As to the past, therefore, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council.

As to the future, which is the important aspect of the problem, here, too, we see little to be gained by taking the problem to the Student Council. We believe that the important question for the future raised by the Paunch magazine is this. Are students at the University of Virginia to continue to enjoy license or are they hereafter to be held responsible to University authority? We believe that the necessarily normative function of any educational institution makes the latter policy preferable here, and moreover we believe that the majority of the people of the Commonwealth favor the latter policy. In any case, since this is a question which the student body cannot ultimately decide, we conclude that there is little reason to take the Paunch problem to the Student Council.

Since you specifically requested that the committee make no positive recommendation for the disposition of this case, we assume that this report completes our work. We ask that you accept the report and discharge the committee.

I send you this note to confirm the views expressed to you in our talk a few days ago about the Spectator. Since Mr. Carlson, the Editor, is not eligible to continue the direction of the magazine, because of academic probation, you will be required to appoint a new editor and approve the staff selected by him. In doing this I wish you to bear in mind that though you act as the Board chosen by the Jefferson Society which owns Spectator, you act also as representatives of the University. In fact as in the public understanding, a magazine published by a student group at the University, using University buildings and under the control of a society of the University with long and distinguished history, has an important sanction from the University. The public may with reason judge the University accordingly. The University's reputation is dear to all of us who serve it and love it. It is not the property of one small group to be dealt with in the uncontrolled judgment of that group, however honest that judgment may be.

I do not share the warm approval of the recent "Paunch" issue expressed by the Student Council. There runs through it, especially in the jokes, coarseness and vulgarity which are utterly out of keeping with the innate good taste which has distinguished the University of Virginia in the past and which we hope will mark it in the future. Moreover, one article - "The Decline and Fall of American Humor" was plagiarized directly from an editorial in The News Leader, but, as the editor of that paper says, "with a butcher's hand."

It is not enough to plead the tendencies of the times as an excuse for commonness. The publication of smutty and, in some instances, utterly revolting jokes and questionable stories cannot be justified as necessary in order to make a student publication sell. This is a form of intellectual prostitution.

Universities are under an enduring obligation to establish and maintain standards that are calculated to lift the intellectual and spiritual level of the societies of which they are a part. To pander to that which is unworthy for the sake of profit or cheap popularity, as does the last issue of Spectator, is to betray the great tradition of which our universities and colleges are at once the inheritors and the protectors.

The editors of Spectator do not act for themselves alone. They act for an old and honorable society which bears the name of the founder of this University, and they act for the University, the founding of which was the crowning achievement of his long and useful life. If students wish, acting only for themselves and over their own names, to compete in the open market place with the salacious and offensive publications found there, they may do so and take their chances with others engaged in such activities, even though I would deeply regret such action. But they should not be permitted to associate with themselves, in order to lend respectability to such ventures, the name of this University.

As I told you when you were good enough to meet with me earlier this week, I shall discuss this matter with the Board at its April meeting and I shall then talk with you further.

Our mutual friend and benefactor, Mrs. Preston Davie, has now given each of our institutions a work of art. To the University in 1956 came a small (25 3/8″h × 19 1/2″w) portrait of Raleigh, and to the Museum in 1957, a larger (45″h × 32 1/2″w) portrait of Burke. The official appraisals by French and Company are. Raleigh $7,500, Burke $8,500. I enclose photographs of each portrait.

You most generously lent the Raleigh portrait to us for our England's World of 1607 exhibition, staged during the spring and summer of 1957 as our contribution to the Jamestown Festival; and since the closing of this display the portrait has been on view in our gallery devoted to English art of the 16th and 17th centuries. Here we have contemporary portraits of persons related historically to Virginia. Sir Thomas Dale, James I and his wife, Anne of Denmark, etc., including a rare painting of William Byrd I, as a boy, when he was in England being "educated".

The Raleigh portrait adds so much to this appropriate and growing group that our Trustees and Staff would like very much to make the arrangement permanent. Also, we already have a portrait by Copley, who painted the Burke. Therefore, we have the following proposal to make to you.

We would like to give you the Burke in return for the Raleigh. Mrs. Davie has been consulted about this and is entirely agreeable. Also, Mr. William B. O'Neal, Curator of your Museum of Fine Arts at the University, has personally inspected both portraits and written a report (copy attached) giving his favorable reactions to our proposal.

We hope that the exchange will also appeal to you, and that it soon can be consummated officially. Here, apparently, we have one of those rare occasions where all concerned will be benefitted.

1\. The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation has recently adopted the following resolution. That there be established "not later than the college year 1959-60 the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Fellowships paying $1,500.00 per annum plus tuition, in general along the lines set forth in the Memorandum of July 10, 1957, from Mr. Oron J. Hale, Chairman of the Department of History, to Mr. Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of the University, and contribute up to $5,000.00 per year towards such Fellowships, with the understanding that this Foundation would match the amount put up by the University up to $5,000.00 and would, if Fellows of the desired type in sufficient number can be obtained, put up additional amounts, it being contemplated that the Foundation would in such case contribute at least $15,000.00 per year towards the expense of these Fellowships and quite possibly even more in the future."

2\. It is recommended that this offer be accepted and that the proposed fellowships be described and awarded on the following terms

"From five to ten fellowships with income of not less than $1500 plus tuition fee. These fellowships, provided by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation with a view to perpetuating the spirit and ideals of Thomas Jefferson, are awarded competetively to beginning or advanced graduate students in History and Political Science by the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, upon the recommendation of the respective Departments. Preference will be given to applicants who expect to make a career of college teaching and whose interests focus generally upon the history, ideas and institutions of the Age of Jefferson. The fellowships are renewable upon recommendation of the Department concerned."

3\. These Fellowships, with tuition, would amount to $1730 for resident Virginians and $1960 for non-residents. To finance the program for approximately ten fellows would require $20,000 annually, of which the University would contribute $5,000 and the Foundation $15,000. The proposal that the program be initiated with an equal amount ($5,000) from the Foundation and the University of Virginia, with the Foundation contributing up to $15,000 as suitable candidates are selected, seems entirely reasonable. In the first year probably no more than five awards would be made.

4\. It is recommended that the fellowship proposals of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation be accepted.

1\. The Corcoran Department of History recommends appointment of Dr. Dumas Malone as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History, effective July 1, 1959, and that during the session 1958-1959, when Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University, he be appointed Visiting Professor of History in the University of Virginia. The terms of the appointment are those stated in the "Resolution For The Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation," of which paragraph one specifies the grants and salary to be paid to Professor Malone by the Foundation. Salary and Foundation grants will amount to $15,000 annually.

2\. In line with the above-mentioned Resolution it is further recommended that beginning with the session 1959-1960, Professor Malone offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session, and direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar or his work in the Department of History.

3\. If this recommended appointment requires justification, the following points should be emphasized. Professor Malone is one of the most distinguished American historians, he holds earned and honorary degrees from Yale, Northwestern, Dartmouth, Emory and Rochester, he was the editor-in-chief of the Dictionary of American Biography, the greatest achievement of cooperative scholarship ever undertaken in the field of American history, he is engaged in writing and publishing a multi-volumed life of Thomas Jefferson, which will be the definitive biography of the founder of this University, his appointment in the Department of History will greatly advance our graduate program and proposed fellowship program in Jefferson studies, and will make Professor Malone's services available to the Department for two years after the resignation of Professor Abernethy. This latter point is one of considerable importance to the Department owing to Professor Abernethy's impending retirement.

I concur with the Department of History in recommending that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Visiting Professor of History, without salary, for the academic year 1958-59 beginning July 1, 1958. During this time, Dr. Malone will be on sabbatical leave from Columbia University. It is my understanding that he will receive a supplemental research grant from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation.

I transmit to you the recommendation of the Corcoran Department of History, with my concurrence, that Dr. Dumas Malone be appointed Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History effective July 1, 1959, for a term of three years, at a twelve month salary of $7,500 per year.

In accordance with the recent "Resolution for the Board of Directors of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation" on this subject, it is understood that the Foundation will pay an additional $7,500 on a twelve months annual basis as research grant to Dr. Malone. The salary for the professorship will also come from the foundation grant.

Professor Malone's duties as Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professor of History will be to offer a seminar in "The Age of Jefferson" during each regular session and to direct such studies and dissertations as may develop from his seminar work in the Department of History.

I enclose Mr. Hale's letter which in turn includes some biographical data. If you wish more, I will ask the Department of History to furnish it.

I take pleasure in quoting the resolution unanimously adopted at a meeting of the University of Virginia Law School Foundation October 11, 1957, as follows

"Whereas it has been proposed that there be three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School and that the regular salaries of the occupants of such chairs be supplemented by grants from the Law School Foundation and endowment funds available to the University,

Resolved that, if the Board of Visitors of the University shall provide for annual grants from University endowment funds of $2,000 each to the occupants of three chairs for distinguished professors in the Law School, until further action of this Committee the Law School Foundation will make annual grants of the same amount to the occupants of such chairs payable at the same time and in the same manner as the grants provided by the Board of Visitors."

Professional Leave for Graduate Study

1\. The University may pay the faculty member approved for professional leave-of-absence for graduate study or research, an amount not to exceed one-half of the salary for his grade and rank in the faculty salary schedule for the period during which the leave-of-absence is granted.

2\. The recipient of the professional leave allowance shall agree that, after the completion of the approved leave-of-absence for graduate work or research, he will continue to teach at the University of Virginia immediately thereafter for a time at least twice as long as the time of the leave at the prevailing salary schedule, if the full allowance is made

3\. The recipient must sign a promissory note for the amount of the scholarship aid, which note is cancelled and returned to the applicant upon fulfillment of the contractual agreement. If, for any reason, the terms of this agreement can not be met, the recipient must repay the University on a pro rata basis for the specified time that was not worked as contracted.

APPROVED
