---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1959'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR HORACE ALFRED GRAY, JR.PROGRESS REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NOMINATION OF PRESIDENTGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONPROMOTIONSRESIGNATIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEAPPOINTMENTASSOCIATION OF GOVERNING BOARDSCHANGE IN TERMS OF ELECTIONNORTHERN VIRGINIA BRANCH COLLEGEBUILDING SITE FOR MR. DUMAS MALONEAPPOINTMENT OF DEAN OF THE UNIVERSITYUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSRIGHT-OF-WAY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGECHANGE IN REGULATIONS GOVERNING DOMICILE OF STUDENTSEXTENSION OF CONTRACT OF FOOTBALL COACHREDUCTION IN PRICE OF FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR CERTAIN PERSONSASSIGNMENT OF RESIDENCE TO THOMAS K. FITZ PATRICKMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRETIREMENTLEAVES OF ABSENCEMELCHERS PROPERTY - BELMONTRIGHT-OF-WAY THROUGH BROMPTON PROPERTYSUMMER SCHOOL FEESNATURAL GAS CONTRACTAPPRAISAL OF PROPERTY LOCATED ON COLLEGE GROUNDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Mr. Newton J. Painter, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

$ 1,127.95

From Mrs. Helen C. Mott, to be added to the Mott Cancer Fund

600.00

From Mr. W. G. Brady, Jr., to the University Hospital

250.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Scholarship Fund

2,400.00

From Dr. J. L. Camp, Jr., to the Hospital, to be added to the Cardio Research Fund (NO PUBLICITY)

100.00

From an anonymous donor, for a scholarship for a foreign student

2,000.00

From Mr. Lewis Einstein, to the Department of Foreign Affairs to be used for the honorarium for the Michalowski Lectures

500.00

From the Charlottesville Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

1,583.80

From Mr. F. D. G. Ribble, to be added to the Lahey Fund

200.00

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

$ 177.50

From Glen Echo Farm, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

100.00

From Mr. Scott M. Fell, to be added to the J. T. Wilson Cancer Research Fund

100.00

From Dr. Francis H. McGovern, to the Alderman Library for the purchase of books

250.00

From Mr. B. F. D. Runk, to the Alderman Library, four books by Gordon Grand valued at

200.00

From Miss Roy Land, to the Alderman Library, copy of Tung Chih Luch volume valued at

175.00

From Mrs. B. Donnelly, to the Alderman Library, for the purchase of books in memory of Dan and Kathryn Norton

500.00

From Mr. Charles N. DAvison, Jr., to the Alderman Library to be added to the fund for the collection of works of Anthony Trollope

100.00

From Mr. T. M. Wrenn, to the Medical School to be added to the Medical Education Fund

100.00

From Mr. E. S. Handy, to be added to the Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund

300.00

From various sources, to the University Hospital to establish the Plastic Surgical Fund

500.00

From the Seven Society, to be added to the Edward R. Stettinius Scholarship Fund

402.64

From Mrs. Theodore S. Cart, to be added to the James T. Wilson Cancer Research Fund

100.00

From the Danville Cancer Association, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund

500.00

From the Bristol Steel and Iron Works, to be added to the Metabolic Research Fund

1,000.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, for the Engineering School

1,000.00

From the General Motors Corporation, for four scholarships for the 1958-59 session

4,600.00

From an anonymous donor, for the purchase of four original paintings from the All-Virginia Exhibition

1,000.00

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, to the Alderman Library and the Bibliographical Society, securities valued at

714.87

From an anonymous donor, to the Peters Rushton Seminar Committee

185.00

From the Scott Trust Fund, to the University

200.00

From Mr. Henry D. Dagit, Jr., to the School of Architecture

100.00

From the Union Carbide Educational Fund, for scholarships in the School of Engineering for the 1958-59 session

1,824.00

From the Union Carbide Educational Fund, to the School of Engineering

400.00

From Mrs. Lawrence A. Sykes, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund

2,500.00

From Mr. John L. Morehead, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund, securities valued at

579.35

From the Virginia Radio Supply Company, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

300.00

From the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Foundation, to the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

7,500.00

From the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, to the Alderman Library for research collections on Thomas Jefferson

5,000.00

From the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, to be added to the graduate fellowship fund

8,000.00

From the American Cancer Society, for research in the Department of Radiology

2,500.00

From Lorena G. Robertson, to be added to the Lahey Fund

100.00

From Dr. Ruth S. Jewett, to the Medical School to be added to the American Medical Education Fund

200.00

From Smith, Kline, and French Laboratories, for a post-doctorate fellowship in Chemistry

$ 8,000.00

From E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for continued research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris of the School of Engineering

20,857.00

From Johns Hopkins University, Applied Physics Laboratory, for continued research under the direction of Dr. O. R. Harris, of the School of Engineering

6,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

20,755.00

From the Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Dr. P. M. Gross, Jr., of the Department of Chemistry

8,915.70

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill

8,089.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. G. C. Pitts

4,047.00

Dr. C. Hoch-Ligeti

14,950.00

Dr. H. S. McGaughey

10,398.00

Dr. G. Goldstein

9,120.00

Bad debts, etc

$15,223.37

Free service to Counties and Cities

67,359.75

TOTAL

$82,583.12

Virginia Student Fees

Non-Virginia Student Fees

Tuition

$ 00.00

$ 85.00

General fees

85.00

85.00

Library

5.00

5.00

Laundry

5.00

5.00

Infirmary

1.50

1.50

Student Activity

5.25

5.25

Board

75.00

75.00

Room

38.25

38.25

Total

$ 215.00

$ 300.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 A. M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr.; and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Bryan, Fenwick, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, Lantor, McWane, Martin, Montague, Pollock, Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Coxe and Paschall. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward of Mary Washington College were present throughout the consideration of College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 13 December 1958, previously distributed, were approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board has heard with deep sorrow of the tragic death on 26 December 1958, of Horace Alfred Gray, Jr., a member of the Board since 1954. Horace Gray's prominent role in the business, civic, and philanthropic life of the Commonwealth has been adequately expressed by his many friends and admirers. We wish here to pay tribute to his deep devotion to the interests and well-being of the University. In his passing the Board has lost a valued colleague and the University, a wise friend and counselor. We shall miss him in our deliberations.

The Board instructed the Secretary to forward copies of this resolution to Mr. Gray's mother and surviving son.

The Rector presented a progress report on behalf of the Committee on Nomination of President. He noted that 161 names had been presented to the Committee and that this number had gradually been reduced to 4 persons who were being seriously considered for nomination. The Rector praised the work of the University Senate Committee in assisting the Visitors Committee in screening the names that had been presented. He concluded his report with the statement that the Committee would probably present its report to the Board at a special meeting within the next two to four weeks.

The President reported the following gifts and grants:

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. George Kriegman as Visiting Lecturer in Psychiatry, as of 1 January 1959. He will come twice a month and receive $50.00 a visit, to be paid out of the Graduate Training Grant in the Department of Psychiatry.

Mr. George Robert Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics for the session of 1959-60, at a salary of $6,000.

Mrs. Ann B. Kayan as Instructor in Nursing, as of 5 January 1959, at a salary of $4,400 a year

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Lecturer in Sociology, part-time, for the session of 1959-60, at Clinch Valley College.

Dr. Calvin Murray Kunin as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, as of 1 June 1959, at a salary of $9,000 - $7,500 to be paid from the Department of Preventive Medicine and the remaining $1,500 from Dr. Jordan's Army grant.

Mr. George Randolph St. John as Instructor in Law, as of September 1959, at a session salary of $4,500.

Dr. Albert J. Paquin, Jr., as Professor of Urology and Chairman of the Department of Urology, as of 1 May 1959, at a salary of $7,500 from the State, supplemented with earnings from the Department up to a possible total of $22,500, plus participation in distribution of any surplus as outlined in the contractual arrangements with the clinical staff.

Dr. Robert Brunish as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry for three years, effective 1 September 1959, at an annual salary of $7,500, to be paid from a National Institute of Health Senior Research Fellowship grant.

Mr. Eugene J. McDonald as Lecturer in Law for the spring semester of the session of 1958-59, at a salary of $750.00.

Dr. Richard H. Lowe, Jr., as Lecturer in Urology, effective 1 January 1959, at no salary from the University.

Dr. William H. Sipe as Lecturer in Urology, effective 1 January 1959, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Frank Trainer as Assistant Professor of Geology for three years at a session salary of $6,900, his tenure to begin with the opening of the second semester of the session of 1959-60.

Mr. Gareth B. Matthews as Assistant Professor of Philosophy for three years, beginning in September 1960, upon the condition that he receive his Doctor's degree before that date, at a session salary of $6,000.

Dr. Alfred J. Bollet as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 June 1959, at a salary of $14,500 per year, $11,500 to come from the Vocational Rehabilitation Grant in Dr. J. H. Allan's name, and the remaining $3,000 from the National Fund for Medical Education

Dr. Audrey K. Brown as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics for three years, as of 1 June 1959, at an annual salary of $5,000 to be paid as follows: $2,000 from the Department of Pediatrics Reserve Fund and $3,000 from the National Fund for Medical Education.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby re-elected

Mr. Edward B. Gordon, Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the second semester of the session of 1958-59.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Instructor in Microbiology, to Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Instructor in Medicine, as of 1 January 1959.

Mr. Edward Andrew Mearns, Jr., Instructor in Law, to Assistant Professor of Law for three years, as of September 1959, at a session salary of $6,000.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Mr. John A. Bell, Assistant Professor of Law, as of the end of the first semester of the session of 1958-59, to take a position with the U. S. Department of Labor in Washington.

Miss Cynthia E. Graves, Instructor in Nursing, as of 31 January 1959.

Mr. Eric R. Wolf, Assistant Professor of Anthropology in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, as of the end of the session of 1958-59.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Miss Zula Mae Baber, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the months of February and March, 1959, to take a class at the University of Minnesota.

Mr. Walter P. Walker, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, from 1 February to 1 September 1959, in order to devote time to graduate studies.

Mr. Arthur B. Moss, Associate Professor of Marketing in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the session of 1959-60

Mr. William D. Hedges, Assistant Professor of Education for the session of 1959-60

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the following appointment was announced by the President

Captain Herbert W. James as Assistant Professor of Air Science, effective in the summer of 1959, at no salary from the University.

The President submitted a letter which Mr. Greear had received proposing that the University of Virginia become a member of the Association of Governing Boards of State Universities and Allied Institutions. It was the consensus of the Board members that the University not become a member of this Association.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Alexandre Kafka be and he is hereby elected Acting Associate Professor of Economics for the session of 1959-60. The resolution of the Board of Visitors of 13 December 1959 appointing Mr. Alexandre Kafka Associate Professor of Economics for a term of three years beginning September 1959 is hereby rescinded.

The President announced that the deed for the 150-acre Farr site, which had been given by the Town of Fairfax, had been turned over to and accepted by the Governor for the location of the Northern Virginia Branch College. The President stated that steps were being taken to record the deed. He also announced his plans to select an individual to handle the building programs both at Clinch Valley College and the Northern Virginia Branch College. A further report on this matter would be submitted to the Board at a later meeting in the spring.

The Secretary was instructed to write a letter to the Mayor of the Town of Fairfax expressing the Board's thanks for the gift of the Farr site

The President presented the petition of Mr. Dumas Malone to be permitted to lease one acre on University property in the Copeley Hill area adjacent to Old Ivy Road on which to construct a residence. He recommended that the petition be granted provided that a suitable lease agreement was negotiated which would protect the interests of the University in the event that Mr. Malone later decided to dispose of the residence.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and the General Counsel be and they are hereby authorized to execute a lease with Mr. Dumas Malone for one acre of University land in the Copeley Hill area adjacent to Old Ivy Road for the purpose of constructing a residence with the provision that the lease contain an arrangement by which the University could buy back the residence should Mr. Malone desire to dispose of it.

The President announced his intention of appointing Mr. B. F. D. Runk as Dean of the University, a position which has been vacant since the retirement of Dean Ivy Lewis. With the appointment of Mr. Runk, there would be transferred to the Office of the Dean of the University all matters relating to student activities now in the Office of the Provost. Under this arrangement, full responsibility for all matters relating to student affairs, including disciplinary cases, would be placed in the hands of the Dean of the University

No objections to the proposed reorganization were voiced by any member of the Board

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 813, 816, 817, 820, 823, and 824, aggregating $82,583.12, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President presented a letter from the Star Mining Company of Coeburn, Virginia, in which the company sought a right-of-way and tipple site on land belonging to Clinch Valley College for use in mining coal on adjacent privately owned land in return for which the company proposed to pay a wheel tax of two cents per ton

After discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to enter into a lease agreement with the Star Mining Company for a right-of-way and tipple site on land belonging to Clinch Valley College in return for the payment by the company of a wheel tax of two cents per ton.

The President called to the attention of the Board the regulation adopted by the Board of Visitors in 1954 concerning the classification of students in fixing domicile for tuition purposes. Professor Charles T. Nash, to whom matters relating to domicile have regularly been referred, had advised the President that the impression had grown in some quarters that a student would be classified as having domicile in Virginia if he registered to vote in a Virginia city or county. Professor Nash proposed that paragraph two of the regulations adopted in 1954 be revoked in order to clarify this matter

After discussion, it was suggested that the recommendation be referred to a special committee for consideration and report. Accordingly, the Rector appointed to the committee, Visitors Montague, Fenwick, and Greear

The President presented a letter from the Provost recommending that the contract of Mr. Richard Voris as Head Football Coach be extended for an additional year until February 1962 with no change in salary. This recommendation had been unanimously approved by the 3-2-2 Athletic Council in the belief that Mr. Voris should have this additional opportunity to prove himself since he came to the University so late that he was unable to take full charge of recruiting until this season.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Athletics Committee of the Board be and it is hereby authorized to consider the extension for one year of the contract as Head Football Coach of Mr. Richard Voris and take final action on the proposal.

The President presented a letter from the Provost recommending that the Department of Athletics be authorized to sell each member of the teaching and administrative staff two season football tickets at one-half the regular price. This proposal had been unanimously approved by the 3-2-2 Athletic Council.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposal that each member of the teaching and administrative staff of the University be permitted to buy two season football tickets at one-half the regular price be and it is hereby referred to the Athletics Committee of the Board for final action

Col. Hartfield of the Buildings and Grounds Committee presented a recommendation from the Committee that the residence on Monroe Hill recently vacated by Professor W. A. Nelson be assigned to Professor Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the residence on Monroe Hill recently vacated by Professor W. A. Nelson be assigned to Professor Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Miss Natalie Eva Nason as Acting Associate Professor of Geography for the second semester only of the 1958-59 session, at a salary of $2,750 for the semester.

Mrs. Cornelia Davidson Oliver as Instructor in Art (part-time) for the second semester of the 1958-59 session, at a salary of $300 per month.

Miss Janet Adelaide Thomas as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation for the second semester of the 1958-59 session, at a salary of $2,200 for the semester

Chancellor Simpson announced to the Board the retirement of Mrs. Frances Ramey Mooney, Associate Professor of Social Science, as of 1 February 1959. Mrs. Mooney has served on the faculty of the College since 1929.

The Visitors expressed their high regard for Mrs. Mooney and their gratitude for her devoted services to the College, and directed the Secretary to record in the permanent minutes of the Board and to convey to Mrs. Mooney their good wishes for many years of happiness in her retirement.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the faculty at Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence with half-salary for the session 1959-60, in accordance with the memorandum regarding Professional Leave of Absence, signed by the Governor on 24 March 1958, and approved by the Board of Visitors on 12 April 1958

Mr. Albert R. Klein, Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, at the University of Denver, for the completion of his doctorate.

Mr. W. J. Pitman, Assistant Professor of Biology, at Ohio State University, for the completion of his doctorate

The Chancellor called the attention of the Board to the previous authorization granted to the College to enter into an agreement with the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts to serve as agent of the Museum for the management of the Gari Melchers Memorial in Fredericksburg until 30 June 1960. The Museum originally requested the College to accept the trusteeship of this property on a permanent basis. It was felt, however, that it would be better for the College to enter into an agreement for a temporary period in order to familiarize itself with the responsibilities involved.

At the time the agreement was completed, it was understood that by the spring of 1959 the College would advise the Museum whether it would be interested in accepting the trusteeship on a permanent basis. This understanding was reached in order that it might be determined whether the budget covering this item for the 1960-1962 biennium would be included in the College budget or continued in the Museum budget.

The Chancellor was of the opinion that it would be to the advantage of both the College and the community for the College to assume permanent trusteeship of the property. It was his understanding that the Museum would petition the courts and request a transfer of the trusteeship to the College on a permanent basis. All expenses occurring as a result of this legal procedure would be borne by the Museum.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to accept the permanent trusteeship of the Gari Melchers Memorial from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and be charged with the responsibility for executing the terms of the will as set forth in an act of the General Assembly, and that the budget item for the operation of the Memorial be set apart in the biennial budget from the operations of the College, subject to the approval of the Governor and the appropriate legal authorization.

The Chancellor reported the request of the Natural Gas Service Corporation that Mary Washington College grant the company a right-of-way for the construction of a natural gas line across that portion of the Brompton property west of U. S. Alternate Route 1, and a portion of the property east of Alternate Route 1. The proposed right-of-way starts in the southwest and runs across the property on the east side of Alternate U. S. Route 1 to a point where it intersects the W. C. Spratt property.

After considerable discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to enter into a letter agreement with the Natural Gas Service Corporation for the construction of a six-inch gas main across the Brompton property on the west side of U. S. Alternate Route 1 and a portion of the property on the east side of U. S. Alternate Route 1 to a point where it intersects the W. C. Spratt property, the accurate location of such line and the terms of agreement to be approved by the College before the letter agreement is signed. This letter agreement shall provide that upon 60 days written notice the Natural Gas Service Corporation, its successors or assigns, shall remove the pipe line and any buildings or structures erected on the premises or any part or portion thereof to another location on College property, satisfactory to Mary Washington College, all at the expense of said corporation.

The Chancellor recalled to the attention of the Board the action taken at its meeting on 13 December 1958 in approving an increase in College fees in the amount of $10 per semester effective in September 1959. The Chancellor requested that the College be permitted to prorate the fees effective September 1959 in arriving at the fees to be charged for the summer session of 1959

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to adjust the student college expenses for the summer session of 1959 as follows

The Chancellor reported that the College had taken no action on the authorization granted by the Board to the College at its meeting on 13 December 1958 to enter into an agreement with the Natural Gas Service Corporation for supplying natural gas as the principal source of fuel for the central heating plant for the College. This delay had occurred in order to permit a survey of the source of the air pollution to be completed.

The Chancellor also reported that a communication addressed to The Rector and Visitors from the State Director of the Budget had been received in which the Director stated his belief that the change was of such a nature as to make it necessary to obtain the approval of the Governor before entering into the contract. After considerable discussion, the Secretary was authorized to address a letter to the State Director of the Budget seeking his assistance in obtaining the citation of the statutory authorization for the position stated in his communication.

The Chancellor stated that in 1958 a small plot of land in the middle of the College grounds, which was owned by the Sunshine Laundry in Fredericksburg, was given to Mary Washington Hospital during a hospital building fund campaign. The property is located on the immediate campus between the College Dining Hall and the Fine Arts Center. At the request of the Mary Washington College Committee, appraisals had been obtained on this property. The Chancellor recommended that the College be authorized to enter into negotiations with Mary Washington Hospital looking toward the purchase of this property

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to negotiate with Mary Washington Hospital for the purchase of approximately one-fourth acre of land located within the College campus between the Fine Arts Center and the Dining Hall, but more specifically described on a map of Rowe's Hill, prepared by Cecil Reid, dated 22 October 1909, which map is a part of the deed of conveyance from Maurice P. Rowe and wife to the State Normal and Industrial School for Women at Fredericksburg, Virginia, recorded 29 October 1909. The best proposal obtainable shall be submitted to a future meeting of the Board of Visitors for its decision

On motion the meeting was then adjourned
