---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1959'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
ELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGE OF STATUSCHANGES OF TITLERESIGNATIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSCHANGE IN TERM OF ELECTIONELECTION OF MR. ROBERTS AS PROFESSOR EMERITUSNEW FACULTY SALARY SCALESalary Scale For The University of Virginia FacultyDEATH OF MR. JAMES HARTASSUMPTION OF OFFICE BY PRESIDENT SHANNONBIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST FOR 1960-1962SIGNING OF DEFENSE CONTRACTSACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEALDERMAN LIBRARY LIFE HISTORIES DOCUMENTATION FUND COMMITTEEEDWARD R. STETTINIUS MEMORIAL CHAIR OF FOREIGN AFFAIRSREFUND OF MEDICAL FEEBILOXI MARSH LAND CORPORATION - SUCCESSION OF VINCENTCHANGE IN TUITION INCREASEACADEMIC COSTUME OF THE RECTORATHLETIC RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTSMADISON HALL LEASEWILSON GEE INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCESASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION III TO PROFESSOR GORDON WHYBURNUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSRESTORATION OF EAST LAWN GARDENS BY GARDEN CLUB OF VIRGINIASTATUS OF LIFE SCIENCE BUILDINGAPPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENTCHILDRENS' REHABILITATION CENTER RIGHT-OF-WAYNORTH APPROACH TO THE ROTUNDAMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSCOLGATE W. DARDEN, JR. AWARDNAMING OF NEW DORMITORYCONVERSION TO GASLETTER FROM MRS. MORGAN COMBSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOANNORTHERN VIRGINIA BRANCH COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONGIFTS AND GRANTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

R. H. Coase, Professor, Economics

$12,600

Pierre E. Conner, Assistant Professor, Mathematics

7,800

Frank W. Finger, Professor, Psychology

11,200

Edwin E. Floyd, Professor, Mathematics

10,500

John C. McCoid, Assistant Professor, Law

7,200

John W. Mitchell, Professor, Physics

11,200

William Taylor, Lecturer, Architecture

7,500,

Chester Bain, Associate Professor, Political Science

$ 500

Weldon Cooper, Professor, Political Science

800.

Scale 1958-1959

New Scale Effective September 1959

Junior Instructor

4,500

4,700

Interval - 18 months

4,750

4,900

Instructor

5,000

5,250

Interval - 18 months

5,250

5,500

5,500

5,750

5,750

6,000

Assistant Professor

6,000

6,600

Interval - 2 years

6,300

6,900

6,600

7,200

6,900

7,500

7,200

7,800

Associate Professor

7,000

7,800

Interval - 2½ years

7,500

8,300

8,000

8,800

8,500

9,300

9,000\* \*Special Approval

9,800\*

9,500\*

Professor

8,800

9,800

Interval - 3 years

9,500

10,500

10,200

11,200

10,900\*

11,900\*

11,600\*

12,600\*

12,500\*

13,500\*

Bad debts, etc.

$ 53,425.32

Free service to Counties and Cities

117,842.06

TOTAL

$171,267.38

From Mrs. Mary R. White, to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund, securities valued at

$ 11,028.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory (NO PUBLICITY)

20,000.00

From the Class of 1959, to establish the Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Book Fund

1,250.00

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, to Alderman Library to complete the purchase of the Trollope Family Collection, securities valued at

2,989.96

From Dr. Otis Marshall, to the Medical School to be added to the Otis Marshall Loan Fund

100.00

From Prof. Quincy Wright, to Alderman Library, 4,483 books and periodicals valued at

700.00

From Colonel John R. Fox, to Alderman Library, 5 books valued at

100.00

From Prof. William B. O'Neal, to Alderman Library, 86 books valued at

200.00

From Mr. Charles E. Norton, II, 73 books and 9 framed French prints, valued at

400.00

From Mrs. Harrison M. Robertson, 2005 books and journals valued at approximately

750.00

From the estate of the late Nina Wylie Morton, to establish the William Wylie Morton Scholarship Fund

5,000.00

From Elsie J. Kelly, to be added to the Psychiatry Endowment Fund

100.00

From Mr. Philip Sporn, to be added to the Wilbur A. Nelson Fund

200.00

From Sundry Persons, to be added to the Wilbur A. Nelson Fund

263.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, for a research grant in Chemistry for the 1959 summer session

1,500.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for the following fellowships for the 1959-1960 session

Dr. T. R. Johns

6,000.00

Dr. Dean Warren

6,000.00

From the estate of the late Elizabeth Woolford, to establish the Elizabeth Woolford Fund for scholarships

$ 25,000.00

From Mrs. A. G. A. Balz, to be added to the Balz Fund

100.00

From the Chemstrand Corporation, for a scholarship in chemistry for the 19591960 session

500.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, to the Department of Foreign Affairs, for the William H. Taylor Fellowship for the 1959-1960 session

1,000.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for the Cooper D. Schmitt Fellowship, for the 1959-1960 session

1,500.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for the W. K. McClure Fellowship, for the 1959-1960 session

1,200.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, for a postgraduate teaching assistantship in chemistry for the 1959-1960 session

3,689.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company, for a postgraduate teaching assistantship in physics for the 1959-1960 session

3,180.00

From the American Cyanamid Company, to the Medical School for research in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

3,000.00

From the United Daughters of the Confederacy, for the Woodrow Wilson Scholarship.

450.00

From Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company, to the McIntire School of Commerce for a scholarship in accounting

500.00

From Westinghouse Educational Foundation, for the Westinghouse Achievement Scholarship in Electrical Engineering for the 1959-1960 session

500.00

From the Radio Corporation of America, an unrestricted gift

200.00

From the Delta Theta Phi Fraternity, for a Law Scholarship

200.00

From Burlington Industries, $1,000 for the Burlington Industries Scholarship and $1,000 to be added to the general funds of the University

2,000.00

From the General Electric Foundation, a contribution equal to those received under the Corporate Alumnus Program

163.50

From Burlington Industries, an unrestricted gift

150.00

From Allstate Foundation, in support of the course in driver education during the 1959 summer session

1,750.00

From U. S. Rubber Company, $2,660 for the U.S. Rubber Company Fellowship for 1959-1960, and $600, an unrestricted gift to the Department of Physics

3,260.00

From U. S. Steel Foundation, Inc. to establish a two-year graduate fellowship

7,200.00

From the Law School Foundation, to be added to the Law School Scholarship Fund

2,000.00

From the Mary Nixon and Buford Scott Trust Fund, to be added to the University scholarship funds

300.00

From the Merck Company Foundation, to be added to the George W. Merck Memorial House Staff Loan Fund

3,000.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, for scholarship grants in the School of Engineering

5,400.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the hospital

3,900.00

From the Community Children's Theatre, for scholarships in the Department of Speech and Drama

1,600.00

From Hazel Becker, to the hospital to be added to the Mary Milligan Memorial Fund

100.00

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

600.00

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, copy of Francis W. Gilmer's "Vindication of the Laws Limiting the Rate of Interest on Loans from the Objections of Jeremy Bentham," valued at

250.00

From Mrs. Jennings C. Wise, to be used toward the purchase of "Morea", securities valued at

4,500.00

From Mr. & Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to the Medical School to be added to the Mulholland Chair of Medicine Fund, securities valued at

3,502.00

From Mr. Edward S. Handy, to be added to the Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund, securities valued at

1,507.00

From the V Club, for the V Club Scholarship

400.00

From the Interfraternity Council, for scholarships for the 1959-1960 session

750.00

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing

$ 8,000.00

From the Fund for Adult Education, in support of a project in liberal education for adults, final payment on a two-year grant

20,000.00

From the Tobacco Industry Research Committee, to the Medical School for a student research fellowship for the 1959 summer session

500.00

From the Civil Air Patrol of Virginia, for scholarships in Aviation Education for the 1959 summer session

1,100.00

From the Parapsychology Foundation, Inc., to the Medical School for research under the direction of Dr. Ian Stevenson

1,500.00

From Parke, Davis and Company, to the Medical School for research in the Department of Preventive Medicine

7,500.00

From Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, for research under the direction of Dr. Alfred Burger

6,500.00

From Sanderson & Porter Company, for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

4,187.00

From Sharples Corporation of Philadelphia, Pa., for research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

5,800.00

From the National Science Foundation, fellowships for graduate teaching assistants for the 1959 summer session

1,799.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

53,486.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Dr. F. W. Banghart, of the Division of Educational Research

62,502.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. R. H. Henneman, Department of Psychology

19,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. E. Feller, School of Medicine

9,571.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. W. S. Jordan, School of Medicine

23,372.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau

299,879.00

Dr. F. L. Hereford

17,575.00

Dr. J. N. Dent

6,143.00

Dr. W. R. Singleton

7,639.00

Dr. L. G. Hepler

7,675.00

Prof. N. Cabrera

92,150.00

Dr. George Cooper, Jr.

10,855.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty

Drs. W. D. Warren & W. H. Muller

15,134.00

Dr. J. B. Littlefield

7,725.00

Dr. Alfred Chanutin

5,991.00

Dr. G. C. Pitts

2,293.00

Dr. W. R. Sandusky

14,490.00

Dr. P. R. Ingram

8,700.00

Dr. R. T. Major

11,500.00

Dr. Alfred Burger

16,790.00

Dr. C. E. Wheeler

14,145.00

Dr. Oscar Swineford

9,031.00

Dr. Q. N. Myrvik

11,063.00

Dr. O. A. Thorup

6,982.00

Dr. C. L. Gemmill

8,280.00

Dr. V. Hollander

26,260.00

Dr. V. Hollander

11,879.00

Dr. R. W. McGilvery

27,715.00

Dr. William Parson

18,883.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 A.M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Coxe, Fenwick, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, Lantor, Martin, Montague, Pollock, Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Bryan, McWane, and Paschall. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward of Mary Washington College were present throughout the consideration of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 13 June 1959, previously distributed, were approved.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Stuart H. Bartle as Instructor in Medicine in the Student Health Section, for one year, as of 1 July 1959, at a salary of $10,688.

Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein as Acting Professor of Biology, for one year, as of 1 February 1960.

Mr. Joseph Hall Bodine, Jr. as Lecturer in Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959, at no salary from the University.

Miss Susan Broadus as Instructor in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, for one year, as of 1 September 1959, at no additional salary.

Mr. David W. Cammack as Part-Time Instructor in Religion, for one year, as of September 1959, at a session salary of $1,500.

Mr. Walter Curtis Connolly as Lecturer in Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959, at no salary from the University.

Dr. Casper Fuchs as Instructor in Neurological Surgery, for one year, as of 1 July 1959, at a salary of $150 per month as a supplement to his stipend from the Hospital.

Mrs. Betty Haller Igel as Instructor in Fundamentals in the School of Nursing, for one year, as of 21 September 1959.

Mr. Reed Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959.

Mr. Matthias Ellsworth Kayhoe as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, as of September 1959.

Dr. Afif Khuri as Instructor in Surgery, as of 1 September 1959 to 1 January 1960, at a monthly salary of $525.

Dr. Joseph Klingler as Visiting Lecturer in Neurology, from 1 September 1959 through 30 November 1959, at no salary from the University.

Mr. James Mills Lane as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, as of September 1959.

Mr. Ralph Addison Lowry as Lecturer in Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959, at no salary from the University.

Miss Suzanne Lowry as Instructor in Psychiatry in the School of Nursing, for one year, as of 1 September 1959, at a salary of $5,170.

Mr. Benjamin P. Mehrling as Instructor in Speech and Drama, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $5,750.

Mr. Murray Sidman as Lecturer in Psychiatry, for one year, as of September 1959, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Walter A. Slowinski as Lecturer in Law, for the first semester of the 1959-1960 session, at a salary of $750.

Mr. Robert W. Smith as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, for one year, as of September 1959.

Mr. Edgar Faulcon Thorne as Visiting Associate Professor of Art, for two years, as of September 1959.

Mrs. Ardienna Joy Wadsworth as Lecturer in Nutrition and Diet Therapy, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary not to exceed $450.

Mr. Edward J. White as Instructor in Electrical Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959.

Dr. Joseph Wolpe as Professor of Psychiatry, effective 1 January 1960, at an annual salary of $20,000, half to be paid from Training Grant Funds of the National Institute of Mental Health and half from departmental earnings.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mr. Raymond Bice as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, as of September 1959.

Mr. Guy Estes as Assistant Professor of Forestry in the Department of Biology and Agriculture, for three years, as of September 1959.

Dr. Marion K. Humphries as Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, as of 1 July 1959.

Mrs. Johanna C. G. Mountain as Instructor in Preventive Medicine, for one year, as of 1 September 1959, with no change in salary.

Mr. H. M. Parker as Acting Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, for one year, as of September 1959. He will receive a salary if called on to lecture.

Mr. Frisby D. Smith as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, as of September 1959.

Mr. Stanley J. Zyzniewski as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $6,900.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointment

Captain Jack E. O'Brien as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, as of 1 October 1959, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Major Louis Paragon, Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, to Associate Professor of Military Science and Tactics, as of September 1959.

Major Herbert W. James, Assistant Professor of Air Science, to Associate Professor of Air Science, as of September 1959.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Mr. Peter R. Goethals, Instructor in Anthropology, for the first semester of the session of 1959-1960, to work on his dissertation at Yale University.

Mr. Charles Micaud, Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the sessions of 1959-1960 and 1960-1961, to act as adviser to the Moroccan government in Rabat.

Mr. Walter Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Associate Professor of Physics, for the session of 1959-1960, to do research at the University of Amsterdam.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of status be and it is hereby made

Miss Margaret C. Sanner, Associate Professor of Nursing, from full-time to half-time, effective 1 January 1960, at a salary of $4,110.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Mr. George R. Hall from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, as of September 1959.

Dr. Andrew D. Hart from Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, as of September 1959.

Mr. David A. Williams from Acting Assistant Professor of History to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, as of September 1959.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Mr. Walter Aron, Assistant Professor of Physics, as of the end of the session of 1958-1959, to accept a position with the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in California.

Dr. Julia Emmett Edmunds, Instructor in Pediatrics, as of 1 July 1959.

Mr. B. Aubrey Huffman, Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, as of the end of the session of 1958-1959, to enter private engineering practice in Norfolk.

Mr. E. O. Malott, Jr., Lecturer in Business Administration, as of 1 September 1959, to join a firm in New York City.

Mr. Joseph K. Roberts, Professor of Geology since 1926, as of 31 August 1959, because of ill health.

Dr. William K. Smith, Jr., Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of 1 July 1959, to go into private practice.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (1) that the following faculty members shall, effective September 1959, receive the salaries indicated

(2) that Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein shall, effective 1 February 1960, receive a salary of $15,500, of which $5,000 shall be paid from the Anonymous Fund for Biology and the balance from the State.

(3) that, while carrying the additional duties now assigned to them, the following faculty members shall, effective September 1959, receive the annual salary supplements indicated

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Board at the 13 June 1959 meeting in prescribing the term of election of Dr. D. Russell Davis as Visiting Professor of Psychiatry for the period 1 July to 31 August 1959, is hereby rescinded, and

RESOLVED, further, that Dr. Davis' term of election be for the period 1 August to 31 August 1959.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Joseph Kent Roberts be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus. Mr. Roberts retired on 31 August 1959 because of ill health after serving as Professor of Geology since 1926.

President Shannon informed the Board that the Governor had approved a new faculty salary scale which became effective in September 1959. The new salary scale, which was ordered to be spread on the minutes, is as follows

Special Approval

President Shannon announced to the Board the death of Mr. James Hart, Professor of Political Science, on 14 September 1959, after a brief illness. Mr. Hart had served on the faculty since 1936.

There were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Hart was held, and the Secretary was directed to record in the permanent minutes the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors for his devoted and valuable services to the University.

President Shannon stated that, as directed by the Board at its meeting on 13 June 1959, he had assumed the duties of President of the University of Virginia on 22 August 1959.

President Shannon presented the University's biennial budget request for 1960-1962 that had been presented to the Governor and the General Assembly. He pointed out that the request had received the prior approval of the Finance Committee and now requested that the Board give its approval. In addition, he informed the Board as to the meetings that had been held with the Governor's Advisory Board on the Budget and the State Council of Higher Education.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University's biennial budget request for 1960-1962, which has heretofore been reviewed by and received the approval of the Finance Committee, is hereby approved.

President Shannon asserted that the requirements of the U. S. Department of Defense required action of the Board in designating by name the President and the Comptroller as the only two officers of the University empowered to sign Department of Defense contracts. In view of his assumption of office, the President stated that it was now necessary to pass a new resolution inserting his name in place of the name of former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that President Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr. and Comptroller Vincent Shea be and they are hereby specifically designated as the only University officers having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of Department of Defense contracts.

The Rector announced that the Executive Committee had acted on two matters in the interim since the meeting of the Board on 13 June 1959. The actions taken were an increase in the salary of Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the Board, and approval of certain expenditures for the renovation of the President's House on Carr's Hill. He asked that these two actions of the Executive Committee be approved.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions of the Executive Committee (1) under the date of 11 July 1959 establishing the salary of Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the Board, at the annual rate of $4,200, effective 1 January 1959, and (2) under the date of 25 August 1959 authorizing the proper officers of the University to proceed immediately (a) to make needed alterations in the President's House on Carr's Hill at a cost not exceeding $35,000, and (b) to purchase for the President's House such furniture and furnishings as may be needed and specified by the President at a cost not exceeding $7,000, are hereby approved.

President Shannon recalled to the attention of the Board the action taken on 14 June 1958 approving the establishment of the "Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund of the University of Virginia." Under the terms of this Trust, the fund was to be administered by a committee composed of the Librarian of the University and two other persons nominated by him and appointed annually by the Board of Visitors. In a letter dated 10 July 1959, Librarian John Cook Wyllie had nominated Miss Louise Savage and Mr. E. S. C. Handy to serve with him on the committee. The President recommended the approval of the Librarian's recommendation.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Librarian of the University, Mr. John Cook Wyllie, in nominating Miss Louise Savage and Mr. E. S. C. Handy to serve with him as a committee to administer the Trust entitled the "Alderman Library Life Histories Documentation Fund of the University of Virginia" and to continue as committee members on an annual appointment basis, as provided in the Indenture set forth in the Minutes of the Board of 14 June 1958, is hereby approved.

The President stated that former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., in a letter to the Rector, Mr. Frank Talbott, Jr., dated 19 August 1959, had proposed the establishment of the Edward R. Stettinius Memorial Chair of Foreign Affairs which was to be supported by certain funds that were to become available. President Shannon announced that he was in thorough accord with Mr. Darden's proposal and recommended its adoption by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Edward R. Stettinius Chair of Foreign Affairs is hereby established in the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs.

President Shannon summarized the contents of a letter addressed to Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller, dated 26 June 1959, in which Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Director of the Department of Student Health, had recommended the abandonment of the practice of total or partial refund of student medical fees to students who withdraw at varying periods following registration. In his letter, Dr. Hart stated that the students who withdrew had received the full value of the medical fee, because of certain health examinations and other services that were provided for them, and that, in his view, the refund of any part of the fee was an unsound practice. The President also noted that this proposal had received the approval of the Comptroller in a letter dated 2 July 1959. He proposed that Dr. Hart's recommendation be approved.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in the future neither all nor any part of the student medical fee shall be refunded.

President Shannon reported that Board action was required because of the University's position as a legatee of the late Hugh E. Vincent of New Orleans, Louisiana. The proposed action, which was incorporated in a resolution which President Shannon presented, had received the prior approval of Judge Wayne Borah, the University's representative in the matter, and Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel of the Board.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a body corporate, as a universal legatee of the late Hugh E. Vincent, acknowledges that in the sale to Biloxi Marsh Lands Corporation by Hugh E. Vincent by act before Felix J. Dreyfous, notary, on February 18, 1936, registered in St. Bernard Parish conveyance book 41 folio 90, there were included, among other things, either by specific description or under the omnibus provisions thereof, all of the rights, title, and interests of the vendor in and with respect to that certain property in St. Bernard Parish, La., fully described in the petition filed July 23, 1959, by Biloxi Marsh Lands Corporation in proceedings no. 6938 in the 25th Judicial District Court for the Parish of St. Bernard, La., entitled "Biloxi Marsh Lands Corporation v. Mrs. Mildred Saffold Vincent et al", and as alleged therein and that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., the President of this board, be and he is hereby authorized to sign and execute, on behalf of this corporation, such instruments and documents as he deems necessary for this purpose.

The President stated that the full amount of the tuition increases authorized by the Board at its meeting on 13 June 1959 was not needed because the new salary plan as finally approved by the Governor did not require for its implementation the total revenue which would have been realized. He reminded the Board that the increase had been set at $50 per year for Virginia students and $100 per year for out-of-state students, except for students in the Graduate School of Business Administration and out-of-state students in the School of Law. President Shannon further asserted that he had authorized a decrease in the tuition charges to $40 per year for Virginia students and $80 per year for out-of-state students. This action became necessary because the Board in its resolution of 13 June 1959 had directed that the entire amount of the additional revenue accruing from the tuition raise be used exclusively for financing the increase in faculty salaries. He recommended that the tuition rates as reduced be approved.

The following resolution was adopted

WHEREAS, the amount of revenue accruing from the tuition increase authorized by the Board at its meeting on 13 June 1959 would have produced more revenue than was needed for the support of the faculty salary plan as finally approved by the Governor,

Now therefore be it resolved by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. in reducing the tuition increases to $40 per year for Virginia students and $80 per year for out-of-state students, except for students in the Graduate School of Business Administration and out-of-state students in the School of Law, is hereby approved.

One of the final actions of former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., the President pointed out, was the appointment of a committee of the faculty to design an official academic costume for the Rector. In order that the Rector's academic costume, as designed by the committee might be officially prescribed, President Shannon recommended action by the Board to accomplish this end.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the academic costume of the Rector shall be as herein described: The bonnet shall be of navy blue faille with soft crown and stiff oval brim measuring approximately fifteen inches from front to rear. The gown shall be of navy blue faille cut full in regular doctoral gown pattern with a yoke of the same material, the bell sleeves shall be of orange velvet and the front trim shall also be of orange velvet in five-inch width bands extending from the base of the front yoke down to the hem of the gown.

Mr. Fenwick, Chairman of the Athletics Committee, laid before the Board, copies of "Intercollegiate Athletics Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the Period July 1, 1958 to June 30, 1959." Summarizing the contents of the Report, Mr. Fenwick invited inspection by the Visitors and requested the Secretary to submit the Report in triplicate to the Director of the Budget and to hold one copy in the files of the Board.

The Rector presented for consideration the proposed 50-year lease between the YMCA and the University covering Madison Hall, owned by the YMCA, which was discussed at the 13 June 1959 meeting of the Board. A detailed report with respect to the suggested lease, dated 23 September 1959, prepared by Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller, had been sent to all the members. A further discussion was had particularly with respect to the acceleration clause, based upon the consumer price index desired by the YMCA, as set forth fully in the Comptroller's report. That report points out that changes had been made in the lease first discussed in that the lease now contains a provision giving to the University the privilege of cancelling the lease upon the expiration of any five-year rental period by giving 90 days' written notice to the YMCA. While this provision may not furnish full protection to the University in the contemplated expenditure of considerable sums in the repairing of Madison Hall, it was further noted that the YMCA Board spends all of its funds on a program for the students of the University, so that whatever rental is paid to the YMCA will be used in the interests of this institution.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and the Secretary be and they are hereby authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the University, a lease with the YMCA Board for Madison Hall in the form prepared by Mr. Hardy Dillard of the Law Faculty, and approved by counsel for the University.

As a mark of appreciation for the long service to the University of Professor Emeritus Wilson Gee, President Shannon reported that former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr. on 13 August 1959 had changed the name of the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences to the Wilson Gee Institute for Research in the Social Sciences.

Mr. Coxe, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that Professor Gordon Whyburn of the Department of Mathematics had accepted the Committee's offer of Pavilion III as a residence.

The customary resolution for the charging off of certain uncollectible accounts at the University Hospital was submitted by President Shannon. A discussion ensued as to the uncollectible hospital accounts with special emphasis on debts. It was decided that the Comptroller and the Hospital Director be requested to prepare and present to the Board at its meeting on 12 December 1959 a complete report on the problem of bad debts at the Hospital.

Following this discussion, the following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 852, 855, 856, 858, 861, 862, 865, 868, 869, 871, 872, 875, and 876, aggregating $171,267.38 as recommended by it, consisting of the following

President Shannon read to the Board a letter he had received from Mrs. C. James Andrews, Chairman of the Restoration Committee of the Garden Club of Virginia under date of 24 September 1959, in which the Committee stated its interest in cooperating with the University in the restoration of the East Lawn gardens. He stated that arrangements were being made for a meeting of the Restoration Committee of the Garden Club of Virginia with the University Committee on the Restoration of East Lawn Gardens and that such a meeting would probably be held before the next meeting of the Board in December. Accordingly, he asked that the Board authorize him to enter into negotiations with the Garden Club of Virginia for the restoration.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. be and he is hereby authorized to enter into negotiations with the Garden Club of Virginia for the restoration of the East Lawn gardens.

President Shannon reported briefly on the status of the construction of the Life Science Building. He asserted that detailed working plans were now being prepared. He also displayed to the Board an architectural design of the building and reported on certain changes that were being proposed by the Art Commission. These changes related to certain outside rearrangements but no fundamental alterations were being requested.

The President reported that, as of 22 August 1959, he had appointed Mr. Weldon Cooper on a part-time basis as Assistant to the President.

President Shannon stated that prior to the construction of the present building operated as the Children's Rehabilitation Center, the property was subject to an easement for road purposes 18′ in width for the benefit of lands lying to the West thereof, that at the time such construction was in process an oral understanding had been entered into between the interested parties shifting such easement so that it ran along the western boundary of the property instead of across the middle thereof and increasing its width from 18′ to 27′, that it was now deemed desirable to express such understanding in the terms of a formal grant. In this connection the President submitted to the Board for consideration draft of a proposed deed of easement, which had been approved by the University Special Counsel, whereby, in consideration of the extinguishment of the existing 18′ easement over said land, the University granted as appurtenant to the lands lying to the west thereof, a new easement 27′ in width running along the westerly boundary of the University's land.

After consideration, upon motion duly made, seconded, and carried, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board deeming such action beneficial to the property of the University, that the President be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to execute on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the deed of easement as submitted to this meeting and that the Secretary be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to affix its corporate seal thereto and to attest the same, and to deliver said deed of easement to the grantees named therein.

President Shannon stated that the changes authorized by the Board for the North approach to the Rotunda had been completed and invited the Board members to inspect the site personally if possible. He also reported that former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr. had expressed his delight on seeing the completed project at the time of the Inauguration on the previous day.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Mrs. D. J. Kilby as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $5,000.

Mrs. George E. Luntz as Visiting Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, Part-Time, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $4,400.

Mr. A. Ray Merchent as Registrar and Instructor in Education, for twelve months, as of September 1959, at a salary of $5,760.

Mrs. George Brown Oliver as Instructor in Art, Part-Time, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $3,000.

Miss Josefa Rivas-Crespo as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $4,400.

Mr. Robert Harrison Shaw as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, Part-Time, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $3,000.

Chancellor Simpson stated that former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., had indicated an interest in establishing an annual award for the outstanding academic student at Mary Washington College. Mr. Darden, the Chancellor reported, had given permission for the award to bear his name. In addition to the monetary award, estimated to be no less than $100 annually, the student would also be presented with a medallion to be paid for by the College. The Chancellor reported that a design for the medallion would be presented for review by the Board if the award was approved.

After expressions of gratification for the generosity of Mr. Darden, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to negotiate with former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr. for the establishment of the Colgate W. Darden, Jr. Award, and to prepare a design for a medallion to be presented for approval.

Mr. Greear, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported on behalf of the Committee that the new dormitory which had been completed should now be named. During its discussions, the Committee considered the question as to whether buildings either at Charlottesville or elsewhere should be named after living persons. It was brought out in the discussion that the custom at the University had been for no buildings to be named for living persons, but that one building at Mary Washington College had been named for a person who was living at the time and is still living.

After considerable discussion, the Board decided to defer the matter of naming the new dormitory until a later date.

The Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Greear, stated that the College had received a letter dated 1 October 1959, from Mr. William J. Gibson, of the firm of Coleman and Gibson in Fredericksburg, emphasizing the embarrassment that had been caused by the failure of the College to fulfill its commitments to the Natural Gas Service Company for the partial conversion from coal to gas for heating purposes as authorized by the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 13 December 1958. Mr. Gibson pointed out that the College had been counted on as the principal single customer of the gas company, that the project was approved by the State Corporation Commission on the strength of a letter from the College dated 17 December 1958, reporting the Board's actions, and that the College's participation had been a primary factor in obtaining the financing of the project by a New York banking firm. Mr. Greear asserted that the contract for the conversion had not been entered into because of a ruling by the Director of the Budget that the project was of such a magnitude that it required the prior approval of the Governor.

After considerable discussion of both the specific problem at Mary Washington College and the relationships between the State Budget Office and the Board of Visitors in the government of the University, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Rector is hereby directed to appoint a special committee of the Board to confer with the Governor concerning the relationships between the State Budget Office and the Board of Visitors in the government of the University, including the appropriate functions of the Budget Office and the Board respectively with regard to the proposed contract with the Natural Gas Service Company.

President Shannon read a letter from Mrs. Morgan Combs, addressed to former President Colgate W. Darden, Jr. under the date of 18 July 1959, expressing her gratification for the naming of the new science building at Mary Washington College as the Morgan Combs Science Hall and asking Mr. Darden to express her deep appreciation to the Board.

President Shannon stated that the U. S. Housing and Home Finance Agency prior to its approval of the faculty housing bonds for Clinch Valley College required that certain parietal rules be established applicable to faculty housing. He submitted a resolution concerning this matter, which had been approved by Mr. C. Venable Minor, and recommended its adoption.

The Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS, under Section 39 of the "Terms and Conditions" constituting part of the Loan Agreement designated Project No. Va. 44-CH-9(D) concerning Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds, the United States of America, a party to that Agreement, requires that certain parietal rules be established by the University of Virginia which are applicable to faculty housing located at the Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, at Wise, Virginia. Now therefore be it Resolved by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

1\. That during the life of said loan, the University of Virginia agrees that rental rates in the faculty housing project described in Section 4 of said Loan Agreement shall not be less than

(a) $85.00 per month for each of the six single family dwellings described in said Section 4,

(b) $75.00 per month for each of the two bedroom apartments in the four unit apartment building described in said Section 4,

(c) $65.00 per month for each of the one bedroom apartments in the four unit apartment building described in said Section 4

2\. That preference be given to the filling of any vacancies in the dwellings and apartments aforesaid over any other vacancies in housing that are, or in the future may be, operated by the University of Virginia for its faculty members in the Clinch Valley area,

3\. That any and all leases of the dwellings and apartments aforesaid shall be subject to the approval of the Comptroller of the University of Virginia; and

4\. That the terms and conditions for the lease of the dwellings and apartments aforesaid, as set forth in the sample lease attached, are hereby confirmed and ratified.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Northern Virginia Branch College

Mrs. Yveline Kerr Bretschneider as Instructor in Romance Languages, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $4,450.

Mr. Alfred Copeland as Lecturer, for the first semester of the 1959-1960 session, at a salary of $1,625.

Mrs. Everett F. Davis as Lecturer in Biology, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $6,500.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Northern Virginia Branch College

Mr. Hyman I. Feinstein as Lecturer in Chemistry, for one year, as of September 1959, at a salary of $6,500.

The President reported the following gifts and grants

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
