---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1962'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1962) June 1, 1962
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 1, 1962

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

25 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

COMMITTEES FOR 1962-1963ELECTIONSELECTION OF EDWARD R. STETTINIUS PROFESSOR OF FOREIGN AFFAIRSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCEEXTENSION OF LEAVE FOR MISS MARGARET G. TYSONCHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRETIREMENTSELECTION OF MESSRS. HENCH, MacCONOCHIE, MULHOLLAND, OGLESBY, AND WOOD AS PROFESSORS EMERITIRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSBENJAMIN ARMISTEAD SHEPHERD PROFESSORSHIP OF PEDIATRICSRESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION FOR GIFT TO DEPARTMENT OF PEDIATRICSJOHN W. MALLET PROFESSORSHIP OF CHEMISTRYRESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION FOR GIFT TO DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRYADOPTION OF 1962-1963 UNIVERSITY BUDGETCHANGES IN THE ORGANIZATION OF ARTS AND SCIENCESMcGREGOR LIBRARY ADVISORY COMMITTEEPURCHASE OF LAND ON JEFFERSON PARK AVENUESPACE RADIATION EFFECTS LABORATORYSELECTION OF ARCHITECT FOR PROPOSED ADDITION TO ALDERMAN LIBRARY BUILDINGREPORT ON ADMISSIONSDEGREE OF BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING SCIENCEEXTENSION OF DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE PROGRAM IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERINGSCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCEREPORT OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEEREPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FALLOUT PROTECTIONUNIVERSITY AIRPORT CONTRACTREPORT OF UNIVERSITY LONG-RANGE PLANNING COMMITTEEWILLIAM JACKSON HUMPHREYS TRUSTTHORNTON PROPERTY ON UNIVERSITY CIRCLEINCREASE IN FEE SCHEDULE FOR SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESINCREASE IN STUDENT ATHLETIC FEERESOLUTION AUTHORIZING DORMITORY REVENUE BONDSARTICLE IDefinitionsARTICLE II.Authorization, Form, Execution and Delivery of Bonds.United States of America State of VirginiaTHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIADORMITORY REVENUE BOND (SERIES 1962)FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARSARTICLE III.Custody and Application of Proceeds of BondsARTICLE IVRevenues and FundsARTICLE V.Investment of Funds.ARTICLE VI.Particular Covenants.ARTICLE VII.Remedies.ARTICLE VIII.Miscellaneous Provisions.RESOLUTION AWARDING DORMITORY REVENUE BONDSGIFTS AND GRANTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONADOPTION OF 1962-1963 COLLEGE BUDGETREICHEL PROPERTY—WAVIER OR MODIFICATION OF RESTRICTED COVENANTCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSFORCE SEWER MAIN EASEMENT GRANTED TO CITY OF FAIRFAXPATRICK-HENRY BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance Committee

Mr. Blanton, Chairman

Mr. Camp

Mr. Montague

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Lewis, Chairman

Dr. Kendig

Mrs. Lantor

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Rogers

Athletics Committee

Mr. Fenwick, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. Faulconer

Mr. Lewis

Mr. Pollock

Medical Committee

Dr. Martin, Chairman

Dr. Kendig

Mr. Walker

Buildings & Grounds Committee

Mr. Montague, Chairman

Mr. Camp

Mr. Faulconer

Mr. Hartfield\]

Year of Maturity

Principal Amount

1964

$ 80,000

1965

65,000

1966

65,000

1967

70,000

1968

70,000

1969

75,000

1970

75,000

1971

80,000

1972

80,000

1973

85,000

1974

85,000

1975

90,000

1976

95,000

1977

95,000

1978

100,000

1979

$105,000

1980

105,000

1981

110,000

1982

115,000

1983

120,000

1984

120,000

1985

125,000

1986

130,000

1987

135,000

1988

140,000

1989

145,000

1990

150,000

1991

155,000

1992

135,000

From Mrs. Sallie Shepherd Perkins, to establish the Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Fund to be used for the maintenance of the Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Chair of Pediatrics and for medical research, securities valued at

$235,000

From Mr. John Allan Love, to be added to the John Allan Love Trust Fund

14,366

From Mr. Linton R. Massey, to Alderman Library, books and manuscripts of William Faulkner materials, valued at

8,611

From Mr. Bernard M. Meeks, to Alderman Library, 88 original cartoons valued at

3,297

From Mrs. Ullin Leavell, to be added to the Ullin Leavell Scholarship Fund, securities valued at

1,032

From estate of Mr. Charles B. Baker, to the Children's Rehabilitation Center, equipment valued at

1,000

From Seven Society, to the University to be added to the Alderman Library Addition Fund

77.77

From Mrs. Virginia M. Harrison, to the hospital to be added to the Harrison M. Robertson Memorial Fund

738

From Mrs. Helen C. Mott, to the hospital to be added to the Mott Cancer Fund

500

From Miss Marguerite Kumm and Mr. Harold Kumm, to the School of Medicine to establish the Sarah Louise Kienholz Kumm Memorial Loan Fund $200; to establish the Ferdinand G. Kumm Memorial Loan Fund $200

400

From Mr. John Puryear, for the hospital

$ 300

From Mr. Eugene R. Black, to be added to the Alderman Library Addition Fund

250

From Mr. Douglas H. Gordon, to Alderman Library, copy of Hulme's English Constitution, London, 1771, valued at

175

From Law Wives' Club, to be added to the Evelyn Fanny Saunders Memorial Loan Fund

265

From University Hospital Auxiliary, to be added to the Indigent Drug Fund

500

From Alumni Association, for athletic grants-in-aid

15,000

From the 1961 Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following:

Faculty Salaries

4,155

Alderman Library

1,422

Summer Scholarships

2,500

Mulholland Chair of Internal Medicine

3,444

Allergy Clinic

3,740

Medical School

9,375

Virginia Quarterly Review

50

Manly Aylor Scholarship Fund

100

University Chapel

25

Snavely Scholarship Fund

1,133

Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

100

1935 Medical Class Fund

1,932

1938 Medical Class Fund

1,375

1939 Medical Class Fund

1,140

1945 Medical Class Fund

785

1930 Class Scholarship Fund

1,510

1937 Class Scholarship Fund

1,790

Sundry Gifts

462

University YMCA

490

George Mason College

70

Clinch Valley College

12

From Chemstrand Corporation, to the Department of Chemistry, scholarship $500; grant-in-aid $500

1,000

From Radio Corporation of America, an unrestricted gift

100

From Old Dominion Foundation, to Alderman Library, books valued at

2,000

From National Merit Scholarship Corporation, to be added to the University scholarship funds

200

From Shell Oil Corporation, to be added to the Shell Merit Scholarship Fund

100

From Alumni Board of Trustees, for the following:

Barksdale Chemistry Library

375

Barksdale Engineering Library

375

Jones Engineering Library

75

Cameron Scholarship

150

Epes Scholarship

125

Roper Scholarship

125

Selden Scholarship

250

Sarah Seward Scholarship

125

Simon Seward Scholarship

125

Watts Scholarship

125

Summer Scholarships

$ 2,500

Publication of University Topics

3,500

From American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, to the Medical School

12,001

From Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Study, an unrestricted gift

400

From Burlington Industries Foundation, an unrestricted gift

340

From General Electric Foundation, an unrestricted gift

527

From The Edmondson Foundation, to the Medical School to be added to the Robert Mercer Payne Scholarship Fund

500

From United Cerebral Palsy of Virginia, Inc., to the Children's Rehabilitation Center for the operation of the "Home Service Program"

2,601

From Chardon Fabrics, Inc., to be added to the Medical scholarship funds

350

From Monsanto Chemical Company, for a scholarship in the Engineering School

500

From National Fund for Medical Education, in support of the Medical School

31,060

From Giles County United Fund, to the hospital for research in polio and crippling diseases $1,000; for cardiovascular research $825; for cancer research $225

2,050

From National Merit Scholarship Corporation, an unrestricted gift

340

From Muscular Dystrophy Association, to the hospital for the operation of the Muscular Dystrophy Clinic

6,774

From Merck and Company, for research under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

1,200

From Conditioned Reflex Institute, Inc., in support of a symposium to be conducted by Dr. Joseph Wolpe, Department of Psychiatry

1,500

From E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for research under the direction of Mr. L. B. Johnson, Jr., Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

30,000

From Regulus, Inc., for research under the direction of Mr. E. S. McVey, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

30,000

From Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, a research fellowship for Prof. Edwin E. Floyd, Department of Mathematics, for the period 9/16/62 - 9/15/64

21,275

From Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, a research fellowship for Prof. P. E. Conner, Department of Mathematics, for the period 9/16/62 - 9/15/64

10,350

From American Cancer Society, for research under the direction of Dr. V. Hollander, School of Medicine

3,880

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, support of participation of Dr. A. C. Lapsley in 1962 AEC-ASEE Summer Institute at the University of Illinois

847

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for the purchase of equipment for the Nuclear Reactor

6,133

From U. S. Rubber Company, for research under the direction of Mr. R. N. Hubbard, Engineering School

600

From National Aeronautical and Space Agency, for research under the direction of Mr. O. R. Harris, Engineering School

6,222

From Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, for research in Parapsychology under the direction of Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

12,000

From National Science Foundation, research participation for college teachers under the direction of Dr. Bart van't Riet, Department of Chemistry, for the summer 1962

13,410

From U. S. Public Health Service, a fellowship supply grant for support of Dr. W. A. Scoggin, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

500

From U. S. Public Health Service, a fellowship supply grant for support of Mr. R. H. White, Department of Biology

500

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Development Award for Dr. J. I. Kitay, Department of Internal Medicine

14,962

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Award for Dr. J. F. Dammann, Jr., Department of Surgery

27,311

From U. S. Army, for research under the direction of Prof. M. G. Foster, Department of Electrical Engineering

9,000

From National Association for Mental Health, for research under the direction of Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

6,000

From U. S. Public Health Service, training grants under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

$ 55,080

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Department of Pharmacology

36,964

Dr. J. I. Kitay, Department of Internal Medicine

32,347

Dr. A. J. Bollet, Department of Preventive Medicine

25,164

Dr. G. S. Fitz-Hugh, Department of Otolaryngology

12,000

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

15,535

Dr. O. Swineford, Jr., Department of Internal Medicine

24,300

Dr. A. E. Feller, Department of Microbiology

35,000

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

85,907

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

8,100

Dr. C. H. Fox, Department of Pathology

10,770

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

8,380

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. D. W. Kupke, Department of Biochemistry

12,344

Mr. D. R. H. Gourley, Department of Pharmacology

4,175

Dr. Guy Hollifield, Department of Internal Medicine

40,876

Dr. R. F. Shaw, Department of Preventive Medicine

15,537

Dr. O. R. Rodig, Department of Chemistry

9,958

Drs. J. F. Dammann & S. H. Bartle, Department of Surgery

145,467

Dr. C. M. Kunin, Department of Preventive Medicine

5,060

Dr. P. E. Weary, Department of Dermatology

9,775

Drs. R. H. Henneman & W. F. Battig, Department of Psychology

12,194

Dr. J. W. Beams, Department of Physics

6,210

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: Rector Albert V. Bryan; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Camp, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hartfield, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Martin, Montague, Pollock, Rogers, and Walker. Absent: Visitors Johnson and Wilkerson. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the discussion of Mary Washington College matters. Comptroller Vincent Shea was present during the discussions of the 1962-1963 University budget and the authorization and awarding of the Dormitory Revenue Bonds.

The minutes of the meeting of 14 April 1962, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1963. Upon motion, duly seconded, the following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Mr. Bryan, Chairman; Mr. Berkeley; and Mr. Rogers.

The Rector announced that in the very near future he would complete his appointments to the standing committees for 1962-1963 and would request the Secretary to include the list of committees in the minutes for this meeting.

\[The committee assignments for 1962-1963 as subsequently made by the Rector are as follows:

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Edwin W. Arnold as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,900

Mr. Ralph C. Bralley as Instructor in Speech Correction and Audiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,300

Mr. Douglas T. Day, III as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Ernst S. Dick as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Richard T. Eppink as Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Frank E. Flora as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,000

Mr. Richard D. Gilardi as Instructor in Law, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $3,150.

Mr. Eugene N. Lane as Visiting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Richard P. Lawlor as Instructor in Law, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $3,150

Mr. Bertram F. Levin as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $9,100.

Mr. Charles R. McDowell as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,500

Mr. Robert E. Nelson as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Miss Priscilla F. Richardson as Instructor in Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,300

Mr. Muvaffak Seyhan as Visiting Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1962, at no salary from the State

Miss Herta H. E. Spatzker as Instructor in Nursing, for the period 1 June 1962 to 3 September 1962, at the annual rate of $5,720

Mr. Robert L. Strong, Jr. as Lecturer in Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,600

Mr. Knox Turnbull as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $14,200

Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $9,100

Mr. Howard D. Winters as Instructor in Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,600

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Rowland A Egger be and he is hereby elected Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Foreign Affairs for which he will be paid the sum of $2,500 per year, in addition to his regular salary, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Charles Whitcher as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, which was approved by the Board at its meeting on 14 February 1962, be and it is hereby cancelled

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mr. James D. Beaber as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,500.

Mr. Osvaldo Chinchon as Junior Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600

Mr. Henry E. Garrett as Visiting Professor of Educational Psychology, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,850

Mr. George M. Gerken as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. John L. Ruseau as Instructor in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,000

Mr. A. W. Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Mr. Alan P. Batson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Julian R. Beckwith, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. D. Scott Birney, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Francis J. Brooke, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Audrey K. Brown, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. J. David Deck, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Robert T. Denomme, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of City Planning in the School of Architecture, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Gary S. Dunbar, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geography, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Alfred Fernbach, Associate Professor, to Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Assistant Professor of Medicine, to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pharmacology, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. John L. Guerrant, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Jack D. Hain, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Walter L. Heilbronner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. George W. Holmes, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Ying-tang Hsu, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. James B. Littlefield, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Preston B. Lowrance, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Harry S. McGauhey, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Associate Professor, to Professor of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. William B. O'Neal, Associate Professor, to Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Valfrids Osvalds, Acting Associate Professor, to Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Robert L. Ramey, Associate Professor, to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. William A. Scoggin, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Clifford M. Siegel, Associate Professor, to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Virgil S. Ward, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Robert S. Young, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geology, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Mr. Gary S. Dunbar, Associate Professor of Geography, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to study under a Fulbright Senior Scholarship at the University of Dacca in East Pakistan

Mr. N. L. Enrick, Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to complete his doctoral thesis

Mr. Edward B. Gordon, Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, because of ill health

Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., Associate Professor of Law, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to accept a Fulbright Award to lecture at the University of Messina, Italy

Mr. Harold A. O'Hern, Jr., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to make a trip to Japan, Southeast Asia, India, the Middle East, and Europe

Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Associate Professor of Microbiology, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to accept a special fellowship from the National Institutes of Health for study at the National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases in Bethesda, Maryland

The President reminded the Board of its action at the meeting on 14 April 1962 in extending the leave of absence for Miss Margaret G. Tyson, Dean of the School of Nursing. He noted that inadvertently the leave of absence granted Miss Tyson at that time had been without pay when it should have been with half-pay.

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by the Board at its meeting on 14 April 1962 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 14 April 1962, p. 314) relating to the extension of a leave of absence for Miss Margaret G. Tyson, Dean of the School of Nursing, be and it is hereby amended and re-enacted as follows

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence for Miss Margaret G. Tyson, Dean of the School of Nursing, be and it is hereby extended for the period 1 July 1962 through 31 August 1962, with half-pay, to complete the requirements for the doctoral degree at Columbia University

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Mr. Albert Altman, from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, from Instructor in Internal Medicine, to Instructor in Internal Medicine and in Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., from Professor of Mathematics, to University Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. N. L. Enrick, from Associate Professor of Business Administration, to Lecturer in Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, without pay

Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, from Visiting Professor of Business Administration, to Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $14,200

Mr. George W. Henderson, from Lecturer in Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,600

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated

Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration, at a salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Elton M. Alrich, Associate Professor of Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962.

Dr. Julian R. Beckwith, Professor of Internal Medicine, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Alumni Professor of English, at a salary of $2,800, in addition to his regular salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Associate Professor of English, at a salary of $9,600 plus 20 per cent for summer duties and $1,000 for service as Dean, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Claude C. Coleman, Associate Professor of Surgery, at a salary not to exceed $28,500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Weldon Cooper, Professor of Political Science, at a salary of $13,400 plus 20 per cent for summer duties, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. William E. Craddock, Associate Professor of Radiology, at a total salary not to exceed $25,000, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. E. Cato Drash, Professor of Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., University Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Rowland A. Egger, Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Foreign Affairs, at a salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Charles J. Frankel, Associate Professor of Orthopedics, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962.

Dr. Richard W. Garnett, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a salary of $15,000 plus $2,250 for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. John G. Kroll, Associate Professor of Radiology, at a total salary not to exceed $26,000, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Byrd S. Leavell, Professor of Internal Medicine, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Juan D. Martinez-Galindo, Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $30,000, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. George R. Minor, Associate Professor of Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $26,500, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. C. Bruce Morton, Professor of Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $30,000, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. John M. Nokes, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Miss Catherine M. Russell, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at a salary of $11,200, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. William R. Sandusky, Professor of Surgery, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. James R. Schlesinger, Associate Professor of Economics, at a salary of $10,100, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Edward R. Slaughter, Associate Professor of Physical Education, at a salary of $10,600, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Oscar Swineford, Professor of Internal Medicine, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. W. W. Waddell, Jr., Professor of Pediatrics, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Paul B. Walter, Assistant Professor of Education, at a salary of $8,200, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. David A. Williams, Assistant Professor of History, at a salary of $7,900, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. J. Edwin Wood, Professor of Internal Medicine, at a total salary not to exceed $27,500, effective 1 July 1962

The President announced the retirement of Messrs. Atcheson L. Hench, Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, Arthur F. MacConochie, Professor of Engineering, Henry B. Mulholland, Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Internal Medicine, Earnest J. Oglesby, Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering, and Frederic T. Wood, Professor of Germanic Languages and Russian. Mr. Atcheson L. Hench has been a member of the faculty since September 1922, Mr. Arthur F. MacConochie has been a member of the faculty since September 1923, Dr. Henry B. Mulholland has been a member of the faculty since September 1926, Mr. Earnest J. Oglesby has been a member of the faculty since September 1931, and Mr. Frederic T. Wood has been a member of the faculty since September 1930

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby elected Professors Emeriti

Mr. Atcheson L. Hench, Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, who retires in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1922.

Mr. Arthur F. MacConochie, Professor of Engineering, who retires in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1923

Dr. Henry B. Mulholland, Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Internal Medicine, who retires in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1926

Mr. Earnest J. Oglesby, Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering, who retires in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1931

Mr. Frederic T. Wood, Professor of Germanic Languages and Russian, who retires in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1930

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Arthur J. Bachrach, Associate Professor of Psychology in the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective 31 August 1962, to accept a position as Professor and Chairman of the Department of Psychology at Arizona State University

Mr. James H. Bash, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1962, to accept the position of Regional Programs Associate with the Southern Regional Education Board, Atlanta, Georgia

Mr. Robert Brunish, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective 30 June 1962, to work with Professor Asboe-Hansen at the University of Copenhagen

Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, effective 30 June 1962, to continue teaching and research at the University of Virginia

Mr. John W. Eldridge, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position as Head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Massachusetts

Mr. Frank A. Geldard, Professor of Psychology, effective 31 August 1962, to accept a position at Princeton University

Mr. Charles A. Micaud, Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position at the University of Denver

Mr. Harrison J. Pemberton, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position at Washington and Lee University.

Mr. George P. Wilson, Jr., Associate Professor of Speech and Director of Radio and Television of the Division of Extension and General Studies, effective 31 August 1962, to accept a position at Iowa State University

The President announced the following appointments

Miss Zula Mae Baber as Acting Dean of the School of Nursing, for the period 1 July 1962 through 31 August 1962

Mr. Alan P. Batson as Director of the University Computer Center, for five years, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. McLemore Birdsong as Acting Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Francis J. Brooke, III as Acting Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages, for one year, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Alfred Burger as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr. as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. George Cooper as Acting Chairman of the Department of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. David H. Davis as Chairman of the Department of Music, for two years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Rowland A. Egger as Chairman of the Department of Foreign Affairs, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Rowland A. Egger as Chairman of the Department of Political Science, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick as Chairman of the Department of Astronomy and Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory, effective 1 February 1963 and extending to 30 June 1967

Mr. William D. Hedges as Director of the Division of Educational Research in the School of Education, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr. as Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Robert W. McGilvery as Acting Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Morris McKeehan as Acting Chairman of the Department of Anatomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. James L. Riopel as Director of the Mountain Lake Biological Station, for a term expiring 30 June 1963

Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Jr. as Assistant Dean of the School of Education, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Wayne A. Wallace as Chairman of the Department of Geography, for one year, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Robert S. Young as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences for Bonnycastle-Hancock Association, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Edward E. Younger as Chairman of the Corcoran Department of History, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. David Yu as Chairman of the Department of Religion, for two years, effective 1 July 1962.

The President announced the receipt of a gift of 4,291 shares of the capital stock of the First City National Bank of Houston, in Houston, Texas, which has been made to the University of Virginia by Mrs. M. W. Perkins (Mrs. Sallie Shepherd Perkins) of Asheville, North Carolina. This gift is to be added to an earlier gift of $50,000 made in June 1947, and the income from the combined sum is to be used to supplement the salary of a distinguished pediatrician to occupy a Chair to be known as the Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Professorship of Pediatrics.

The gift has been made by Mrs. Perkins in honor of and as a memorial to her grandfather, Benjamin Armistead Shepherd, and her brother, Benjamin Armistead Shepherd, II

Benjamin Armistead Shepherd was born on 14 May 1814 in Fluvanna County, Virginia, and moved to Kentucky in 1833. He lived successively in Nashville, Memphis, and New Orleans, from which he moved to Galveston, Texas, where he was married on 28 October 1840 to Mary Hobson of Nashville. The exact date of Mr. Shepherd's move to Houston is not known, but he was living there on 30 December 1847 when a bank was chartered, of which Mr. Shepherd was a Director. He opened a private bank in Houston in 1854 and continued with that institution until January 1867 when it was merged with the First National Bank of Houston, now the First City National Bank of Houston, of which he became President and held that position until his death in 1891. During the War Between the States, he and some associates bought and operated a ship, which ran cotton through the Federal blockade. In 1867, he purchased a residence on Park Street in Charlottesville, which he called "Meadeland" and which he and his family used for a summer home for several years.

Mr. Shepherd is known as one of the great contributors to the growth and development of Houston, and it was through his farsightedness and business acumen that many enterprises, including one of the railroads entering the city in the early days, were brought to Houston. His name is still revered as one of the pioneers in the development of Houston as a great commercial center

Benjamin Armistead Shepherd, II, who was named for his grandfather, was born in Fluvanna County in December 1886. He entered the University of Virginia and graduated with a Master of Arts degree in 1909. Following graduation, he studied law at Columbia University, but because of failing health, was unable to complete the course. He died in Richmond, Virginia, in November 1916 at the age of 30.

In order to carry out the wishes of Mrs. Perkins, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Professorship of Pediatrics

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS Mrs. Sallie Shepherd Perkins has made a magnificent gift to the University of Virginia for the purpose of supplementing the salary of a distinguished Professorship in Pediatrics in the School of Medicine in honor of and as a memorial to her grandfather, Benjamin Armistead Shepherd, and her brother, Benjamin Armistead Shepherd, II,

AND WHEREAS this Board has established a Chair in the Department of Pediatrics in the School of Medicine, to be known as the Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Professorship of Pediatrics, in order to carry out the wishes of Mrs. Perkins,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for this gift which will enable the University to attain further eminence in the field of pediatrics, and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to Mrs. Perkins as a mark of our warm appreciation.

The President announced the receipt of a gift by an anonymous donor for the support of instruction and research in the Department of Chemistry. This gift consists of 2,300 shares of common stock of the Du Pont Company. The anonymous donor, who has previously made gifts of approximately the same amounts for the Departments of Physics and Biology, has directed that the gift is to be used to supplement the salary of a distinguished professor to occupy a Chair to be known as the John W. Mallet Professorship of Chemistry, to supplement the salaries of younger, promising members of the faculty of the Department of Chemistry, to purchase equipment needed in Chemistry, and to establish a scholarship fund to be used to attract undergraduate, graduate, and post doctoral students. The gift was made on the condition that an appropriation be made by the 1962 General Assembly in the amount of $3.5 million to construct a Chemistry Building. As the President reported to the Board at its April meeting (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 14 April 1962, p. 314), such an appropriation was made, and it is now necessary to establish the Chair in Chemistry as requested by the anonymous donor

Mr. John W. Mallet was born near Dublin, Ireland on 10 October 1832. He came to the United States in 1853 to collect information for his father about the Erickson Caloric Engine with no expectation of remaining in this country. He became a professor at Amherst College, however, and served as a member of the faculty at a number of institutions of higher learning in this country before accepting a position as Professor of Chemistry at the University of Virginia. He was a member of the University faculty from 1868 to 1883 and from 1885 to 1908 when he retired and became Professor Emeritus. He died in 1912

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Department of Chemistry to be known as the John W. Mallet Professorship of Chemistry.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS a devoted friend of the University, who desires to remain anonymous, has made a magnificent gift of 2,300 shares of common stock of the Du Pont Company for the support of instruction and research in the Department of Chemistry,

AND WHEREAS this same person in previous years has made gifts of a similar magnitude for the support of instruction and research in Physics and Biology,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for these gifts which have enabled the University to attain a position of eminence in the field of science, and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the anonymous donor as a mark of our warm appreciation

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Blanton, submitted for the Board's consideration the proposed 1962-1963 University Budget, copies of which had previously been mailed to each member of the Board. Mr. Blanton reported that the Finance Committee had met with the President and the Comptroller on 18 May 1962 for a detailed review of the proposed budget and that the Finance Committee, at the conclusion of its meeting, had unanimously approved the budget as recommended. Following a discussion, Mr. Blanton proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1962-1963 University Budget as recommended by the President and as approved by the Finance Committee be and it is hereby approved

The President reported on some changes be was making in the organization of the Arts and Sciences, which were to be effective on 1 July 1962. He explained in detail the reasons for these changes and reported that he had sent a letter under the date of 1 June 1962 to each member of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences describing these changes. This letter is as follows

I am today reporting to the Rector and Visitors a new administrative structure which I believe will permit more effective operation of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences than has previously been possible.

At present, the Dean of the College is burdened with more duties than one man should be called upon to discharge. In addition to administrative details of the undergraduate College, he is responsible for obtaining suitable replacements and additions to the faculty of Arts and Sciences without having any responsibility for the graduate teaching which many of the new members of the faculty actually will engage in and must be employed to do

The plan set forth below, to become effective 1 July 1962, (a) changes the title of the present position of Dean of the College to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, (b) relieves the Dean of the Faculty of the day-to-day duties of administering the undergraduate College, which are delegated to a new position (although its title is not new) to be known as Dean of the College, and (c) makes the Dean of the Faculty responsible for appraising and co-ordinating both the graduate and undergraduate curricula and for recommending to the President persons to join the faculty of Arts and Sciences.

Direct responsibility for administering the undergraduate College is placed under the new position of Dean of the College, and the present position of Associate Dean of the College is discontinued

The position of Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is only slightly modified to include responsibility for research policy in Arts and Sciences and to provide for active participation with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining members of the faculty of Arts and Sciences who will participate in graduate instruction

I have appointed, effective 1 July 1962, Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences

In a short time I hope to be able to announce the appointment of the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences

The duties and responsibilities which will be assigned to the three positions are as follows

(1) Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to serve as the chief staff advisor to the President on all matters related to the undergraduate and graduate curricula in Arts and Sciences, to appraise the existing faculties of the several Departments in Arts and Sciences, and in consultation with the Dean of the Graduate School, the Dean of the College, and the Chairmen of Departments, to recommend to the President persons to fill vacancies on the faculty and to staff positions for expansion     to staff into areas not now covered, to prepare tables of organization for each of the several Departments p Departments, to consult with the Comptroller on the preparation of the annual and biennial budgets and other matters of a financial nature involving Arts and Sciences, on behalf of the President, to interview prospects for election to the faculty and make recommendations to the President on all such elections, and, in general, to conduct a continuous re-appraisal of the faculty strengths and weaknesses and needs of the faculty as expansion of enrollment occurs. The President will continue to interview all candidates for tenure appointments

(2) Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to advise the President and the Dean of the Faculty on all matters relating to graduate instructional and research policy in Arts and Sciences, to develop and expand the graduate enrollment in Arts and Sciences, to counsel graduate students on appropriate matters relating to graduate instruction, and to participate actively with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining faculty members whose duties will involve graduate instruction

(3) Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences to undertake all duties with respect to the academic programs of undergraduate students in the Arts and Sciences, to advise the Dean of the Faculty with respect to undergraduate faculty staffing and curricula, to advise the Dean of the Faculty on such matters involving undergraduate educational policy as he may deem advisable or as may be requested by the Dean of the Faculty, and to undertake such other duties as may be assigned by the Dean of the Faculty

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that C. Waller Barrett and David J. Mays be and they are hereby re-elected to the Advisory Committee for the McGregor Library for terms of four years, effective 1 July 1962

The President advised the Board that, at the University's request, Mr. John B. Gordon, a Charlottesville Realtor, had obtained an option in his own name, to purchase a parcel of land fronting approximately 180 feet on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue, between Lee and Randall Streets in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, from G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, J. Jason Crigler, and Marion K. Humphreys, Jr., at a price not to exceed $53,500.00, that because of tax consequences to them, the Grantors of the option had refused to grant an option unless the transaction, if the option was exercised, would constitute an instalment sale, and had therefore insisted upon a method of payment of consideration as follows: $13,375.00 cash on date set for delivery of deed, $40,125.00, the balance to be evidenced by three purchase money notes each in the amount of $13,375.00, bearing interest at 3% per annum payable in one, two and three years respectively from date of delivery of deed. The purchase money notes are to be unsecured

The option expires if not exercised prior to 1 July 1962. It appeared advisable, should the option be exercised, to obtain the authorization of the Board for the execution in the name and on behalf of the University, of the three unsecured notes for $13,375.00 each, above referred to

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President, or Vincent Shea, Comptroller, be and either of them hereby is, authorized and empowered, to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, three promissory notes not to exceed the principal sum of $13,375.00 each, payable to Bearer, bearing interest at the rate of 3% per annum, and payable one, two, and three years after date, respectively, said notes to be delivered as part of the consideration for the purchase by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia of certain property fronting approximately 180 feet on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue, between Lee and Randall Streets, in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia. Said notes shall be unsecured

The President advised the Board of the passage by the General Assembly of Virginia in the 1962 Session, of House Bill No. 725 (to become effective as Chapter 604, Acts of Assembly, 1962), which authorizes and empowers the governing bodies of The College of William and Mary in Virginia, the University of Virginia, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute, or duly authorized committees of such governing bodies, to enter into a joint agreement on behalf of their respective institutions for the operation and management of a space radiation effects laboratory to be constructed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the area of Hampton Roads, Virginia. The Act provides that such joint agreement shall be approved by resolution of the governing bodies of each institution, duly entered upon the minutes thereof, and that such joint agreement shall be executed on behalf of each institution by an official designated in such resolution

The Act further authorizes and empowers the governing bodies of said institutions, or duly authorized committees thereof, to negotiate and execute a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the operation and management of such space radiation effects laboratory by said institutions in conformity with the terms and conditions of the joint agreement

In order to carry out the provisions of this Act, the President reported that at his request the University's Counsel had prepared a tentative draft of a joint agreement between the three institutions for the operation and management of the contemplated space radiation effects laboratory and that at a meeting of representatives of the three institutions held on 11 May 1962, which was also attended by representatives of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and by Mr. William H. McFarlane, Director of the State Council of Higher Education, a final draft of such joint agreement to be submitted to the governing bodies of the three institutions had been agreed upon

Copies of such final draft were then distributed to the members of the Board for examination

After full discussion and careful consideration, upon motion duly seconded and carried, the following resolution was adopted

BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the Joint Agreement between The College of William and Mary in Virginia, the University of Virginia, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute bearing date of 1 July 1962, for the operation and management of a space radiation effects laboratory to be constructed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in the form submitted to this meeting, be and the same hereby is, approved,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to execute said Joint Agreement, bearing date of 1 July 1962, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Weldon Cooper, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to affix the corporate seal of this Institution thereto and to attest the same,

BE IT STILL FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and designated, as a committee of one of this Board, in conjunction with the governing bodies of The College of William and Mary in Virginia and Virginia Polytechnic Institute, or duly authorized committees of such governing bodies, to negotiate and execute a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, for the operation and management of such space radiation effects laboratory by said three institutions in conformity with the terms and conditions of said Joint Agreement dated 1 July 1962, and that Weldon Cooper, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to affix the corporate seal of this Institution to such contract and to attest the same.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to employ Mr. J. Russell Bailey, Architect, of Orange, Virginia, as architect for the proposed addition to Alderman Library Building.

The President reported in detail on the prospect for admissions for the academic session of 1962-1963

The President reported on a proposal by the School of Engineering, which was approved by the University Senate at its meeting on 15 May 1962, to establish a degree in the School of Engineering to be known as "Bachelor of Engineering Science." The basis for this proposal is that there has arisen a need and demand for a degree with a curriculum which bridges science and mathematics and is outside the specialized subject matter of any given branch of engineering. The adoption of this degree will not involve any increase in the Engineering faculty since the available instructional staff in Engineering and in the Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences will be sufficient to offer this program at the present level of enrollment in the School of Engineering

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering a degree to be known as "Bachelor of Engineering Science," effective 1 September 1962.

The President reminded the Board that, at its meeting on 13 June 1959 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 13 June 1959, p. 158), the fields in which the degree of Doctor of Science may be conferred were extended to include Nuclear Engineering and Electrical Engineering. The President reported that the faculty of the School of Engineering has requested the extension of the degree of Doctor of Science to include Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics be authorized. At its meeting on 15 May 1962 the University Senate approved this proposal. Adding these two fields in which the Doctor of Science may be earned will not result in an increase in staff, since qualified persons to teach in these two areas are already on the faculty

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1962, the fields in which the degree of Doctor of Science may be conferred be and they are hereby extended to include Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics

The President reported on a proposal by the faculty of the School of Engineering that the name of that School be changed to the "School of Engineering and Applied Science." The basis for this recommendation is the lack in the present title of any indication of the instruction and research now being conducted in applied science by the faculty and students in the School of Engineering

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1962, the name of the School of Engineering be and it is hereby changed to the School of Engineering and Applied Science

The President presented and discussed the annual report of the Student Activities Committee for 1961-1962

The President distributed a copy of the report of the Committee on Fallout Protection to each member of the Board and summarized the contents of the report.

The President reported that under the terms of the existing contract with Claude Coakley, dated October 27, 1960, for the management of the University Airport, Mr. Coakley had given the required notice of his desire to terminate the contract on June 1, 1962 and that it had been necessary to negotiate a new contract. The new contract would be with a corporation to be formed under the name of Charlottesville Aviation, Inc. of which Mr. William C. Clontz would be President and Mr. Ralph P. Zehler, Jr., would be secretary, and would run from June 1, 1962 to June 30, 1965, with automatic yearly renewals thereafter.

The President then submitted for consideration a draft of the new contract prepared by the University's special counsel, the terms and conditions of which had been approved by Dean Quarles of the School of Engineering, and recommended its execution on behalf of the University

After careful consideration, upon motion duly seconded, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a contract with Charlottesville Aviation, Inc., for the management of the University Airport at Milton, Virginia, such contract to be in the form submitted to this meeting, with such changes and additions as may be approved by the University's special counsel, and that the Secretary of this Board be, and he is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed to affix the seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia thereto and attest the same

The President stated that the University Long-Range Planning Committee had presented a report to him a few days before. A preliminary review of the report indicated that a number of excellent suggestions had been made. The President stated that he planned to review the report in detail this coming summer and to have a report on long-range planning ready for presentation to the Board at its next meeting on 29 September 1962

The President reported it had been called to his attention by The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C., successor trustee under the Will of William Jackson Humphreys, that the grave of Dr. Humphreys in Charlottesville has never been marked. Under the Will of Dr. Humphreys, his residuary estate was held in trust to pay certain annuities, one of which was $200.00 per month to his wife, Margaret Antrim Humphreys, the balance of income to be accumulated until the death of the survivor of the annuitants. Mrs. Humphreys is that survivor. Upon her death the assets of the trust and the accumulated income thereon are payable to the University of Virginia. The trust when last reviewed amounted to some $315,000.00

Apparently, at the time of the death of Dr. Humphreys, his wife had stated she would attend to the erection of a stone at the grave but this had never been done and her disability had become such that The Riggs National Bank had been appointed her conservator. Since it is not now possible to use Mrs. Humphreys' funds for this purpose, The Riggs National Bank has requested, on behalf of the family of Dr. and Mrs. Humphreys, that the University consent to the payment of the sum of $260.00 from the principal of the trust fund for the erection of an appropriate stone at the grave of Dr. Humphreys. Such stone would be inscribed with his name and the dates of his birth and death and the name and date of birth of Mrs. Humphreys.

After discussion of the matter, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that it gives its consent to the payment of the sum of $260.00 from the principal of the trust fund created under the Will of the late William Jackson Humphreys, of which the University of Virginia is beneficiary in remainder upon the death of Margaret Antrim Humphreys, widow of the testator, for the erection of an appropriate stone at the grave of Dr. Humphreys, to be inscribed with his name and the dates of his birth and death and the name and date of birth of his wife

The President reported that the three daughters of the late Dean Thornton of the School of Engineering, who lived on University Circle, had approached the University to inquire as to the interest of the Board of Visitors in accepting a gift of their property on University Circle if it should be offered. Following numerous expressions of appreciation by the Visitors, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the offer of Mrs. E. Carter Thurman, Miss Rosalie Thornton, and Miss Janet Thornton of their property known as "The Terraces" at 21 University Circle as a gift to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, subject to a life interest in accordance with an instrument to be prepared by the University's Special Counsel, would be gratefully accepted

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1962, the fee schedule for the School of General Studies shall be as follows: (1) the rate for Undergraduate College, Architecture, Commerce, Education, Nursing, Terminal, and Certificate Courses shall be $13.00 per semester-hour of credit, and (2) the rate for Graduate Education shall be $14.00 per semester-hour of credit

The President stated that he had reported in full to the Athletics Committee and the Finance Committee, in a meeting on 31 May 1962, on (1) the financial condition of the Department of Athletics, and (2) the necessity for a bond issue to complete the construction of University Hall. At the close of the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1962, the deficit of the Department of Athletics will be approximately $60,000. It is also estimated that a bond issue not to exceed $650,000, in addition to the State appropriation of $2,000,000 and the alumni gift of $500,000, will be necessary to complete the construction of University Hall. As a means of paying off the deficit and of retiring the bond issue of $650,000, both the Athletics Committee and the Finance Committee approved the increase in the annual student athletic fee from $20.00 to $26.00

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the student athletic fee be and it is hereby increased from $20.00 to $26.00 per academic session, effective 1 September 1962, the income from the increase of $6.00 (1) for the first two years to be applied to paying off the deficit of the Department of Athletics in the amount of approximately $60,000, and (2) thereafter to be applied during the succeeding 20 to 25 years, as required, to the retirement of a bond issue not exceeding $650,000 which will be necessary to complete the construction of University Hall

Mr. Hartfield made a motion, seconded by Mr. Montague, that the following resolution be adopted

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF $3,000,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1962) TO PAY THE COST OF CONSTRUCTING SEVEN NEW DORMITORIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA, PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF SUCH BONDS AND THE INTEREST THEREON FROM REVENUES, AND SETTING FORTH THE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE HOLDERS OF SUCH BONDS.

WHEREAS, by Article 2, Chapter 9, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia is declared to be a corporation under the style of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board"), and is vested with the supervision, management and control of the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Virginia, and

WHEREAS, by Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended (hereinafter sometimes called the "Act"), the University of Virginia, an institution under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville (hereinafter sometimes called the "Institution"), is classified as an educational institution, is declared to be a public body and is constituted a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education, and

WHEREAS, by virtue of the Act the Board, with the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, is authorized and empowered

(a) to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building or improvement involving an outlay of a capital nature which may be required by or convenient for the purposes of the Institution, including, without limitation of the foregoing, administration, teaching, lecture and exhibition halls, dormitories, dining halls, laundries, hospitals, infirmaries and all necessary lands,

(b) to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the Institution for any of such purposes, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Treasury Board") and to be payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from the project for which the bonds are issued and pledged for their payment, and

(c) to fix and revise from time to time and to charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of each project for which bonds are issued, and

WHEREAS, in order to alleviate the shortage of housing facilities at the Institution, the Board has heretofore determined to construct seven new dormitories (said new dormitories to house approximately 840 students and being hereinafter sometimes collectively called the "Project"), and

WHEREAS, the Board has estimated that four of the seven dormitories comprising the Project and housing 480 students will be completed and placed in operation in time for the fall semester of 1963 and that the remaining three dormitories will be completed and placed in operation in time for the fall semester of 1964, and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of paying the cost of the Project, the Board has determined to issue dormitory revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000), the proceeds of such amount of bonds being estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project, now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 101. In addition to words and terms elsewhere defined in this resolution, the following words and terms as used in this resolution shall have the following meanings, unless some other meaning is plainly intended

The word "Board" shall mean the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia or, if said Board shall be abolished, the board or body succeeding to the principal functions thereof.

The word "cost", as applied to the Project, shall embrase the cost of construction and all obligations and expenses and all items of cost which are set forth in Section 303 of this resolution.

The term "Current Expenses" shall mean the Board's reasonable and necessary current expenses of maintenance, repair and operation of the Project and shall include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all ordinary and usual expenses of maintenance, repair and operation, which may include expenses not annually recurring, premiums for insurance, and any other expenses required or permitted to be paid by the Board under the provisions of this resolution or by law, but shall not include any reserves for extraordinary maintenance or repair, or any allowance for depreciation, or any general administrative expenses of the Institution, or any deposits or transfers to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Sinking Fund").

The term "fiscal year" shall mean the period commencing on the first day of July and ending on the last day of June of the following year.

Section 102. Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the words "bond", "coupon", "owner", "holder" and "person" shall include the plural as well as the singular number, the word "person" shall include corporations and associations, including public bodies, as well as natural persons, and the word "holder" or "bondholder" when used herein with respect to bonds issued hereunder shall mean the holder of bonds at the time issued and outstanding hereunder.

Section 201. For the purpose of paying the cost of the Project, there shall be issued dormitory revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000). The bonds shall be designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962)", shall consist of 600 bonds of the denomination of $5,000 each, numbered 1 to 600, inclusive, shall be dated as of the 15th day of June, 1962, shall be stated to mature (without right of prior redemption), in numerical order, lowest numbers first, on the 15th day of June in the following years and in the following amounts, respectively:

and shall bear interest from their date until their payment at a rate or rates not exceeding six per centum (6%) per annum as shall hereafter be determined by the Board and by the Treasury Board, such interest to the respective maturities of the bonds being payable semi-annually on the 15th days of June and December in each year. Both the principal of and the interest on the bonds shall be payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

Section 202. The bonds shall bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia and shall be signed by the Comptroller of the University of Virginia, and the official seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be impressed on the bonds. The interest coupons to be attached thereto shall be executed with the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia. The bonds and coupons shall be, respectively, in substantially the following forms:

(Form of Bonds)

No. . . . . . .

$5,000

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, for value received, hereby promises to pay, solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth, to the bearer on the 15th day of June, 19..., upon the presentation and surrender hereof, the principal sum of

and to pay, solely from said special fund, interest thereon from the date hereof at the rate of .... ........................... per centum (.........%) per annum until payment of such principal sum, such interest to the maturity hereof being payable semi-annually on the 15th days of June and December in each year upon the presentation and surrender of the attached coupons representing such interest as the same respectively become due. Both the principal of and the interest on this bond are payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

This bond shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, but shall be payable as to both principal and interest solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth.

This bond is one of a duly authorized issue of $3,000,000 dormitory revenue bonds (hereinafter called the "bonds"), known as "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962)", consisting of bonds maturing in annual instalments on the 15th day of June in the years 1964 to 1992, inclusive, and issued for the purpose of paying the cost of constructing seven new dormitories at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia (said seven new dormitories being herein collectively called the "Project"). The proceeds of the bonds are estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project.

All of the bonds are issued under and pursuant to a resolution (herein called the "Resolution") duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (herein sometimes called the "Board") on June 1, 1962. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution for the provisions, among others, with respect to the custody and application of the proceeds of the bonds, the collection and disposition of revenues, the fund charged with and pledged to the payment of the interest on and the principal of the bonds, the nature and extent of the security, the rights, duties and obligations of the Board and the rights of the holders of the bonds, and, by the acceptance of this bond, the holder hereof assents to all of the provisions of the Resolution.

This bond is issued and the Resolution was adopted under and pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia, particularly Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended. The Resolution provides for the fixing, revising, charging and collecting by the Board of fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project in order that such fees, rents and charges will be sufficient to provide funds to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the Project and to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable. The Resolution also provides for the deposit of a sufficient amount of such fees, rents and charges over and above such cost of maintenance, repair and operation, to the credit of a special fund designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund", to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable, and said special fund is pledged to and charged with the payment of such principal and interest.

As declared by said Chapter 3, this bond shall be fully negotiable within the meaning and for all the purposes of Chapter 10, Title 6, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.

All acts, conditions and things required by the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia and the rules and regulations of the Board to happen, exist and be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond have happened, exist and have been performed as so required.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have caused this bond to be issued in its name and have caused this bond to bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia and to be signed by the Comptroller of said University, and the official seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to be impressed hereon, and the attached interest coupons to be executed with the facsimile signature of said Rector, all as of the 15th day of June, 1962.

.......................................... Comptroller of the University of Virginia

..................................... Rector of the University of Virginia

(From of Coupons)

No..............

$..............

On ...................1, 19...,

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will pay to bearer at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, upon presentation and surrender hereof, the sum of ...................................... Dollars in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, solely from the special fund referred to in, and for the semi-annual interest then due upon, its Dormitory Revenue Bond (Series 1962), dated as of June 15, 1962, No....................

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Rector of the University of Virginia.

Section 203. The proceeds (including accrued interest) of the bonds shall be paid into the State Treasury and deposited to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Construction Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called "Construction Fund").

Section 204. In case any bond issued hereunder shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost, the Board shall cause to be executed a new bond of like date, number and tenor in exchange and substitution for and upon the cancellation of such mutilated bond and its interest coupons, if any, or in lieu of and in substitution for such bond and its coupons, if any, destroyed or lost, upon the holder's paying the reasonable expenses and charges of the Board in connection therewith and, in the case of a bond destroyed or lost, his filing with the Board evidence satisfactory to the Board that such bond and coupons, if any, were destroyed or lost, and of his ownership thereof, and furnishing the Board with indemnity satisfactory to the Board.

Section 301. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Construction Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Construction Fund"), to the credit of which there shall be deposited the proceeds of the bonds required to be so deposited by Section 203 of this resolution. The moneys in the Construction Fund shall be held in trust and applied to the payment of the cost of the Project and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the future security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided.

Section 302. Payment of the cost of the Project shall be made from the Construction Fund as provided by law

Section 303. For the purposes of this resolution the cost of the Project may include, without intending thereby to limit or restrict or to extend any proper definition of such cost under any applicable laws or this resolution, the following

(a) obligations incurred for labor and materials and to contractors, builders and materialmen in connection with the Project,

(b) interest accruing upon the bonds prior to and during construction of the Project,

(c) taxes or other municipal or governmental charges lawfully levied or assessed during construction upon the Project or any property acquired therefor, and premiums on insurance, if any, in connection with the Project during construction,

(d) fees and expenses of engineers and architects for surveys and estimates and other preliminary investigations, preparation of plans, drawings and specifications and supervising construction, as well as for the performance of all other duties of engineers and architects in relation to construction of the Project or the issuance of bonds therefor,

(e) expenses of administration properly chargeable to the Project, legal expenses and fees, financing charges, cost of audits and of preparing and issuing the bonds, and all other items of expense not elsewhere in this Section specified incident to the construction of the Project and the placing of the Project in operation,

(f) any obligation or expense heretofore or hereafter incurred by the Board or by any other agency of the State of Virginia for any of the foregoing purposes

Section 304. When the Project shall have been completed, as evidenced by a certificate signed by the President or the Comptroller of the Institution and filed with the Secretary to the Board, any balance in the Construction Fund not deemed by the Board to be necessary to be reserved and so reserved by it for the payment of any remaining part of the cost of the Project shall be transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund

Section 401. The Board covenants that it will at all times fix, charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project, and that from time to time and as often as it shall appear to be necessary it will revise such fees, rents and charges in order that such fees, rents and charges will at all times be sufficient to provide for the payment of the Current Expenses and to provide for making deposits to the credit of the Sinking Fund in each fiscal year under the provisions of Section 404 of this Article of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the interest which will become due and payable on December 15 of such fiscal year and of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on June 15 of such fiscal year

Section 402. The Board covenants that, notwithstanding any other facilities which may now or hereafter be available for the housing of students at the Institution, it will require a sufficient number of students at the Institution to use and occupy the Project and will adopt and enforce such parietal and other rules and regulations as will assure that the Project will be fully utilized at all times during the regular school session at the Institution and will be utilized to the fullest extent practicable at all times during any summer school session at the Institution. The Board further covenants that there shall be no free student occupancy of the Project, with the exception of a reasonable number of resident proctors and student advisors

Section 403. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Revenue Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Revenue Fund"). The Board covenants that all fees, rents, charges and other revenues derived from the operation or ownership of the Project will be collected by the Board and deposited to the credit of the Revenue Fund. Payment of Current Expenses shall be made from the Revenue Fund as provided by law

Section 404. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Sinking Fund"). The Board covenants that, on or before the 5th day of December in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the interest which will become due and payable on December 15 of such fiscal year and that, on or before the 5th day of June in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on June 15 of such fiscal year, provided, however, that if the amount so transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund in any December or June shall be less than the required amount, the requirement therefor shall nevertheless be cumulative and the amount of any deficiency in any December or June shall be added to the amount otherwise required to be transferred in each December or June thereafter until such time as such deficiency shall have been made up, and provided, further, that when the moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall equal the principal of the outstanding bonds and the interest which will become due and payable thereon to their respective maturities, no further transfer need be made to the credit of the Sinking Fund. The balance in the Revenue Fund, if any, after making any transfer under the provisions of this Section shall be used for the purposes of the Institution as provided by law

Section 405. Subject to the provisions of this resolution, moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied (a) to the payment of interest upon the bonds as such interest becomes due and payable, or (b) to the payment of the principal of the bonds at their respective maturities, and such moneys are hereby pledged to and charged with the payments mentioned in this Section

Section 406. The moneys in the Revenue Fund and the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied as hereinabove provided and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the further security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided

Section 407. All bonds and interest coupons shall be cancelled upon their payment. Such bonds and coupons may be cremated by the State Treasurer, who shall execute a certificate of cremation in duplicate describing the bonds and coupons so cremated except that the numbers of the bonds to which such coupons appertain may be omitted unless otherwise directed by the Board, and one executed certificate shall be filed with the Comptroller of the Institution and the other executed certificate shall be retained by the State Treasurer.

Section 501. Moneys held for the credit of the Construction Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in securities which are defined as legal investments for public funds or deposited and redeposited in interest bearing time deposits and certificates of deposit of national banks located within the State of Virginia and of banks organized pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ 6-5 et seq.) of Title 6, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, all as provided in and subject to the terms, limitations and conditions of Sections 298, 299 of Title 2, Chapter 17, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption or withdrawal by the holder or depositor thereof at the option of such holder or depositor, not later than ninety (90) days after the date of such investment or deposit

Moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in securities which are defined as legal investments for sinking funds in Section 297 of Title 2, Chapter 17, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption by the holder thereof at the option of such holder, not later than June 15, 1992

Section 502. Obligations so purchased as an investment of moneys in any such Fund shall be deemed at all times to be a part of such Fund, and the interest accruing thereon and any profit realized from such investment shall be credited to such Fund, and any loss resulting from such investment shall be charged to such Fund

The State Treasurer shall sell at the best price obtainable or present for redemption any obligations so purchased whenever it shall be necessary so to do in order to provide moneys to meet any payment or transfer from any such Fund. Neither the State Treasurer nor the Board shall be liable or responsible for any loss resulting from any such investment

Section 601. The Board covenants that it will promptly pay the principal of and the interest on each and every bond issued under the provisions of this resolution at the place, on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in said bonds and in the coupons appertaining thereto, according to the true intent and meaning thereof. The principal and interest are payable solely from the revenues derived from the ownership or operation of the Project, which revenues are hereby pledged to the payment thereof in the manner and to the extent hereinabove particularly specified, and nothing in the bonds or in this resolution shall be deemed to constitute the bonds a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, nor shall the bonds ever be or become a charge against the State of Virginia

Section 602. The Board covenants that it will establish and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the use of the Project and the operation thereof, that all compensation, salaries, fees and wages paid by it in connection with the maintenance, repair and operation of the Project will be reasonable, that it will maintain and operate the Project in an efficient and economical manner, that, from the revenues of the Project, it will at all times maintain the same in good repair and in sound operating condition and will make all necessary repairs, renewals and replacements, that it will observe and perform all of the terms and conditions contained in the Act, and that it will comply with all valid acts, rules, regulations, orders and directions of any legislative, executive, administrative or judicial body applicable to the Project

Section 603. The Board covenants that it will not create or suffer to be created any lien or charge upon the Project or any part thereof or upon the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the lien and charge of the bonds secured hereby upon such revenues, and that, from such revenues or other available funds, it will pay or cause to be discharged, or will make adequate provision to satisfy and discharge, within sixty (60) days after the same shall accrue, all lawful claims and demands for labor, material, supplies or other objects which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the Project or any part thereof or the revenues therefrom, provided, however, that nothing in this Section contained shall require the Board to pay or cause to be discharged, or make provision for, any such lien or charge so long as the validity thereof shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate legal proceedings

Section 604. Notwithstanding any other provision of this resolution, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Board from paying all or any part of the Current Expenses from any funds available to the Board for such purpose, or from depositing any funds available to the Board for such purpose in the Sinking Fund for the payment of the interest on or the principal of the bonds issued under the provisions of this resolution

Section 605. The Board covenants that from and after the time when the contractors or any of them engaged in constructing the Project or any part thereof shall cease to be responsible, pursuant to the provisions of the respective contracts for the construction of the Project or such part, for loss or damage to the Project or such part occurring from fire or lightning, it will insure and at all times keep the Project or such part insured with a responsible insurance company or companies, qualified to assume the risk thereof, against physical loss or damage caused by fire or lightning, with such exceptions as are ordinarily required by insurers of structures of facilities of similar type, in an amount not less than eighty per centum (80%) of the replacement value of the Project or such part, less depreciation, provided, however, that such amount of insurance shall at all times be sufficient to comply with any legal or contractual requirement which, if breached, would result in assumption by the Board of a portion of any loss or damage as a co-insurer, and such insurance may provide for the deduction from each claim for loss or damage (except in case of a total loss) of not more than two per centum (2%) of the total amount of insurance required by the application of the co-insurance clause, and provided, further, that if at any time the Board shall be unable to obtain such insurance to the extent above required, either as to amount of such insurance or as to the risks covered thereby or the deductible provision thereof, it will not constitute an event of default under the provisions of this resolution if the Board shall carry such insurance to the extent reasonably obtainable

The proceeds of such insurance shall be available for, and shall to the extent necessary be applied to, the repair, replacement or reconstruction of the damaged or destroyed property. If such proceeds are more than sufficient for such purpose, the balance remaining shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund. If such proceeds, with other available funds, shall be insufficient for such purpose, such proceeds shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund or shall be used to purchase bonds, as the Board by resolution may determine.

Section 606. The Board covenants that no contract or contracts will be entered into or any action taken by which the rights of the bondholders might be impaired or diminished

Section 607. The Board covenants that it will keep an accurate record of the total cost of the Project, of the fees, rents, charges and other revenues collected, and of the application of such revenues. Such records shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspection of all interested persons.

The Board further covenants that, if so requested in writing by any bondholder within the month of July after the close of any fiscal year, it will cause the Comptroller of the Institution to make a report from the books and accounts relating to the Project for the preceding fiscal year Within the next two months copies of such report shall be filed with the Secretary to the Board and the State Treasurer and shall be mailed by the Comptroller to all bondholders who shall have filed their names and addresses with the Comptroller for such purpose. Each such report shall set forth in respect of the preceding fiscal year an income and expense account for the Project, the percentage of use of the Project, the details of all bonds paid, the amount on deposit at the end of such fiscal year to the credit of each Fund created under the provisions of this resolution and the details of any investment thereof, a schedule of all insurance policies which are then in effect, stating with respect to each policy the name of the insurer, the amount, number and expiration date, and the hazards and risks covered thereby, and also the findings of the Comptroller as to whether the moneys received by the Board under the provisions of this resolution during such fiscal year have been applied in accordance with the provisions of this resolution and whether the Board is in default of any of the covenants contained in Sections 401 and 402 of this resolution

Section 608. The Board covenants that it will not sell or otherwise dispose of or encumber the Project or any part thereof and will not create or permit to be created any charge or lien on the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the charge or lien of the bonds secured hereby on such revenues. The Board may, however, sell or dispose or permit the sale or disposal by the Institution of any furniture, fixtures, apparatus, tools, instruments or other movable property acquired for or in connection with the Project or any materials used in connection therewith, if the Board shall determine by resolution that such articles are no longer needed or are no longer useful in connection with the construction of the Project or the operation and maintenance of the Project. The proceeds of any sale made under the authority of this Section shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund

Section 701. In case the time for the payment of any coupon shall be extended, whether or not such extension be by or with the consent of the Board, such coupon shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the benefit or security of this resolution except subject to the prior payment in full of the principal of all bonds then outstanding and of all coupons the time for the payment of which shall not have been extended

Section 702. Each of the following events is hereby declared an "event of default", that is to say. If

(a) Payment of the Principal of any of the bonds shall not be made when the same shall become due and payable, or

(b) payment of any instalment of interest shall not be made within thirty (30) days after the same shall become due and payable, or

(c) the Board shall for any reason be rendered incapable of fulfilling its obligations hereunder, or

(d) the Project or any part thereof shall be destroyed or damaged and shall not be promptly repaired, replaced or reconstructed (whether such failure promptly to repair, replace or reconstruct the same be due to the impracticability of such repair, replacement or reconstruction or to lack of funds therefor or for any other reason), or

(e) final judgment for the payment of money shall be rendered against the Board as a result of its ownership or operation of the Project and any such judgment shall not be discharged within sixty (60) days from the entry thereof or an appeal shall not be taken therefrom or from the order, decree or process upon which or pursuant to which such judgment shall have been granted or entered, in such manner as to stay the execution of or levy under such judgment, order, decree or process or the enforcement thereof, or

(f) an order or decree shall be entered, with the consent or acquienscence of the Board, appointing a receiver or receivers of the Project or any part thereof or of the revenues thereof, or if such order or decree, having been entered without the acquiescence or consent of the Board, shall not be vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after entry thereof, or

(g) the Board shall default in the due and punctual performance of any other of the covenants, conditions, agreements and provisions contained in the bonds or in this resolution on the part of the Board to be performed, and such default shall continue for thirty (30) days after written notice specifying such default and requiring same to be remedied shall have been given to the Board by any bondholder

Section 703. Upon the happening and continuance of any event of default specified in Section 702 of this Article, then and in every such case any bondholder may proceed, subject to the provisions of Section 705 of this Article, to protect and enforce the rights of the bondholders by a suit, action or special proceeding in equity or at law, either for the specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein or in aid or execution of any power herein granted or for the enforcement of any proper legal or equitable remedy as such bondholder shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights

Section 704. In case any proceeding taken by any bondholder on account of any default shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Board and the bondholders shall be restored to their former positions and rights, respectively, and all rights and remedies of the bondholders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken.

Section 705. No holder of any of the bonds shall have any right in any manner whatever to affect, disturb or prejudice the security of this resolution or to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and all proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained for the equal benefit of all bondholders

Section 706. No remedy herein conferred on the bondholders is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every remedy conferred shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute

Section 707. No delay or omission of any bondholder to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein, and every power and remedy given by this Article to the bondholders may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient

Section 801. All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board contained in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board to the full extent authorized or permitted by law, and all such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be binding upon the successor or successors thereof from time to time and upon any officer, board, body or commission to whom or to which any power or duty affecting such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be transferred by or in accordance with law

No covenants, stipulation, obligation or agreement herein contained shall be deemed to be a covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of any present or future member, agent or employee of the Board in his individual capacity, and neither the Governor of the State of Virginia nor the members of the Board or of any other agency of the State of Virginia nor any officer thereof, present or future, executing the bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof

Section 802. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other instrument authorized or required by this resolution to be given to or filed with the Board shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or filed for all purposes of this resolution if and when sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia

Section 803. The officers and agents of the Board are hereby authorized and directed to do all acts and things required of them by the provisions of the bonds and this resolution for the full, punctual and complete performance of all the terms, covenants, provisions and agreements contained in the bonds and this resolution

Section 804. In case any one or more of the provisions of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons issued hereunder shall for any reason be held to be illegal or invalid, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons, but this resolution and the bonds and coupons shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had not been contained therein. In case any covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement contained in the bonds or in this resolution shall for any reason be held to be in violation of law, then such covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement shall be deemed to be the covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of the Board to the full extent permitted by law.

Section 805. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor and the Treasury Board

A vote being taken, said resolution was adopted by the following recorded vote: Ayes: Albert V. Bryan, Norborne Berkeley, Thomas H. Blanton, William M. Camp, Hunter Faulconer, Charles R. Fenwick, Joseph M. Hartfield, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Raynell G. Lantor, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Walter B. Martin, E. Sclater Montague, Herbert C. Pollock, Frank W. Rogers, and Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Nays: None.

Thereupon Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President of the University of Virginia stated that Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University, had received a sealed proposal from F. W. Craigie & Co., Richmond, Virginia, and Associates for the purchase of the $3,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) theretofore authorized. President Shannon asked Mr. Shea to open and read the proposal to the Rector and Visitors. After the proposal was read and discussed, Mr. Camp made a motion, seconded by Mr. Blanton, that the following resolution be adopted:

A RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE AWARD OF $3,000,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1962).

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board") has this day duly adopted a resolution authorizing the issuance of $3,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962); and

WHEREAS, the Board deems it advisable to sell said bonds at this time and has received a proposal from F. W. Craigie & Co., Richmond, Virginia, and Associates for the purchase of said bonds at the price of $3,000,900.00 plus accrued interest and bearing interest at the rate of three and one-half per centum (3-1/2%) per annum; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is for the best interests of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to accept the proposal of and to sell the bonds to F. W. Craigie & Co., Richmond, Virginia, and Associates in the amount and for the price and interest rate made in their proposal; now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:

Section 1. The proposal of F. W. Craigie & Co., Richmond, Virginia, and Associates is hereby accepted and said $3,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) are hereby awarded to F. W. Craigie & Co., Richmond, Virginia, and Associates in the amount and for the price and interest rate made in their proposal. This award is subject to the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia.

Section 2. All steps necessary to carry this resolution into effect shall be taken by the proper officers of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and of the University of Virginia.

Section 3. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia.

A vote being taken, said resolution was adopted by the following recorded vote: Ayes: Albert V. Bryan, Norborne Berkeley, Thomas H. Blanton, William M. Camp, Hunter Faulconer, Charles R. Fenwick, Joseph M. Hartfield, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Raynell G. Lantor, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Walter B. Martin, E. Sclater Montague, Herbert C. Pollock, Frank W. Rogers, and Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Nays: None.

The President announced the following gifts and grants:

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Mr. Zoltan A. Antony as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100.

Miss Anna M. Athanason as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600.

Mr. Samuel O. Bird as Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Martha Gene Darby as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,300.

Mr. Bert A. Goldman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100.

Miss Anne Henderson as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900.

Miss Mary H. Jones as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Mr. Robert D. Kinsman as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900.

Miss Ruth F. Necheles as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Mr. Samuel H. Phillips, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100.

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the elections of the following persons to the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby cancelled:

Mr. John J. Bibb, Jr., as Instructor in Psychology, for the 1962-1963 session.

Miss Eula D. Turner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation for the 19621963 session.

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College

Miss Rochelle Bernand as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100

Mr. Albert G. Duke as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400

Mrs. Jean S. Edson as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, two-fifths time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $2,960

Mrs. Helen R. Luntz as Visiting Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one semester, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $3,850

Mr. Tetsuo Ochikubo as Visiting Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,700

Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600

Mrs. Barbara Pollard as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. Mark Sumner as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Mr. Julien Binford, Professor of Art, for the 1962-1963 session, with one-fourth salary, $2,675, to pursue studies and experimentation in Illuminated Painting in Paris and other European countries

Mrs. Juliette B. Blessing, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for the first semester of the 1962-1963 session, with one-half salary, to study at the University of Paris to complete her doctorate

The Chancellor announced the following resignation

Miss Hsiao-shu Hsiung as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, due to contemplated marriage

The Chancellor presented the proposed 1962-1963 budget for Mary Washington College which had received the previous approval of the Finance Committee and the President at a meeting on 18 May 1962 and the Mary Washington College Committee at a meeting on 31 May 1962. Following a discussion, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Blanton proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1962-1963 Mary Washington College Budget, which has previously been approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee, be and it is hereby approved

The Chancellor advised the Board that the authorities of Mary Washington College had been requested by The Sunshine Laundry, owner of a parcel of real estate situated on the south side of William Street, in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, across from lands owned by the College, to waive or consent to modify a restrictive covenant applicable to The Sunshine Laundry's property, to the effect that there shall not be constructed thereon any buildings or structures other than buildings for residential purposes. The College authorities have been informed by The Sunshine Laundry that it desires such waiver or modification to allow the erection of a low level apartment building, garden type on the property. The College authorities are willing to allow this use of the property owned by The Sunshine Laundry

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the President be and he is hereby, authorized and empowered to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a waiver or consent to modification of the restrictive covenant applicable to the property of The Sunshine Laundry situated on the south side of William Street, in the City of Fredericksburg, Virginia, across from lands owned by The Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, to allow the erection of a low level apartment building, garden type, on such property, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University thereto and to attest the same, provided, however, that no such waiver or consent to modification be executed unless and until such instrument shall have first received the approval of the Special Counsel for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, both as to form and as to substance

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Charles R. Miller, Librarian at Clinch Valley College, effective 31 August 1962, to accept an appointment at Muskingum College, New Concord, Ohio

Mrs. Edith S. Miller, Associate Professor of Modern Languages at Clinch Valley College, effective 31 August 1962, to accept an appointment at Muskingum College, New Concord, Ohio

Mr. Orlan L. Sawey, Professor of English at Clinch Valley College, effective 31 August 1962, to accept a position as Professor of English at Appalachian State Teachers College in Boone, North Carolina

The President announced the following appointment

Mr. Edward L. Henson, Jr., as Dean of Students at Clinch Valley College, effective 10 May 1962.

The President presented to the Board for its consideration a deed of easement prepared by the University's Special Counsel and approved by the officials of the City of Fairfax, Virginia, whereby The Rector and Visitors granted to said City under certain conditions an easement for the purpose of laying, constructing, maintaining and repairing a 10′ force main for sewage purposes across the property of the George Mason College situated in Providence Magisterial District of Fairfax County, Virginia. The President pointed out that there was attached to said deed a plat on which the route of said 10′ force main over the property was indicated by a solid line. He further stated that the situation on the ground had been studied by S. H. O'Grince, Director of Buildings and Grounds, and that the route as shown on the plat had been approved by him.

After careful consideration and full discussion, upon motion, duly made, and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that the grant to the City of Fairfax, Virginia, of an easement of right of way for a 10′ force main for sewage purposes over the lands of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, on which the George Mason College of the University of Virginia, is located, which lands are situated in Providence Magisterial District of Fairfax County, Virginia, be and the same hereby is authorized,

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President, be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed, to execute a deed of grant of such easement in the form presented to this meeting, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Weldon Cooper, Secretary, be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia thereto and to attest the same

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies

Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Assistant Professor of General Studies at the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1962, at a salary of $6,800 plus 20 per cent for summer duties

Miss Gabrielle Roy as Instructor in Modern Languages at the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. John E. Wood as Instructor in Mathematics at the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

The President announced the following appointment

Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Director of the Patrick-Henry Branch of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1962

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

I am today reporting to the Rector and Visitors a new administrative structure which I believe will permit more effective operation of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences than has previously been possible.

At present, the Dean of the College is burdened with more duties than one man should be called upon to discharge. In addition to administrative details of the undergraduate College, he is responsible for obtaining suitable replacements and additions to the faculty of Arts and Sciences without having any responsibility for the graduate teaching which many of the new members of the faculty actually will engage in and must be employed to do

The plan set forth below, to become effective 1 July 1962, (a) changes the title of the present position of Dean of the College to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, (b) relieves the Dean of the Faculty of the day-to-day duties of administering the undergraduate College, which are delegated to a new position (although its title is not new) to be known as Dean of the College, and (c) makes the Dean of the Faculty responsible for appraising and co-ordinating both the graduate and undergraduate curricula and for recommending to the President persons to join the faculty of Arts and Sciences.

Direct responsibility for administering the undergraduate College is placed under the new position of Dean of the College, and the present position of Associate Dean of the College is discontinued

The position of Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is only slightly modified to include responsibility for research policy in Arts and Sciences and to provide for active participation with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining members of the faculty of Arts and Sciences who will participate in graduate instruction

I have appointed, effective 1 July 1962, Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences

In a short time I hope to be able to announce the appointment of the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences

The duties and responsibilities which will be assigned to the three positions are as follows

(1) Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to serve as the chief staff advisor to the President on all matters related to the undergraduate and graduate curricula in Arts and Sciences, to appraise the existing faculties of the several Departments in Arts and Sciences, and in consultation with the Dean of the Graduate School, the Dean of the College, and the Chairmen of Departments, to recommend to the President persons to fill vacancies on the faculty and to staff positions for expansion     to staff into areas not now covered, to prepare tables of organization for each of the several Departments p Departments, to consult with the Comptroller on the preparation of the annual and biennial budgets and other matters of a financial nature involving Arts and Sciences, on behalf of the President, to interview prospects for election to the faculty and make recommendations to the President on all such elections, and, in general, to conduct a continuous re-appraisal of the faculty strengths and weaknesses and needs of the faculty as expansion of enrollment occurs. The President will continue to interview all candidates for tenure appointments

(2) Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to advise the President and the Dean of the Faculty on all matters relating to graduate instructional and research policy in Arts and Sciences, to develop and expand the graduate enrollment in Arts and Sciences, to counsel graduate students on appropriate matters relating to graduate instruction, and to participate actively with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining faculty members whose duties will involve graduate instruction

(3) Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences to undertake all duties with respect to the academic programs of undergraduate students in the Arts and Sciences, to advise the Dean of the Faculty with respect to undergraduate faculty staffing and curricula, to advise the Dean of the Faculty on such matters involving undergraduate educational policy as he may deem advisable or as may be requested by the Dean of the Faculty, and to undertake such other duties as may be assigned by the Dean of the Faculty

I am today reporting to the Rector and Visitors a new administrative structure which I believe will permit more effective operation of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences than has previously been possible.

At present, the Dean of the College is burdened with more duties than one man should be called upon to discharge. In addition to administrative details of the undergraduate College, he is responsible for obtaining suitable replacements and additions to the faculty of Arts and Sciences without having any responsibility for the graduate teaching which many of the new members of the faculty actually will engage in and must be employed to do

The plan set forth below, to become effective 1 July 1962, (a) changes the title of the present position of Dean of the College to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, (b) relieves the Dean of the Faculty of the day-to-day duties of administering the undergraduate College, which are delegated to a new position (although its title is not new) to be known as Dean of the College, and (c) makes the Dean of the Faculty responsible for appraising and co-ordinating both the graduate and undergraduate curricula and for recommending to the President persons to join the faculty of Arts and Sciences.

Direct responsibility for administering the undergraduate College is placed under the new position of Dean of the College, and the present position of Associate Dean of the College is discontinued

The position of Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is only slightly modified to include responsibility for research policy in Arts and Sciences and to provide for active participation with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining members of the faculty of Arts and Sciences who will participate in graduate instruction

I have appointed, effective 1 July 1962, Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences

In a short time I hope to be able to announce the appointment of the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences

The duties and responsibilities which will be assigned to the three positions are as follows

(1) Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to serve as the chief staff advisor to the President on all matters related to the undergraduate and graduate curricula in Arts and Sciences, to appraise the existing faculties of the several Departments in Arts and Sciences, and in consultation with the Dean of the Graduate School, the Dean of the College, and the Chairmen of Departments, to recommend to the President persons to fill vacancies on the faculty and to staff positions for expansion     to staff into areas not now covered, to prepare tables of organization for each of the several Departments p Departments, to consult with the Comptroller on the preparation of the annual and biennial budgets and other matters of a financial nature involving Arts and Sciences, on behalf of the President, to interview prospects for election to the faculty and make recommendations to the President on all such elections, and, in general, to conduct a continuous re-appraisal of the faculty strengths and weaknesses and needs of the faculty as expansion of enrollment occurs. The President will continue to interview all candidates for tenure appointments

(2) Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to advise the President and the Dean of the Faculty on all matters relating to graduate instructional and research policy in Arts and Sciences, to develop and expand the graduate enrollment in Arts and Sciences, to counsel graduate students on appropriate matters relating to graduate instruction, and to participate actively with the Dean of the Faculty in obtaining faculty members whose duties will involve graduate instruction

(3) Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences to undertake all duties with respect to the academic programs of undergraduate students in the Arts and Sciences, to advise the Dean of the Faculty with respect to undergraduate faculty staffing and curricula, to advise the Dean of the Faculty on such matters involving undergraduate educational policy as he may deem advisable or as may be requested by the Dean of the Faculty, and to undertake such other duties as may be assigned by the Dean of the Faculty
