---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1962'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
ELECTION OF RECTORELECTION OF SECRETARYINTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERSAPPOINTMENT OF CHAIRMEN OF BOARD COMMITTEESCHANGE IN DATE OF OCTOBER MEETING OF THE BOARDELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSALBEMARLE BOTANICAL COLLECTIONREPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLYREPORT ON ATHLETICSADOPTION OF NEW FACULTY SALARY SCALESCollege and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, School of Education, School of Architecture, School of Commerce, School of Engineering, Graduate School of Business Administration, and School of LawEffective 1 September 1962School of NursingEffective 1 September 1962Pre-Clinical Medical Scale (12 Months' Basis)Effective 1 September 1962Mary Washington, George Mason, and Clinch Valley CollegesEffective 1 September 1962REPORT ON HOSPITALUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSROBERT C. TAYLOR ESTATE - CONVEYANCE OF NEW YORK CITY REAL ESTATEAMENDMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY REGULATIONSNEW STUDENT DORMITORIES PROJECTPROPERTY EASEMENTS ON EMMET STREETINCREASES IN CHARGES FOR HOSPITAL CAREALLOTMENT OF INCOME FROM THE ROBERT C. TAYLOR BEQUESTGIFTS AND GRANTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLERETIREMENTSRESIGNATIONADOPTION OF COLLEGE REGULATIONS REGARDING STUDENTSMary Washington College RegulationsNature of RegulationsResidence RequirementsRegistrationWithdrawalConductRegistration of VehiclesSolicitors and SalesmenSocial EventsFees and ExpensesGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Junior Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$5,200

5,400

5,600

Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$5,700

6,000

6,300

6,600

6,900

Assistant Professor

(Interval - 1½ years)

$7,300

7,600

7,900

8,200

8,500

8,800

Associate Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$8,600

9,100

9,600

10,100

10,600

11,100\* \*Special Approval

Professor

(Interval - 2½ years)

$11,000

11,800

12,600

13,400

14,200\*

15,000\*

15,800\*

16,600\*

Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$5,800

6,150

6,500

6,850

Assistant Professor

(Interval - 1 year)

$6,800

7,150

7,500

7,850

8,200

Associate Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$7,500

8,000

8,500

9,000

9,500

10,000

Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$9,000

9,500

10,000

10,500

11,000

11,500

12,000

Special "Not Fully Qualified" Ranges

Instructor

$4,900

5,200

5,500

5,800

6,100

Assistant Professor

$6,100

6,450

6,800

7,150

Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$7,300

7,600

7,900

8,200

8,500

Assistant Professor

(Interval - 1½ years)

$8,800

9,100

9,400

9,700

10,000

10,300

Associate Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$10,200

10,700

11,200

11,700

12,200

12,700\*

Professor

(Interval - 2½ years)

$12,900

13,750

14,600

15,450

16,300\*

17,150\*

18,000\*

Department Head

(Interval - 3 years)

$13,900

14,750

15,600

16,450

17,300\*

18,150\*

19,000\*

Assistant Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$4,500

4,800

Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

$5,300

5,600

5,900

6,200

Assistant Professor

(Interval - 1 year)

$6,200

6,500

6,800

7,100

7,400

Associate Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$6,900

7,300

7,700

8,100

8,500

8,900

Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$8,300

8,700

9,100

9,500

9,900

10,300

10,700

Bad debts, etc

$100,816.92

Free Service to Counties and Cities

138,566.55

$239,383.47

From Mr. Erskine Caldwell, to Alderman Library, 350 volumes, valued at

$ 1,747

From Miss Margot Chinnock, to the Children's Rehabilitation Center for the purchase of a colored television

1,000

From Mr. & Mrs. D. W. Kinsinger, to the hospital for the use of the Social Service Department

100

From Mrs. Oreste Rinetti, a $50 annual award over a four-year period in memory of her husband, to a student of Italian submitting the best composition on an Italian subject

200

From Mr. Robert C. Latimer, to the hospital to be added to the Hospital Memorial Fund

100

From Miss Emilie F. Latimer, to the hospital to be added to the Hospital Memorial Fund

100

From Mr. & Mrs. Donald C. Barnes, to the Medical School to be added to the Mulholland Chair of Medicine Fund

2,000

From Miss Mary Lee Morris, to the hospital for the use of the Social Service Department

100

From sundry persons, to establish the Richmond Alumni Scholarship, in honor of William T. Elias, to be awarded to an undergraduate student who has demonstrated unusual proficiency in football

10,210

From Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, for the Jessie Ball duPont Scholarships for the 1961-62 session

2,000

From Alpha Kappa Chapter, Epsilon Sigma Alpha Sorority, to the Children's Rehabilitation Center for the purchase of an ambulance stretcher

270

From Mona Bronfman Sheckman Foundation, to the Medical School to be added to the D. C. Wilson Lecture Fund

300

From Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, to the hospital in support of the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

2,045

From Norfolk Foundation, for the Florence Smith Medical Scholarships for the 1961-62 session

$ 15,200

From Hercules Powder Company, an unrestricted grant-in-aid for the support of the educational and research programs of the Department of Chemical Engineering

2,500

From Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, for graduate fellowships for the 196263 session

12,000

From Peninsula United Fund, to the Medical School for medical research

7,500

From National Fund for Medical Education, to the Medical School for basic, non-categorical research

4,590

From Levi Strauss and Company, to establish a Levi Strauss Scholarship

500

From Virginia Foundation for Architectural Education, to the School of Architecture

175

From Virginia Engineering Foundation, to the Engineering School in support of the library

250

From U. S. Office of Education, National Defense Graduate Fellowships for the 1961-62 session

125,000

From U. S. Office of Education, two fellowships under direction of Dr. J. D. Beaber, School of Education

15,000

From Alumni Association, athletic grants-in-aid

20,000

From Irwin Strasburger Memorial Medical Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. J. A. Owen, Department of Internal Medicine

1,000

From Parapsychology Foundation, Inc., for research under the direction of Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry and Neurology

1,500

From The Budd Company, an unrestricted gift

340

From Licensed Beverage Industries, Inc., for research under the direction of Dr. E. Majchrowicz, Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

5,000

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

12,609

From Office of Naval Research, for technical direction and administration of Project Squid, under the direction of Dr. J. E. Scott, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

69,500

From Office of Naval Research, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Harris, School of Engineering

15,000

From Department of the Army, for the purchase of equipment under the direction of Dr. W. S. Jordan, Department of Preventive Medicine

6,890

From International Cooperation Administration, for an Atomic Energy Training Program in the Philippines under the direction of Prof. L. R. Meem and Prof. T. G. Williamson, School of Engineering

85,000

From National Science Foundation, for renovation and improvement of facilities at the Mountain Lake Biological Station

25,000

From National Science Foundation, for the purchase of magnetic tape equipment for the computer center

13,000

From National Science Foundation, for support of an In-Service Institute in Science for Secondary School Teachers under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, Division of Extension and General Studies

21,100

From National Science Foundation, in support of an In-Service Institute in Mathematics for Secondary School Teachers under the direction of Dr. W. C. Lowry, School of Education

11,100

From National Science Foundation, for a cooperative college-school science program for the summer 1962, under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

15,830

From National Science Foundation, for a cooperative college-school science program for the summer 1962, under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, School of Engineering

8,275

From National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. D. Bodenstein, Department of Biology

43,700

From Department of the Army, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. J. W. Beams, Department of Physics

10,000

Dr. A. Chanutin, Department of Biochemistry

49,006

Dr. F. L. Hereford, Department of Physics

12,080

From U. S. Public Health Service, continuation of a training grant under the direction of Dr. T. R. Johns, Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

51,840

From U. S. Public Health Service, continuation of a training grant under the direction of Dr. K. R. Crispell, Department of Internal Medicine

43,740

From U. S. Public Health Service, a general research support grant for research programs of the School of Medicine, under the direction of Dr. T. H. Hunter

$115,346

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. J. D. Hain, Department of Neurology & Psychiatry

3,797

Dr. O. A. Thorup, Jr., Department of Internal Medicine

14,099

Dr. B. M. Smith, Department of Neurology & Psychiatry

2,703

Dr. W. H. Muller, Jr., Department of Surgery

35,029

Dr. J. P. Davison, Department of Clinical Pathology

6,428

Dr. W. F. Battig, Department of Psychology

10,867

Dr. V. Hollander, Cancer Research Laboratory

60,000

Dr. D. W. Kupke, Department of Biochemistry

679

Dr. L. Levine, Department of Physiology

6,480

Dr. M. G. Netsky, Department of Pathology

11,845

Dr. K. R. Crispell, Department of Internal Medicine

13,800

From Ford Foundation, in support of a Summer Seminar in Economics under the direction of Prof. D. R. Vining (NO PUBLICITY)

20,000

From Lilly Endowment, Inc., in support of the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy, for a period of two years (NO PUBLICITY)

50,000

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University at Charlottesville with the following present. Rector Albert V. Bryan, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Blanton, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hartfield, Johnson, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Martin, Montague, Pollock, Walker, and Wilkerson. Absent: Visitors Camp and Rogers. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 10 February 1962, previously distributed, were approved

Upon motion of Colonel Hartfield, duly seconded, the Secretary was instructed to cast a unanimous ballot for the election of Mr. Albert Vickers Bryan as Rector for a term ending on 28 February 1966

Upon motion of Colonel Hartfield, duly seconded, Mr. Weldon Cooper was elected Secretary for a term ending on 28 February 1966

The Rector announced that the Governor had appointed Mr. Walkley E. Johnson of Exmore, Mr. Frank W. Rogers of Roanoke, and Mr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. of Petersburg to the Board of Visitors for terms ending on 28 February 1966. He introduced Visitors Johnson and Walker to the Board members, and announced that Visitor Rogers was unavoidably absent

The Rector announced the appointment of the following Chairmen of Board Committees

Mr. Thomas H. Blanton as Chairman of the Finance Committee, effective 19 March 1962, to succeed Mr. Henry E. McWane

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., as Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, effective 28 March 1962, to succeed Mrs. Belva Dunn Jones.

The President, who is an Honorary Vice-President of the Tennyson Society, stated that he had been specially invited by Lord Ancaster, the President of the Tennyson Society, to be present at the meeting of the Society in the first part of October 1962 and to propose a toast of the Society at the annual dinner. He therefore proposed that the Board meeting scheduled for 13 October 1962 be changed to 29 September 1962 so as to make it possible for him to attend this meeting

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by the Board at its meeting on 9 December 1961 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 9 December 1961, p. 302) relating to the schedule of Board meetings for 1962 be and it is hereby amended as follows: delete "13 October 1962 — Charlottesville" and insert in lieu thereof "29 September 1962 — Charlottesville."

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Albert Altman as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period 1 April 1962 to 30 June 1962, effective 1 April 1962, at a salary of $7,200.

Mr. Vincent M. Bevilacqua as Assistant Professor of Speech, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Clinton R. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,500

Mr. Ernest H. Ern as Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,200

Mr. Peter Faller as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,600

Mr. Junius R. Fishburne as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $750

Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick as Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective 1 February 1963, at a salary of $10,600

Mr. Benjamin B. Graves as Associate Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $9,100, of which $8,600 will be paid by the State and $500 from departmental funds

Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Visiting Professor of Biology, for the period 1 February 1962 to 30 June 1963, at no salary from the State.

Mr. Peter L. Heath as Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Robert S. Johnson as Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,200, of which $5,600 will be paid by the State and $1,600 from departmental grants

Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej as Assistant Professor of Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Donald C. Larson as Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period 1 March 1962 to 30 June 1964, at a salary of $7,200.

Mr. J. Ramsey Martin, Jr. as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 August 1962, at a salary of $6,900, plus 20 per cent for summer duties

Mr. Donald H. Miller as Assistant Professor of City Planning in the School of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,200.

Miss Jo A. Prichard as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 June 1962, at a salary of $5,720

Mr. John A. Purinton, Jr. as Lecturer in Business Administration, for the period 7 March 1962 to 30 June 1962, at a salary of $1,950

Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr. as Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1962, at a salary of $7,000, of which $4,000 will be paid by the State and $3,000 from departmental earnings

Mr. Burette S. Tillinghast, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Daryle L. Waldron as Assistant Professor of Speech Correction and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,500

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Miss Carrie E. Boyle as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 October 1962

Dr. Eugene A. Foster as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Billy J. Gilpin as Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 August 1962.

Mr. James E. Kinard as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,900, plus 20 per cent for summer duties.

Mr. James M. Lane as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Miss Mallissa A. Showker as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 18 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence

Mr. Truman A. Botts, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to accept a position as Visiting Professor of Mathematics at the University of Puerto Rico

Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to teach at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Mr. Peter R. Goethals, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to do anthropological field research in Southeast Asia

Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, to extend leave until 1 February 1963, without pay, to continue research in economic development at the Brazilian Institute of Economics in Rio de Janiero, Brazil

Mr. James R. Schlesinger, Associate Professor of Economics, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to continue his research and writing

Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to enable him to do research at the National Bureau of Standards' Boulder Laboratory under a National Research Council Fellowship

Miss Margaret G. Tyson, Dean of the School of Nursing, to extend leave for the period 1 July 1962 to 1 September 1962, without pay, to complete the requirements for the doctoral degree at Columbia University.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made.

Mr. Everett U. Crosby, from Visiting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for two years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Eugene S. McVey, from Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Ralph R. Nash, from Acting Professor of Engineering Materials, to Professor of Engineering Materials, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Elbert B. Reynolds, Jr., from Acting Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salaries indicated

Dr. Alto E. Feller, Professor of Microbiology, at a salary of $18,000, plus $1,000 from the National Fund for Medical Education, effective 1 April 1962.

Mr. Frank W. Finger, Professor of Psychology, at a salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1962

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Frank A. Geldard, Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, effective 31 August 1962, to accept a professorship at Princeton University.

Dr. Robert G. Kindred, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, effective 1 March 1962, to accept a position as Chief Medical Officer of the Orthopedic Surgery Division at the District General Hospital in Washington, D. C.

Mr. William R. Manierre, Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position as Associate Professor of English at Rutgers University

Mr. Frank W. Trainor, Assistant Professor of Geology, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position with the Water Resources Division of the United States Geological Survey

Mr. Harry Tucker, Jr., Assistant Professor of German, effective 30 June 1962, to accept a position as Associate Professor of German at Parsons College in Fairfield, Iowa

The President announced the following appointments

Mr. J. Ramsey Martin, Jr. as Assistant Dean of Admissions, effective 1 August 1962

Mr. G. Warren Nutter as Chairman of the James Wilson Department of Economics, for three years, effective 1 July 1962

The President reported to the Board on the establishment by the Albemarle Garden Club of an Albemarle Botanical Collection at Morea

The President reported in detail on the actions of the General Assembly affecting the University. He included in his report an extensive account of the appropriations which were made for both maintenance and operation and capital outlay

The President announced that he and the Athletics Committee had met on the preceding afternoon with certain members of the staff of the Department of Athletics for a detailed consideration of the current situation with respect to the athletic program. He reported on that meeting and on future plans for the athletic program at the University.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty salary scales be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 September 1962, subject to the approval of the Governor

Special Approval

The President reported in detail on certain measures affecting the University Hospital

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1047, 1048, 1051, 1052, 1055, 1056, 1059, 1060, 1063, 1064, 1067, 1068, 1071, 1072, 1075, and 1076, aggregating $239,383.47, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

In connection with the settlement of the Robert C. Taylor estate the President reported that a parcel of real estate situated in the Borough of Manhattan, in the City of New York, known as No. 16 East 93rd Street, a part of the corpus of the Taylor estate, had been sold by Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, as sole surviving Executor and Trustee under Mr. Taylor's will, for the sum of $100,000.00 cash to Disque Deane, Esq. The attorneys for the purchaser are of the opinion, in which the attorneys for the Trustee concur, that it is questionable whether the power of sale granted the Trustee under Mr. Taylor's will survived the death of Mr. Taylor's wife whose life was the measuring life of the trust created under the will. In consequence title to the real estate in question passed automatically to the University on Mrs. Taylor's death and a deed from the University to the purchaser is necessary to convey title. The President further stated that the purchaser's attorneys desired the conveyance of the real estate approved by the Governor as in their opinion the provisions of Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, applied to this transaction. The President then presented for consideration a draft of a deed of conveyance of the property in question, prepared by Messrs. Kelley, Drye, Newhall, Maginnis & Warren, counsel for Mr. Taylor's Trustee, and approved by the University's special counsel. He requested authority from the Board to execute the deed.

After consideration of the draft of the deed and full discussion of the matter, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that sale to Disque Deane of the premises situated in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, known as No. 16 East 93rd Street, being a portion of the property devised and bequeathed to the University of Virginia by the will of the late Robert C. Taylor, in consideration of $100,000.00 cash, be and the same is hereby ratified and approved, and that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President, and Weldon Cooper, Secretary, be, and they hereby are authorized and empowered, the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, as required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, first having been obtained thereto, to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a deed of conveyance of said real estate to said Disque Deane, and to affix its corporate seal thereto and attest the same, such deed to be substantially in the form submitted to this Board

The President reported that certain difficulties had arisen with respect to the collection of tuition charges from students at the beginning of registration for the second semester of the academic year. A proposal had been prepared which would prevent these difficulties in the future Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by the Board at its meeting on 14 October 1961 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 14 October 1961, pp. 291-293) setting forth the University Regulations applying to all students in the schools at Charlottesville be and it is hereby amended, effective 1 September 1962, as follows: (1) Under "Registration" strike out the second paragraph entitled "Delayed Registration" and insert in lieu thereof the following: "Delayed Registration - Any student who fails to present himself at the times specified, for his first registration in any academic session, will not be permitted to matriculate unless he can explain his delay to the satisfaction of the Dean of his School. If admitted after explanation, the student will be charged a delayed registration fee of fifteen dollars, ten dollars of which may be waived by the Dean of the School for proper cause", and (2) Under "Registration" insert a new paragraph following the paragraph entitled "Delayed Registration" to read as follows: "Second Semester Registration - Immediately following the final date for payment of second semester tuition, the Registrar will send a letter to the appropriate Dean, listing the names of the students in his School who were registered in the first semester but who have not completed their registration by payment of fees, and, therefore, will not be permitted to attend classes. A copy of this letter will be sent to each student and to his parents. If after ten days from the date of this letter, a student has not completed his second semester registration, he will not be permitted to do so.

"The only appeal from failure to complete second semester registration by the above deadline will be by the submission of a written petition for re-admission to the Registrar. This petition will be considered by a committee made up of the Registrar, Bursar, and one other member of the administrative staff of the University designated by the President. In addition, the student will be required to appear in person before this committee. If re-admitted, a charge of twenty-five dollars will be assessed each student re-admitted."

In connection with the new student dormitories to be erected on the west side of Alderman Road, the President stated he had been informed the construction of these buildings would necessitate the relocation of water, sewer and other utility lines running through the site of the project, which in turn would necessitate the grant of new and, in some cases perhaps additional, easements of rights of way to the City of Charlottesville and possibly to utility companies for such relocated or additional utility lines. As the exact routes of such easements have not as yet been finally determined the instruments by which the University would grant such easements could not be prepared in time for presentation to the meeting. However, the President pointed out, the exact routes would be determined shortly and as soon as determined the execution of the instruments granting the new rights of way should be executed in order to avoid delay in construction on the project. He felt that action should not wait until the next meeting of the Board in June. The President therefore requested general authority from the Board to execute on behalf of The Rector and Visitors such easement grants as might be necessary

After due consideration, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that the President be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia such grants of easements of right of way as he deems necessary for the purpose of relocating present utility lines and running additional utility lines, in, over and under the site of the proposed new student dormitories project, and that the Secretary be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to such grants and to attest the same

The President reminded the members of the Board of the request he had presented at the December, 1961 meeting (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, p. 303) from the City Manager of the City of Charlottesville for some easements on certain University property for use in expanding the present two-lanes of Emmet Street from the C. & O. underpass north, to a four-lane divided street. In December certain problems relating to the traffic flow into Emmet Street from University Gardens had not been worked out in detail. At that time he thought his recommendations on the matter would have to be submitted to the Executive Committee.

Since the December meeting of the Board the problems of traffic flow from University Gardens into Emmet Street had been satisfactorily solved. The President detailed to the Board the solution of these problems and then went on to say that the City had renewed its request. However, the City was now uncertain whether the Bureau of Public Roads will accept an easement in lieu of a fee simple conveyance of title for the portion of the University's property on which the actual roadbed is to be constructed. The City hopes to begin construction in May and must certify prior to beginning construction that titles to all lands necessary for the road have been secured. It appeared therefore that the matter probably could not wait for action by the full Board at its meeting in June. The President requested that he be granted authority to execute, preferably, a grant of easement of the lands needed by the City, but if necessary, a deed to such lands conveying the fee simple title thereto, subject to the approval of the Governor, of such conveyance.

After full discussion of the matter, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that the President be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, such grants of easement of right of way over lands of the University of Virginia necessary to enable the City of Charlottesville to construct a four-lane street along the present route of Emmet Street from the C. & O. underpass north,

RESOLVED, further, that if necessary in the discretion of the President, and subject to the approval of the Governor of such conveyance, the President be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute a deed to the City of Charlottesville conveying the fee simple title to such lands of the University of Virginia as may be required to enable the City of Charlottesville to construct such four-lane street,

RESOLVED, further, that the Secretary be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to any such grant of easement or deed, and to attest the same

The President reminded the Board of the policy of the University which called for setting the rates for care at the University Hospital on the basis of cost. He regretfully announced that the existing schedule of charges, which had not been changed for several years, was not sufficiently high to support the cost of care now being given at the hospital. He stated that some increases were therefore needed and that they should go into effect immediately since the policy is not to charge a person, when the rates are raised, if he enters the hospital prior to the effective date of the increase

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University Hospital be and it is hereby authorized, effective 16 April 1962, to make the following increases in the charges for hospital care (1) an increase of $2.00 per day for hospital room accommodations and nursery care, and (2) an increase of $3.00 per day in charges for the four large Barringer private rooms on Davis II and III nursing units.

The President announced that the University would receive in the very near future a substantial gift from the estate of the late Robert C. Taylor. He presented a plan by which the income from the Taylor Bequest, the principal of which was approximately three and one-half million dollars, would be allocated as follows: (1) the income from two and one-half million dollars to be assigned to the supplementation of the salaries of distinguished professorships, (2) the income from one million dollars, or as much thereof as would be needed, to support a very desirable disability insurance plan for the University faculty, and (3) the remaining income, if any, to be used for scholarships

The President stated further that he had been approached by an anonymous donor who had indicated an interest in making a gift to the University of approximately one and one-quarter million dollars for the supplementation of faculty salaries for distinguished professorships, provided the Board of Visitors would earmark the income from two and one-half million dollars of the Taylor Bequest for the same purpose. The anonymous donor had also informed the President that he expected in the future to make additional gifts to the University for this same purpose if the Board saw fit to act in accordance with his proposal

Accordingly, the President proposed and, after discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the income from the Robert C. Taylor Bequest, the corpus of which is approximately three and one-half million dollars ($3,500,000), shall be assigned as follows: (1) the income from two and one-half million dollars ($2,500,000) shall be devoted to the supplementation of faculty salaries by the establishment of additional special professorships for distinguished members of the faculty upon the understanding that an anonymous donor intends to designate for the same purpose the income from an initial gift of approximately one and one-fourth million dollars ($1,250,000) and the income from such additional gifts as he may make to this fund, (2) the income from the remaining one million dollars ($1,000,000) of the Taylor Bequest, or as much thereof as may be needed, shall be used to finance a TIAA disability insurance program for the faculty, and (3) any income remaining shall be devoted to regional scholarships

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson as Professor of English, effective 1 July 1962.

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Mr. Richard A. Brashares as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Mr. Donald E. Jackson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,800.

Miss Rose M. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,800.

Mrs. Winnifred C. Nielsen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Miss M. Paulina de la Torre as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600.

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Mr. John J. Bibb, Jr. as Instructor in Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Mrs. Juliette B. Blessing as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100.

Mrs. Cartha B. Bragg as Instructor in Art, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $2,950.

Mr. Nathaniel H. Brown as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Miss Mildred A. Droste as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400

Mr. Donald E. Glover as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

Miss Miriam J. Greenberg as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400.

Miss Mary R. Griffin as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

Miss Rosemary Herman as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400

Mr. Lafayette J. Jones as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

Mr. Harold M. Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mrs. Nancy H. Mitchell as Instructor in English, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $3,100

Miss Mary E. Montgomery as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

Miss Mary L. Morris as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600

Miss Vivian L. Munson as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100

Mr. William C. Pinschmidt, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400

Miss Virginia W. Price as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. Russell S. Ratcliffe as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Miss Lois J. Reid as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900.

Miss Josefa Rivas as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Miss Eula Turner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mrs. Consuelo H. van Beek as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600

Miss Katharine F. Wells as Visiting Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, with a base salary of $8,100, the exact salary to be determined by the teaching load

Miss Ellen B. Wood as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made

Miss Lia Beretta, Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, to Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. Peter R. Coffin, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700

Mr. Henry W. Hewetson, Associate Professor of Economics, to Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $9,100

Mrs. Myra L. Irby, Instructor in History, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. Kurt F. Leidecker, Associate Professor of Philosophy, to Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,700

Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of English, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700

Mrs. Cornelia D. Oliver, Instructor in Art, to Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Miss Mary J. Parrish, Assistant Professor of Biology, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700.

Mr. Charles A. Sletten, Assistant Professor of Sociology, to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700.

Mr. Joseph C. Vance, Assistant Professor of History, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700.

Mr. George M. Van Sant, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,700

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence:

Mr. John T. Fauls, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the 1962-1963 session, without pay, to study at the Medical College of Virginia.

Miss Carmen L. Rivera, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for the 1962-1963 session, with half-pay, to study at the University of Salamanca to complete her doctorate

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title for members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made

Miss Anna S. Hoye, from Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,500

Mr. Robert H. Shaw, from Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, part-time, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $4,050

The Chancellor announced the following retirements

Mr. Reynold H. Brooks, Director of Public Relations, effective 30 June 1962. Mr. Brooks began work at the College on 15 September 1947

Mr. James Harvey Dodd, Chairman and Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1962. Mr. Dodd has been associated with the College from September 1928 to the present. He was on leave during the 1953-1954 session to teach at the University of the Philippines

Miss Sallie B. Harrison, Associate Professor of Home Economics, effective 30 June 1962. Miss Harrison was associated with the College from 1938 to 1947 and from 1951 to the present.

The Chancellor announced the following resignation

Mrs. Helen L. Sehrt, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, effective 30 June 1962, to maintain a home in Washington and continue work toward her doctorate

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1963, the following regulations shall apply to all students at Mary Washington College and shall be published each year in the catalogue of the College

The information contained in these student regulations constitutes an abbreviated statement of policies which are explained more fully in the College catalogue and other authorized publications of the College. These regulations and any other information conveyed to students, or to prospective students, are subject to change at any time by the appropriate authority

All students, except those living in their own homes and attending as day students, are required to live in the College residence halls. Enrollees, having been duly accepted for admission and notified by the proper authority, should report, at the time and date specified in the College announcements, directly to the Resident Counsellor in the dormitory to which she has been assigned

Registration - Applicants seeking matriculation at the College should present themselves to the Registrar or his representative on the date specified in the College announcements

Delayed Registration - Any student who fails to present herself at the times specified for registration will not be permitted to matriculate unless she can explain her delay to the satisfaction of the Registrar. If admitted after explanation, the student will be charged a delayed registration fee of fifteen dollars, ten dollars of which may be waived by the Registrar for proper cause

Health Requirements - Each year, each student is required to present a certificate from her family physician indicating the results of a physical examination made not more than two months prior to the beginning of the session. If this approved health certificate is not on file at the time the student registers for classes, a fee of five dollars will be charged for its late filing

Withholding Academic Credit - Grades, diplomas, and transcripts of credits will be withheld for students and former students who have failed to meet their official financial obligations

Class Attendance - Students are required to attend classes regularly throughout the session, except within the framework of excused absences as described in detail in the College catalogue

Honor Pledge - Registration at the College is considered incomplete until each student has signed a pledge card certifying that she has familiarized herself with the Honor System code and understands fully what is expected of her

Voluntary Withdrawal - Any student desiring to withdraw from the College for any reason, must have the approval of the Dean of Students and the consent of parent or guardian if she is a minor

Enforced Withdrawal - The College reserves the right to request the withdrawal of any student whose academic standing, conduct, or general attitude is in its judgment unsatisfactory. Further, the College will enforce the dismissal of a student certified by the Honor Committee to be guilty of a breach of the Honor System

A handbook containing the Student Government and administrative regulations is presented to each student upon matriculation. It is expected that students will become thoroughly acquainted with the College regulations and conduct themselves as ladies at all times, both within the College and outside its jurisdiction. Students are expected to have their guests conform to these regulations

For student conduct which is outside the jurisdiction of the Honor Committee but which tends to discredit or injure the College, the Chancellor is authorized by the Board of Visitors to impose such penalty as he may deem appropriate, including expulsion from the College. This authority has been delegated by the Chancellor to the Student Judicial Council, or to the Joint Council, subject to review by the Chancellor or his delegated representative. When the penalty for bad conduct is expulsion, the student may appeal the decision to the Board of Visitors

Automobiles - Only Seniors are permitted to have cars on the campus. They must maintain a "C" average and have the written permission of their parents or guardians before bringing their own or family automobiles to College, where they must be registered immediately with the Dean of Students. Day students, driving to the campus, must also register their cars.

Bicycles - Any student bringing a bicycle to the College is required to license it in accordance with the regulations of the City of Fredericksburg.

Solicitors and salesmen, except those on official business with the College, are not permitted on the campus without special permission arranged through the Office of the Dean of Students. Students who act as representatives, distributors, salesmen or collectors for outside organizations must also make special arrangements through this office.

An active and varied social program is conducted by the College and its approved organizations However, any organization or group of students wishing to present a dance or any other social event must first obtain permission and approval of arrangements from the Dean of Students

The amount of the fixed fees for any given session is based on the establishment of the student's, or her parents' legal residency

Classification as a Virginia Student - Qualification for residency, as defined by the Rector and Board of Visitors, shall be as follows

In order to be considered a Virginia student for any given semester, it is necessary that the applicant shall have been domiciled in the State of Virginia for at least one year immediately preceding the beginning of that semester, and the applicant or her parents must have been bona fide taxpayers to the State of Virginia for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of registration

Residence in the State for the purpose of securing an education does not qualify an individual for classification as a Virginia student

Payment of Fees - All fees and expenses are payable in full in advance of the opening date of each semester. Remittance shall be made to Mary Washington College and sent to the Office of the Bursar. Failure to meet payments when due, or to make mutually satisfactory arrangements, may result in automatic suspension from the College until the account is brought up to date

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College

Mr. Richard H. Schlagel as Lecturer in Philosophy, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1962, at a salary of $825

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:05 p.m.
