---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1962'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1962) September 29, 1962
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 29, 1962

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

22 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCECANCELLATION OF LEAVECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRETIREMENTELECTION OF DR. DAVID C. WILSON AS PROFESSOR EMERITUSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSGIFT BY THE THORNTON FAMILYRESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDSARTICLE I.Definitions.ARTICLE II.Authorization, Form, Execution and Delivery of BondsUnited States of America State of VirginiaTHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIASTUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BOND (SERIES 1962)FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARSARTICLE III.Custody and Application of Proceeds of Bonds.ARTICLE IV.Revenues and FundsARTICLE V.Investment of FundsARTICLE VI.Particular Covenants.ARTICLE VIIRemediesARTICLE VIII.Miscellaneous ProvisionsRESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE SALE OF STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDSRETIREMENT POLICY FOR THE UNIVERSITY AT CHARLOTTESVILLERETIREMENT POLICY FOR THE COMMUNITY COLLEGESSALARY OF THE PRESIDENTREPORT ON LONG-RANGE PLANS FOR THE UNIVERSITYINSTITUTIONAL SELF-STUDYREPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT FOR 1962-1963REPORT ON CONSTRUCTIONREPORT ON SCOTT STADIUMUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSCOMMITTEE ON EDUCATIONAL POLICYROBERT C. TAYLOR BEQUESTDEPARTMENT OF ASTRONOMYREPORT ON FALL-OUT PROTECTIONVINCENT ESTATEGIFTS AND GRANTSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCELEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. JULIEN BINFORDAPPOINTMENTSSELECTION OF ARCHITECTS FOR NEW DORMITORYRETIREMENT POLICYGIFT BY MRS. ALBERT J. BOWLEYCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSLYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONSPATRICK-HENRY BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONSMADISON CENTER MATTERSELECTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Year of Maturity

Principal Amount

1964

$30,000

1965

35,000

1966

35,000

1967

35,000

1968

40,000

1969

40,000

1970

40,000

1971

40,000

1972

45,000

1973

45,000

1974

45,000

1975

50,000

1976

$50,000

1977

50,000

1978

55,000

1979

55,000

1980

55,000

1981

60,000

1982

60,000

1983

65,000

1984

65,000

1985

75,000

1986

70,000

1987

70,000

Bad debts, etc.

$181,503.23

Free Service to Counties and Cities

164,094.10

Total

$345,597.33

From Mr. Chester F. Carlson, to the Medical School to be used for parapsychology research, securities valued at

$ 12,500

From the estate of Ann H. Maury, to establish the Matthew Fontaine Maury Memorial Fund for scholarships for worthy students

50,000

From the estate of Betram C. Hopeman, to the Medical School to be added to the Mulholland Chair of Medicine Fund

12,000

From Mrs. Helen C. Mott, to the hospital to be added to Mott Cancer Fund

500

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the endowment fund for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship, securities valued at

4,650

From an anonymous donor, for scholarships in the School of Nursing for the 19621963 session

$ 14,000

From Mrs. William C. Williams, Jr., an unrestricted gift

100

From The Seven Society, to be added to the Seven Society Fund

100

From Mr. Vinton L. Pickens, to be added to the James E. Pate Memorial Scholarship Fund

200

From Mr. D. W. Kinsinger, to the hospital for the use of the Social Service Department

100

From Ambassador Hugh S. Cumming, Jr., to Alderman Library, 32 books from the library of Hugh S. Cumming, Surgeon-General of the United States, valued at

482

From the estate of Charles Conrad Freed, to the Medical School to be used for cardiology research

250

From Mr. Braxton Davenport, to the Medical School for the use of the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

250

From Mr. Randall Thompson, to be added to the Tuttle Memorial Music Fund

100

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, Nurses' Scholarships $500; Indigent Drug Fund $250

750

From The Stettinius Fund, Inc., to be added to the Stettinius Fellowship Fund

2,100

From George J. and Effie L. Seay Educational Fund, to be used for scholarships

3,000

From St. Anthony Educational Foundation, Inc., to be added to the University scholarship funds

250

From Virginia Reelers, to the Children's Rehabilitation Center for the purchase of wheel chairs

143

From the John Jay and Eliza Jane Watson Foundation, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Memorial Fellowship Fund

5,000

From the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Foundation, to the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

7,500

From Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., to the Department of Chemistry, $2,059 for the Shell Foundation Fellowship for 1962-1963; $500 for the department

2,559

From Union Bag-Camp Paper Corporation, an unrestricted gift

125

From E. I. duPont deNemours & Company, a postgraduate teaching assistant award in chemistry for the 1962-1963 session

1,952

From E. I. duPont deNemours & Company, a postgraduate teaching assistant award in physics for the 1962-1963 session

2,366

From Merck Company Foundation, to the Medical School to be added to the House Staff Loan Fund

3,000

From Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, to the Children's Rehabilitation Center in support of the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

1,100

From Danville Cancer Association, to the hospital to be used for cancer research

500

From General Motors Corporation, to the Department of Physics in support of research in the field of solid state physics

2,000

From Title Council of America, a scholarship grant to the School of Architecture

750

From Avalon Foundation, to the Medical School to be used for scholarships

10,000

From Burlington Industries Foundation, $1,000 for two scholarships; $1,000 an unrestricted grant

2,000

From Asia Society, Inc., for summer school scholarships for the 1962 summer session

2,400

From Carnegie Corporation, in support of a course under the direction of Dr. Paul T. David, Department of Political Science

12,500

From Brookings Institution, for research under the direction of Dr. J. M. Buchanan, Department of Economics

22,000

From American Medical Association, for research under the direction of Dr. J. A. Thomas, Department of Pharmacology

1,000

From Union Carbide Nuclear Company, for research under the direction of Dr. O. L. Updike, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

7,900

From American Cancer Society, for research under the direction of Dr. D. E. Smith, Department of Pathology

22,000

From American Machine and Foundry Company, for research under the direction of Mr. Hyo-gun Kim, Department of Physics

2,500

From Paint Research Institute, to the Department of Chemistry for a graduate fellowship

$ 6,000

From Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, for training in Speech Correction and Audiology, under the direction of Dr. Helen G. Burr, School of Education

28,547

From Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, for continued training in rehabilitation medicine, under the direction of Dr. A. J. Bollet, Department of Preventive Medicine

41,085

From American Heart Association, for research under the direction of Dr. J. F. Dammann, Jr., Department of Surgery

26,500

From Virginia Heart Association, for research under the direction of Dr. J. F. Dammann, Jr., Department of Surgery

6,372

From Virginia Heart Association, for research under the direction of Dr. N. O. Atuk, Department of Internal Medicine

4,850

From Virginia Heart Association, for a junior research fellowship in the Department of Internal Medicine

3,800

From Virginia Heart Association, for a junior research fellowship in the Department of Surgery

3,600

From U. S. Air Force, for research under the direction of Prof. C. N. Gaylord and Prof. J. A. Friedericy, School of Engineering

56,258

From U. S. Air Force, for continued research under the direction of Prof. O. R. Harris, School of Engineering

99,950

From Department of the Army, to the Department of Physics for the purchase of research equipment

11,233

From Department of the Navy, for the purchase of equipment for use in the Departments of Physics and Chemistry

60,784

From Department of the Navy, for research under the direction of Dr. L. F. McAuley, Department of Mathematics

8,970

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Drs. F. L. Hereford and W. D. Whitehead, Department of Physics

49,773

Dr. Avery Catlin, School of Engineering

29,370

Dr. J. N. Dent, Department of Biology

9,932

Drs. A. R. Kuhlthau and R. A. Lowry, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

400,000

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for the purchase of equipment for the Radio Chemistry Laboratory and the Nuclear Chemical Engineering Laboratory

9,856

From National Science Foundation, amendments to Summer Institute Grants under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. J. W. Cole, School of General Studies

778

Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

542

Dr. W. C. Lowry, School of Education

600

From National Science Foundation, Amendment No. 1 to Academic Year Institute grant under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, School of General Studies

3,741

From National Science Foundation, Amendment No. 2 to Academic Year Institute grant under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, School of General Studies

3,689

From National Science Foundation, for the purchase of undergraduate instructional scientific equipment for the Department of Biology

24,990

From National Science Foundation, for an In-Service Institute in Earth Science for Secondary School Teachers, Northern Virginia Branch, School of General Studies

6,980

From National Science Foundation, an institutional grant for 1962-1963

10,694

From National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Prof. P. R. Goethals, Department of Sociology and Anthropology

20,400

Prof. G. Tullock, Department of Economics

30,300

Prof. P. N. Schatz, Department of Chemistry

38,800

Prof. R. E. Lutz, Department of Chemistry

35,800

From U. S. Public Health Service, training grants under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. O. A. Thorup, Jr., Department of Internal Medicine

44,118

Drs. J. H. Allan and A. J. Bollet, Department of Orthopedics

22,000

Drs. W. H. Muller and J. F. Dammann, Department of Surgery

29,617

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Department of Pharmacology

14,015

Miss M. G. Tyson, School of Nursing

6,278

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Psychiatry

32,776

Dr. V. Hollander, Cancer Research Laboratory

25,000

Dr. M. G. Netsky, Department of Pathology

31,293

Miss Z. M. Baber, School of Nursing

10,650

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Development Award for Dr. L. M. Hall, Department of Biochemistry

$ 11,152

From U. S. Public Health Service, a Research Career Development Award for Dr. J. B. Littlefield, Department of Surgery

20,021

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. J. I. Kitay, Department of Internal Medicine

4,894

Dr. R. B. Martin, Department of Chemistry

14,000

Dr. H. L. Hamilton, Department of Biology

6,535

Dr. T. I. Crowell, Department of Chemistry

24,525

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Department of Pharmacology

8,280

Dr. G. Goldstein, Department of Microbiology

9,373

Dr. C. M. Russell, Department of Microbiology

8,798

Dr. D. P. Stacks, Department of Surgery

12,075

Dr. J. B. Littlefield, Department of Surgery

21,037

Drs. W. D. Warren and W. H. Muller, Department of Surgery

12,788

Dr. A. K. Brown, Department of Pediatrics

19,262

Dr. W. R. Sandusky, Department of Surgery

14,030

Dr. A. Burger, Department of Chemistry

22,681

Dr. W. Parson, Department of Internal Medicine

18,883

Dr. G. C. Pitts, Department of Physiology

5,169

Dr. O. A. Thorup, Department of Internal Medicine

12,305

Dr. J. A. Bollet, Department of Preventive Medicine

18,113

Dr. L. M. Hall, Department of Biochemistry

19,320

Dr. D. N. Mohler, Department of Internal Medicine

9,545

Dr. J. Q. Miller, Department of Neurology

18,130

Dr. G. M. Gerken, Department of Psychology

12,478

Drs. J. F. Hahn and R. C. Bice, Department of Psychology

21,551

Dr. H. G. Larew, School of Engineering

12,185

Dr. J. I. Kitay, Department of Internal Medicine

29,028

Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

7,153

Dr. E. D. Brand, Department of Pharmacology

14,950

From Mr. John L. Pratt, in support of the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory (NO PUBLICITY)

20,000

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. Rector Albert V. Bryan, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Camp, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hartfield, Johnson, Lewis, Martin, Montague, Pollock, Rogers, and Walker. Absent: Visitors Blanton, Kendig, Lantor, and Wilkerson. Bursar Edgar E. Woodward was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters

The minutes of the meeting of 1 June 1962, previously distributed, were approved as corrected

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. David W. Abse as Professor of Psychiatry, effective 1 September 1962, at an annual salary of $27,500, of which $6,300 will be paid from State funds and $21,200 from departmental funds and a graduate training grant

Mr. Alfred W. Coats as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $10,100

Mr. William H. Cook as Visiting Professor of Classics, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,080

Mrs. Beauty D. Crummette as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 27 August 1962, at a salary of $6,150

Mr. John Dos Passos as Writer-in-Residence, part-time, for a period beginning 5 February 1963 and ending 26 February 1963

Mr. Richard A. Duke as Junior Instructor in Mathematics, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $2,800

Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. John L. Ging as Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at no salary from the State

Mr. Robert J. Harris as Professor of Political Science, effective 1 July 1963, at a salary of $15,000, plus $3,000 for summer service and $2,000 for administrative duties.

Mr. W. Lewis Herring as Junior Instructor in German, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,400

Dr. Lewis A. Hurst as Visiting Professor of Psychiatry, for six months, effective 1 January 1963, at a salary of $3,900

Mr. Richard L. Jennings as Acting Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one year, effective 1 February 1963, at a salary of $7,900

Dr. Andrew G. Jessiman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1962, at no salary from the State

Mr. Stanley W. Kennedy as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1962, at no salary from the State

Dr. Frederick K. McCune as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 January 1963, at a salary of $19,000, of which $6,000 will be paid from State funds and $13,000 from the Department of Anesthesiology.

Mr. Edward Majchrowicz as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Biochemistry), for one year, effective 1 July 1962, at an annual salary of $8,500, of which $6,000 will be paid from State funds and $2,500 from research and training grants

Mr. John Marshall, Jr. as Instructor in Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,600

Dr. James Q. Miller as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962, at no salary from the State.

Mr. Wilhelm Moll as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, effective 1 September 1962, at an annual salary of $12,200, of which $6,144 will be paid from State funds and $6,056 from the National Fund for Medical Education.

Mr. Donald H. Shoemaker as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. David S. Smith as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1963, at an annual salary of $7,900

Mr. William L. Viar as Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective 15 September 1962, at a salary of $10,200.

Mr. Klaus Ziock as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1962, at an annual salary of $9,100.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Dr. Alfred J. Bollet as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Preventive Medicine, effective 1 July 1962, at a salary of $15,900, of which $8,000 will be paid from State funds and $7,900 from a research grant

Mr. Walter C. Connolly as Lecturer in Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,137.50, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester

Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Guy Estes as Assistant Professor of Forestry, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Robert N. Ganz as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Parker C. Griffin as Assistant Professor of Modern Languages, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. George R. Hall as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Leo M. Hall as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mrs. Nina Hollander as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1962.

Dr. Marion K. Humphries as Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

Miss Lillian A. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Robert L. Kellogg as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Julian I. Kitay as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1962

Dr. Calvin M. Kunin as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 June 1962

Mr. Donald W. Kupke as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Alwyn C. Lapsley as Lecturer in Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,325, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester.

Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1962.

Dr. Francis H. McGovern as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Richard D. McKinsey as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Harold S. Morton, Jr. as Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,325, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester.

Mr. Howard Newlon, Jr. as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $600, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester.

Mr. Hermon M. Parker as Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,575, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester.

Mr. John L. Ruseau as Instructor in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Tilton E. Shelburne as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $750, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester.

Mr. John M. Slepetz as Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $750, for the first semester, his salary for the second semester to be determined by the teaching load for that semester

Mr. Ertle Thompson as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,300

Mr. David A. Williams as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made

Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1962.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Dr. Phyllis R. Ingram, Assistant Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, without pay, for personal reasons.

Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Associate Professor of Music, for one semester, effective 1 September 1962, without pay, to complete his doctorate in musicology at Harvard University

The President reminded the Board of the leave of absence granted to Mr. Edward B. Gordon at the June 1962 meeting (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 1 June 1962, p. 327) for medical reasons. The President reported that Mr. Gordon has recovered and that a medical certification has been obtained stating he is now able to resume his teaching. Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence for Mr. Edward B. Gordon, Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration, previously authorized by the Board on 1 June 1962 for the 1962-1963 academic session, be and it is hereby cancelled and Mr. Gordon is hereby reinstated for the remainder of his five-year term ending on 30 June 1964

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Mr. Avery Catlin, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, from Lecturer in Aeronautical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $10,600, of which $2,650 will be paid from State funds and $7,950 from the Research Laboratories for Engineering Sciences

Mr. William R. Robinson, from Lecturer in English, to Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. William C. Stubblebine, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,300

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Professor of Law, at a salary of $13,400, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Frank W. Banghart, Associate Professor of Biostatistics in Preventive Medicine, at a salary of $12,700, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Lindsey Cowen, Professor of Law, at a salary of $13,400, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Rowland A. Egger, Acting Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, at a salary of $1,000, effective 1 September 1962

Dr. Alto E. Feller, Assistant Dean of the School of Medicine, at a salary of $1,000, for one year, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, at a salary of $13,400, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Walter L. Heilbronner, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences for Echols-Humphreys Association, at a salary of $500, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. W. Erwin Hester, Co-ordinator of Arts and Sciences for the School of General Studies, at a salary of $500, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Marcus B. Mallett, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a salary of $10,600, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a salary of $13,400, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, at a salary of $13,400, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Director of the Division of Management Programs in the Graduate School of Business Administration, at a salary of $1,500, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Morris E. Rose, Professor of Physics, at a salary of $15,800, of which $1,600 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $10,100, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, at a salary of $500, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Ertle Thompson, Associate Director of the National Science Foundation Institute Programs, at a salary of $1,095, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Walter D. Whitehead, Professor of Physics, at a salary of $11,800, of which $800 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1962.

The President announced the retirement of Dr. David C. Wilson, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry. Dr. Wilson has been a member of the faculty since September 1929.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus

Dr. David C. Wilson, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, who retired in June 1962, and has been on the staff of the University since 1929

The President announced the following resignations

Dr. Herbert A. Claiborne, Jr., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 1 July 1962, to enter private practice in Richmond, Virginia.

Dr. Morris Lambdin, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 December 1962, to enter private practice in Maine.

Mr. Ralph R. Nash, Professor of Materials Science, effective 10 August 1962, to accept a position with the Office of Naval Research

Mr. Charles A. Norford, Associate Professor of Education, effective 11 August 1962, to accept a position in business in the Charlottesville area.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointments

Captain William H. Adams as Assistant Professor of Air Science, effective 14 August 1962, at no salary from the University

Colonel James J. Benshoff as Professor of Air Science, effective 5 August 1962, at no salary from the University.

Lieutenant L. A. Lavoie as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective 1 September 1962, at no salary from the University

Lieutenant E. L. Rasor as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective 1 September 1962, at no salary from the University

Major J. W. P. Robertson as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective 1 September 1962, at no salary from the University.

The President also announced the following appointments

Mr. Nicolas Cabrera as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for five years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Rowland Egger as Acting Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Robert J. Harris as Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for a five-year term, effective 1 July 1963

Mr. Walter L. Heilbronner as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences for Echols-Humphreys Association, for three years, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Evan J. Male as Assistant Director of Athletics, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Dumas Malone as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Biographer-in-Residence

Mr. George B. Matthews as Chairman of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Bernard Mayo as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Scholar, for the 1962-1963 academic session, effective 1 September 1962.

Mr. Arthur F. Stocker as Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 July 1962.

Mr. Theodore R. Turner as Acting Chairman of the McIntire Department of Art, for one year, effective 1 July 1962

Mr. Wayne A. Wallace as Chairman of the Department of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

The President announced the the gift of the property at 21 University Circle by members of the Thornton family, which the Board had agreed to accept at its meeting on 1 June 1962 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 1 June 1962, p. 335), had now been completed. He therefore proposed the adoption of a resolution of thanks which was adopted, after numerous expressions of appreciation, as follows

WHEREAS Miss Janet Thornton, Miss E. Rosalie Thornton, and Mrs. E. Carter Thurman have made a gift of their property known as "The Terraces" at 21 University Circle along with certain tangible personal property to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia subject to a life interest, and

WHEREAS the generosity of the donors in this instance is especially gratifying as a mark of the continuing relationship between the Thornton family and the University,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for these gifts and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the donors as a mark of our warm appreciation.

Mr. Montague made a motion, seconded by Mr. Lewis, that the following resolution be adopted

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF $1,200,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1962) TO PAY THE COST OF CONSTRUCTING FOURTEEN APARTMENT BUILDINGS TO HOUSE MARRIED STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA, PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF SUCH BONDS AND THE INTEREST THEREON FROM REVENUES, AND SETTING FORTH THE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE HOLDERS OF SUCH BONDS.

WHEREAS, by Article 2, Chapter 9, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia is declared to be a corporation under the style of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board"), and is vested with the supervision, management and control of the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Virginia, and

WHEREAS, by Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended (hereinafter sometimes called the "Act"), the University of Virginia, an institution under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville (hereinafter sometimes called the "Institution"), is classified as an educational institution, is declared to be a public body and is constituted a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education, and

WHEREAS, by virtue of the Act the Board, with the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, is authorized and empowered

(a) to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building or improvement involving an outlay of a capital nature which may be required by or convenient for the purposes of the Institution, including, without limitation of the foregoing, administration, teaching, lecture and exhibition halls, dormitories, dining halls, laundries, hospitals, infirmaries and all necessary lands,

(b) to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the Institution for any of such purposes, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Treasury Board") and to be payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from the project for which bonds are issued and pledged for their payment, and

(c) to fix and revise from time to time and to charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of each project for which bonds are issued, and

WHEREAS, in order to alleviate the shortage of married student housing facilities at the Institution, the Board has heretofore determined to construct fourteen apartment buildings to house married students (said apartment buildings to house approximately 120 married students and their families and being hereinafter sometimes collectively called the "Project"), and

WHEREAS, the Board has estimated that the Project will be completed and placed in operation in time for the fall semester of 1963, and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of paying the cost of the Project, the Board has determined to issue student apartment buildings revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of One Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,200,000), the proceeds of such amount of bonds being estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project, now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 101. In addition to words and terms elsewhere defined in this resolution, the following words and terms as used in this resolution shall have the following meanings, unless some other meaning is plainly intended

The word "Board" shall mean the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia or, if said Board shall be abolished, the board or body succeeding to the principal functions thereof

The word "cost", as applied to the Project, shall embrace the cost of construction and all obligations and expenses and all items of cost which are set forth in Section 303 of this resolution

The term "Current Expenses" shall mean the Board's reasonable and necessary currect expenses of maintenance, repair and operation of the Project and shall include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all ordinary and usual expenses of maintenance, repair and operation, which may include expenses not annually recurring, premiums for insurance, and any other expenses required or permitted to be paid by the Board under the provisions of this resolution or by law, but shall not include any reserves for extraordinary maintenance or repair, or any allowance for depreciation, or any general administrative expenses of the Institution, or any deposits or transfers to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Sinking Fund")

The term "fiscal year" shall mean the period commencing on the first day of July and ending on the last day of June of the following year.

Section 102. Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the words "bond", "coupon", "owner", "holder" and "person" shall include the plural as well as the singular number, the word "person" shall include corporations and associations, including public bodies, as well as natural persons, and the word "holder" or "bondholder" when used herein with respect to bonds issued hereunder shall mean the holder of bonds at the time issued and outstanding hereunder

Section 201. For the purpose of paying the cost of the Project, there shall be issued student apartment buildings revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of One Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,200,000). The bonds shall be designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962)", shall consist of 240 bonds of the denomination of $5,000 each, numbered 1 to 240, inclusive, shall be dated as of the 1st day of October, 1962, shall be stated to mature (without right of prior redemption), in numerical order, lowest numbers first, on the 1st day of October in the following years and in the following amounts, respectively

and shall bear interest from their date until their payment at a rate or rates not exceeding six per centum (6%) per annum as shall hereafter be determined by the Board and by the Treasury Board, such interest to the respective maturities of the bonds being payable semi-annually on the 1st days of April and October in each year. Both the principal of and the interest on the bonds shall be payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts

Section 202. The bonds shall bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia and shall be signed by the Comptroller of the University of Virginia and by the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia and shall be countersigned by the Comptroller of the State of Virginia, and the official seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be impressed on the bonds. The interest coupons to be attached thereto shall be executed with the facsimile signatures of the Rector of the University of Virginia, the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia and the Comptroller of the State of Virginia. The bonds and coupons shall be, respectively, in substantially the following forms

(Form of Bonds)

No

$5,000

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, for value received, hereby promises to pay, solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth, to the bearer on the 1st day of October, 19  , upon the presentation and surrender hereof, the principal sum of      

and to pay, solely from said special fund, interest thereon from the date hereof at the rate of .................................. per centum (...................%) per annum until payment of such principal sum, such interest to the maturity hereof being payable semi-annually on the 1st days of April and October in each year upon the presentation and surrender of the attached coupons representing such interest as the same respectively become due. Both the principal of and the interest on this bond are payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts

This bond shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, but shall be payable as to both principal and interest solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth

This bond is one of a duly authorized issue of $1,200,000 student apartment buildings revenue bonds (hereinafter called the "bonds"), known as "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962)", consisting of bonds maturing in annual instalments on the 1st day of October, in the years 1964 to 1987, inclusive, and issued for the purpose of paying the cost of constructing fourteen apartment buildings to house married students at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia (said fourteen apartment buildings being herein collectively called the "Project"). The proceeds of the bonds are estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project

All of the bonds are issued under and pursuant to a resolution (herein called the "Resolution") duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (herein sometimes called the "Board") on September 29, 1962. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution for the provisions, among others, with respect to the custody and application of the proceeds of the bonds, the collection and disposition of revenues, the fund charged with and pledged to the payment of the interest on and the principal of the bonds, the nature and extent of the security, the rights, duties and obligations of the Board and the rights of the holders of the bonds, and, by the acceptance of this bond, the holder hereof assents to all of the provisions of the Resolution

This bond is issued and the Resolution was adopted under and pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia, particularly Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended. The Resolution provides for the fixing, revising, charging and collecting by the Board of fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project in order that such fees, rents and charges will be sufficient to provide funds to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the Project and to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable. The Resolution also provides for the deposit of a sufficient amount of such fees, rents and charges over and above such cost of maintenance, repair and operation, to the credit of a special fund designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund", to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable, and said special fund is pledged to and charged with the payment of such principal and interest

As declared by said Chapter 3, this bond shall be fully negotiable within the meaning and for all the purposes of Chapter 10, Title 6, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended

All acts, conditions and things required by the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia and the rules and regulations of the Board to happen, exist and be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond have happened, exist and have been performed as so required

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have caused this bond to be issued in its name, to bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia, to be signed by the Comptroller of said University and by the State Treasurer and to be countersigned by the Comptroller of the State of Virginia, the official seal of The Rector and and Visitors of the University of Virginia to be impressed hereon, and the attached interest coupons to be executed with the facsimile signatures of said Rector, State Treasurer and Comptroller of the State of Virginia, all as of the 1st day of October, 1962.

............................... Comptroller of the University of Virginia

............................... State Treasurer of the State of Virginia

.................................... Rector of the University of Virginia

.................................... Comptroller of the State of Virginia

(Form of Coupons)

No. ........

$................

On ........................... 1, 19..,

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will pay to bearer at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, upon presentation and surrender hereof, the sum of .................................. Dollars in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, solely from the special fund referred to in, and for the semi-annual interest then due upon, its Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bond (Series 1962), dated as of October 1, 1962, No. ......... .

.............................. Rector of the University of Virginia

.............................. State Treasurer of the State of Virginia

.............................. Comptroller of the State of Virginia

Section 203. The proceeds (including accrued interest) of the bonds shall be paid into the State Treasury and deposited to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Construction Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Construction Fund").

Section 204. In case any bond issued hereunder shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost, the Board shall cause to be executed a new bond of like date, number and tenor in exchange and substitution for and upon the cancellation of such mutilated bond and its interest coupons, if any, or in lieu of and in substitution for such bond and its coupons, if any, destroyed or lost, upon the holder's paying the reasonable expenses and charges of the Board in connection therewith and, in the case of a bond destroyed or lost, his filing with the Board evidence satisfactory to the Board that such bond and coupons, if any, were destroyed or lost, and of his ownership thereof, and furnishing the Board with indemnity satisfactory to the Board.

Section 301. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Construction Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Construction Fund"), to the credit of which there shall be deposited the proceeds of the bonds required to be so deposited by Section 203 of this resolution. The moneys in the Construction Fund shall be held in trust and applied to the payment of the cost of the Project and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the future security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided.

Section 302. Payment of the cost of the Project shall be made from the Construction Fund as provided by law.

Section 303. For the purposes of this resolution the cost of the Project may include, without intending thereby to limit or restrict or to extend any proper definition of such cost under any applicable laws or this resolution, the following:

(a) obligations incurred for labor and materials and to contractors, builders and materialmen in connection with the Project;

(b) interest accruing upon the bonds prior to and during construction of the Project;

(c) taxes or other municipal or governmental charges lawfully levied or assessed during construction upon the Project or any property acquired therefor, and premiums on insurance, if any, in connection with the Project during construction;

(d) fees and expenses of engineers and architects for surveys and estimates and other preliminary investigations, preparation of plans, drawings and specifications and supervising construction, as well as for the performance of all other duties of engineers and architects in relation to construction of the Project or the issuance of bonds therefor;

(e) expenses of administration properly chargeable to the Project, legal expenses and fees, financing charges, cost of audits and of preparing and issuing the bonds, and all other items of expense not elsewhere in this Section specified incident to the construction of the Project and the placing of the Project in operation;

(f) any obligation or expense heretofore or hereafter incurred by the Board or by any other agency of the State of Virginia for any of the foregoing purposes

Section 304. When the Project shall have been completed, as evidenced by a certificate signed by the President or the Comptroller of the Institution and filed with the Secretary to the Board, any balance in the Construction Fund not deemed by the Board to be necessary to be reserved and so reserved by it for the payment of any remaining part of the cost of the Project shall be transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund.

Section 401. The Board covenants that it will at all times fix, charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project, and that from time to time and as often as it shall appear to be necessary it will revise such fees, rents and charges in order that such fees, rents and charges will at all times be sufficient to provide for the payment of the Current Expenses and to provide for making deposits to the credit of the Sinking Fund in each fiscal year under the provisions of Section 404 of this Article of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on October 1 of such fiscal year and of the interest which will become due and payable on April 1 of such fiscal year

Section 402. Notwithstanding any other facilities which may now or hereafter be available for the housing of students at the Institution and subject to the parietal rules now in effect at the Institution as set forth in Section 402 of the resolution, adopted by the Board on June 1, 1962 (Minute Book, University of Virginia, No. 12, 1 June 1962, p. 339), authorizing the issuance of $3,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), the Board covenants that it will require a sufficient number of students at the Institution to use and occupy the Project and will adopt and enforce such parietal rules and other regulations as will assure that the Project will be fully utilized at all times during the regular school session at the Institution and will be utilized to the fullest extent practicable at all times during any summer school session at the Institution. The Board further covenants that there shall be no free student occupancy of the Project

Section 403. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Revenue Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Revenue Fund"). The Board covenants that all fees, rents, charges and other revenues derived from the operation or ownership of the Project will be collected by the Board and deposited to the credit of the Revenue Fund. Payment of Current Expenses shall be made from the Revenue Fund as provided by law.

Section 404. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) Interest and Sinking Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Sinking Fund"). The Board covenants that, on or before the 20th day of September in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on October 1 of such fiscal year and that, on or before the 20th day of March in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the interest which will become due and payable on April 1 of such fiscal year, provided, however, that if the amount so transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund in any September or March shall be less than the required amount, the requirement therefor shall nevertheless be cumulative and the amount of any deficiency in any September or March shall be added to the amount otherwise required to be transferred in each September or March thereafter until such time as such deficiency shall have been made up, and provided, further, that when the moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall equal the principal of the outstanding bonds and the interest which will become due and payable thereon to their respective maturities, no further transfer need be made to the credit of the Sinking Fund. The balance in the Revenue Fund, if any, after making any transfer under the provisions of this Section shall be used for the purposes of the Institution as provided by law

Section 405. Subject to the provisions of this resolution, moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied (a) to the payment of interest upon the bonds as such interest becomes due and payable, or (b) to the payment of the principal of the bonds at their respective maturities, and such moneys are hereby pledged to and charged with the payments mentioned in this Section

Section 406. The moneys in the Revenue Fund and the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied as hereinabove provided and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the further security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided

Section 407. All bonds and interest coupons shall be cancelled upon their payment. Such bonds and coupons may be cremated by the State Treasurer, who shall execute a certificate of cremation in duplicate describing the bonds and coupons so cremated except that the numbers of the bonds to which such coupons appertain may be omitted unless otherwise directed by the Board, and one executed certificate shall be filed with the Comptroller of the Institution and the other executed certificate shall be retained by the State Treasurer.

Section 501. Moneys held for the credit of the Construction Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in securities which are defined as legal investments for public funds or deposited and redeposited in interest bearing time deposits and certificates of deposit of national banks located within the State of Virginia and of banks organized pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ 6-5 et seq.) of Title 6, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, all as provided in and subject to the terms, limitations and conditions of Sections 298, 299 of Title 2, Chapter 17, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption or withdrawal by the holder or depositor thereof at the option of such holder or depositor, not later than ninety (90) days after the date of such investment or deposit

Moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in securities which are defined as legal investments for sinking funds in Section 297 of Title 2, Chapter 17, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption by the holder thereof at the option of such holder, not later than October 1, 1987.

Section 502. Obligations so purchased as an investment of moneys in any such Fund shall be deemed at all times to be a part of such Fund, and the interest accruing thereon and any profit realized from such investment shall be credited to such Fund, and any loss resulting from such investment shall be charged to such Fund. The State Treasurer shall sell at the best price obtainable or present for redemption any obligations so purchased whenever it shall be necessary so to do in order to provide moneys to meet any payment or transfer from any such Fund. Neither the State Treasurer nor the Board shall be liable or responsible for any loss resulting from any such investment

Section 601. The Board covenants that it will promptly pay the principal of and the interest on each and every bond issued under the provisions of this resolution at the place, on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in said bonds and in the coupons appertaining thereto, according to the true intent and meaning thereof. The principal and interest are payable solely from the revenues derived from the ownership or operation of the Project, which revenues are hereby pledged to the payment thereof in the manner and to the extent hereinabove particularly specified, and nothing in the bonds or in this resolution shall be deemed to constitute the bonds a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, nor shall the bonds ever be or become a charge against the State of Virginia

Section 602. The Board covenants that it will establish and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the use of the Project and the operation thereof, that all compensation, salaries, fees and wages paid by it in connection with the maintenance, repair and operation of the Project will be reasonable, that it will maintain and operate the Project in an efficient and economical manner, that, from the revenues of the Project, it will at all times maintain the same in good repair and in sound operating condition and will make all necessary repairs, renewals and replacements, that it will observe and perform all of the terms and conditions contained in the Act, and that it will comply with all valid acts, rules, regulations, orders and directions of any legislative, executive, administrative or judicial body applicable to the Project

Section 603. The Board covenants that it will not create or suffer to be created any lien or charge upon the Project or any part thereof or upon the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the lien and charge of the bonds secured hereby upon such revenues, and that, from such revenues or other available funds, it will pay or cause to be discharged, or will make adequate provision to satisfy and discharge, within sixty (60) days after the same shall accrue, all lawful claims and demands for labor, material, supplies or other objects which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the Project or any part thereof or the revenues therefrom, provided, however, that nothing in this Section contained shall require the Board to pay or cause to be discharged, or make provision for, any such lien or charge so long as the validity thereof shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate legal proceedings.

Section 604. Notwithstanding any other provision of this resolution, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Board from paying all or any part of the Current Expenses from any funds available to the Board for such purpose, or from depositing any funds available to the Board for such purpose in the Sinking Fund for the payment of the interest on or the principal of the bonds issued under the provisions of this resolution

Section 605. The Board covenants that from and after the time when the contractors or any of them engaged in constructing the Project or any part thereof shall cease to be responsible, pursuant to the provisions of the respective contracts for the construction of the Project or such part, for loss or damage to the Project or such part occurring from fire or lightning, it will insure and at all times keep the Project or such part insured with a responsible insurance company or companies, qualified to assume the risk thereof, against physical loss or damage caused by fire or lightning, with such exceptions as are ordinarily required by insurers of structures or facilities of similar type, in an amount not less than eighty per centum (80%) of the replacement value of the Project or such part, less depreciation, provided, however, that such amount of insurance shall at all times be sufficient to comply with any legal or contractual requirement which, if breached, would result in assumption by the Board of a portion of any loss or damage as a co-insurer, and such insurance may provide for the deduction from each claim for loss or damage (except in case of a total loss) of not more than two per centum (2%) of the total amount of insurance required by the application of the co-insurance clause, and provided, further, that if at any time the Board shall be unable to obtain such insurance to the extent above required, either as to amount of such insurance or as to the risks covered thereby or the deductible provision thereof, it will not constitute an event of default under the provisions of this resolution if the Board shall carry such insurance to the extent reasonably obtainable

The proceeds of such insurance shall be available for, and shall to the extent necessary be applied to, the repair, replacement or reconstruction of the damaged or destroyed property. If such proceeds are more than sufficient for such purpose, the balance remaining shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund. If such proceeds, with other available funds, shall be insufficient for such purpose, such proceeds shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund or shall be used to purchase bonds, as the Board by resolution may determine

Section 606. The Board covenants that no contract or contracts will be entered into or any action taken by which the rights of the bondholders might be impaired or diminished

Section 607. The Board covenants that it will keep an accurate record of the total cost of the Project, of the fees, rents, charges and other revenues collected, and of the application of such revenues. Such records shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspection of all interested persons

The Board further covenants that, if so requested in writing by any bondholder within the month of July after the close of any fiscal year, it will cause the Comptroller of the Institution to make a report from the books and accounts relating to the Project for the preceding fiscal year Within the next two months copies of such report shall be filed with the Secretary to the Board and the State Treasurer and shall be mailed by the Comptroller to all bondholders who shall have filed their names and addresses with the Comptroller for such purpose. Each such report shall set forth in respect of the preceding fiscal year an income and expense account for the Project, the percentage of use of the Project, the details of all bonds paid, the amount on deposit at the end of such fiscal year to the credit of each Fund created under the provisions of this resolution and the details of any investment thereof, a schedule of all insurance policies which are then in effect, stating with respect to each policy the name of the insurer, the amount, number and expiration date, and the hazards and risks covered thereby, and also the findings of the Comptroller as to whether the moneys received by the Board under the provisions of this resolution during such fiscal year have been applied in accordance with the provisions of this resolution and whether the Board is in default of any of the covenants contained in Sections 401 and 402 of this resolution

Section 608. The Board covenants that it will not sell or otherwise dispose of or encumber the Project or any part thereof and will not create or permit to be created any charge or lien on the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the charge or lien of the bonds secured hereby on such revenues. The Board may, however, sell or dispose or permit the sale or disposal by the Institution of any furniture, fixtures, apparatus, tools, instruments or other movable property acquired for or in connection with the Project or any materials used in connection therewith, if the Board shall determine by resolution that such articles are no longer needed or are no longer useful in connection with the construction of the Project or the operation and maintenance of the Project. The proceeds of any sale made under the authority of this Section shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund

Section 701. In case the time for the payment of any coupon shall be extended, whether or not such extension be by or with the consent of the Board, such coupon shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the benefit or security of this resolution except subject to the prior payment in full of the principal of all bonds then outstanding and of all coupons the time for the payment of which shall not have been extended

Section 702. Each of the following events is hereby declared an "event of default", that is to say. If

(a) payment of the principal of any of the bonds shall not be made when the same shall become due and payable, or

(b) payment of any instalment of interest shall not be made within thirty (30) days after the same shall become due and payable, or

(c) the Board shall for any reason be rendered incapable of fulfilling its obligations hereunder, or

(d) the Project or any part thereof shall be destroyed or damaged and shall not be promptly repaired, replaced or reconstructed (whether such failure be due to the impracticability of such repair, replacement or reconstruction or to lack of funds therefor or for any other reason), or

(e) final judgment for the payment of money shall be rendered against the Board as a result of its ownership or operation of the Project and any such judgment shall not be discharged within sixty (60) days from the entry thereof or an appeal shall not be taken therefrom or from the order, decree or process upon which or pursuant to which such judgment shall have been granted or entered, in such manner as to stay the execution of or levy under such judgment, order, decree or process or the enforcement thereof, or

(f) an order or decree shall be entered, with the consent or acquiescence of the Board, appointing a receiver or receivers of the Project or any part thereof or of the revenues thereof, or if such order or decree, having been entered without the acquiescence or consent of the Board, shall not be vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after entry thereof, or

(g) the Board shall default in the due and punctual performance of any other of the covenants, conditions, agreements and provisions contained in the bonds or in this resolution on the part of the Board to be performed, and such default shall continue for thirty (30) days after written notice specifying such default and requiring same to be remedied shall have been given to the Board by any bondholder

Section 703. Upon the happening and continuance of any event of default specified in Section 702 of this Article, then and in every such case any bondholder may proceed, subject to the provisions of Section 705 of this Article, to protect and enforce the rights of the bondholders by a suit, action or special proceeding in equity or at law, either for the specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein or in aid or execution of any power herein granted or for the enforcement of any proper legal or equitable remedy as such bondholder shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights

Section 704. In case any proceeding taken by any bondholder on account of any default shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Board and the bondholders shall be restored to their former positions and rights, respectively, and all rights and remedies of the bondholders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken

Section 705. No holder of any of the bonds shall have any right in any manner whatever to affect, disturb or prejudice the security of this resolution or to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and all proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained for the equal benefit of all bondholders.

Section 706. No remedy herein conferred on the bondholders is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every remedy conferred shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute.

Section 707. No delay or omission of any bondholder to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein, and every power and remedy given by this Article to the bondholders may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient

Section 801. All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board contained in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board to the full extent authorized or permitted by law, and all such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be binding upon the successor or successors thereof from time to time and upon any officer, board, body or commission to whom or to which any power or duty affecting such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be transferred by or in accordance with law

No covenants, stipulation, obligation or agreement herein contained shall be deemed to be a covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of any present or future member, agent or employee of the Board in his individual capacity, and neither the Governor of the State of Virginia nor the members of the Board or of any other agency of the State of Virginia nor any officer thereof, present or future, executing the bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof

Section 802. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other instrument authorized or required by this resolution to be given to or filed with the Board shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or filed for all purposes of this resolution if and when sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia

Section 803. The officers and agents of the Board are hereby authorized and directed to do all acts and things required of them by the provisions of the bonds and this resolution for the full, punctual and complete performance of all the terms, covenants, provisions and agreements contained in the bonds and this resolution

Section 804. In case any one or more of the provisions of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons issued hereunder shall for any reason be held to be illegal or invalid, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons, but this resolution and the bonds and coupons shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had not been contained therein. In case any covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement contained in the bonds or in this resolution shall for any reason be held to be in violation of law, then such covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement shall be deemed to be the covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of the Board to the full extent permitted by law.

Section 805. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor and the Treasury Board

A vote being taken, said resolution was adopted by the following recorded vote. Ayes: Albert V. Bryan, Norborne Berkeley, William M. Camp, Hunter Faulconer, Charles R. Fenwick, Joseph M. Hartfield, Walkley E. Johnson, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Walter B. Martin, E. Sclater Montague, Herbert C. Pollock, Frank W. Rogers, and Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Nays: None

Mr. Hartfield made a motion, seconded by Mr. Johnson, that the following resolution be adopted

A RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE SALE OF $1,200,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1962)

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board") has this day duly adopted a resolution authorizing the issuance of $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), and

WHEREAS, the Board deems it advisable to sell said bonds at this time, now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 1. The State Treasurer of the State of Virginia is hereby authorized and directed to solicit bids from various financial and investment banking institutions in the State of Virginia, and from such other institutions which may express an interest in bidding for the bonds, for the purchase of the $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962). Sealed bids are to be received for and on behalf of the Board at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, until 12 o'clock Noon, Eastern Standard Time, October 2, 1962, at which time and place the bids received will be publicly opened and read on behalf of the Board

No bid for less than all of the bonds or for less than par and accrued interest will be entertained. Bidders are requested to name the interest rate, not exceeding 6% per annum, in a multiple of 1/8 or 1/20 of 1%. The bonds will be awarded to the bidder offering the highest price for the lowest interest rate bid upon the bonds.

Each bid must be submitted on a form to be furnished by the State Treasurer, must be enclosed in a sealed envelope marked "Bid for $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962)", and should be addressed to the "Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, c/o State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, Room 101, Finance Building, Richmond, Virginia". Each bid must be accompanied by a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia in an amount equal to $24,000. Award or rejection of bids will be made by the Board on the date above stated for the receipt of bids, and the checks of unsuccessful bidders will be returned immediately. The award of the bonds will be subject to the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia. The check of the successful bidder will be held uncashed as security for the performance of his bid, but, in the event the successful bidder shall fail to comply with the terms of his bid, the check may then be cashed and the proceeds retained as and for full liquidated damages. The bonds will be delivered on or about November 5, 1962, in the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia

The unqualified approving opinion of Mitchell, Pershing, Shetterly & Mitchell, New York City, will be furnished without cost to the purchasers. There will also be furnished the usual closing papers, including a certificate, dated as of the day of the delivery of the bonds, stating that there is no litigation pending or, to the knowledge of the signer of such certificate, threatened affecting the validity of the bonds

Further information relating to the above bonds will be furnished upon application to the State Treasurer

The right to reject any or all bids is reserved by the Board

Section 2. The form referred to in Section 1 above and on which all bids for the purchase of the $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) are required to be made shall be substantially as follows

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on September 29, 1962, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Dollars ($ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), dated as of October 1, 1962, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $24,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordance with said resolutions

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

(No addition or alteration, except as provided above, is to be made to this bid.)

Section 3. The officers and agents of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and of the University of Virginia are hereby authorized and directed to do all the acts and things required of them by the bonds and by this resolution, for the full, punctual and complete performance of all the terms, convenants, provisions and agreements contained in the bonds and in this resolution

Section 4. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor and the Treasury Board.

A vote being taken, said resolution was adopted by the following recorded vote. Ayes: Albert V. Bryan, Norborne Berkeley, William M. Camp, Hunter Faulconer, Charles R. Fenwick, Joseph M. Hartfield, Walkley E. Johnson, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Walter B. Martin, E. Sclater Montague, Herbert C. Pollock, Frank W. Rogers, and Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Nays: None

The President called the Board's attention to the resolution adopted on 10 June 1955 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 11, 10 June 1955, pp. 423-424) establishing a retirement policy for the University at Charlottesville. He explained that the 1955 resolution was out of date because of changes in the titles of certain positions since 1955. He believed that the time was now appropriate for re-adopting the resolution in order to bring it up to date

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1962, the age of 70 be and it is hereby prescribed as the mandatory retirement age for members of the faculty of the University at Charlottesville, that, upon the initiative either of the President or of the professor concerned, any professor aged 65 or over may be retired or may have his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, reduced to an amount that is appropriate in each particular case,

RESOLVED further that the age of 65 be and it is hereby fixed as the retirement age for the President, the Comptroller, and other administrative officers, and that deans and chairmen of departments be retired at age 65 from their administrative positions even though their teaching duties may continue either in whole or in part, and

RESOLVED further that the University's retirement policy as set forth in this resolution shall be presented to future employees of the University at the time of election or appointment and accepted by them as a condition of employment

In connection with the resolution just passed, the President noted that the community colleges of the University had been established since 1955 and that the same retirement policy should prevail for those colleges as for the divisions at Charlottesville.

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1962, the age of 70 be and it is hereby prescribed as the mandatory retirement age for members of the faculty at Clinch Valley College, George Mason College, and such other community colleges as may be established in the future, that, upon the initiative either of the President or of the professor concerned, any professor aged 65 or over may be retired or may have his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, reduced to an amount that is appropriate in each particular case,

RESOLVED further that the age of 65 be and it is hereby fixed as the retirement age for the Chancellor for Community Colleges, directors, and other administrative officers, and that deans and chairmen of departments be retired at age 65 from their administrative positions even though their teaching duties may continue either in whole or in part, and

RESOLVED further that the community colleges' retirement policy as set forth in this resolution shall be presented to future employees of the colleges at the time of election or appointment and accepted by them as a condition of employment.

In the absence of the President, the Board engaged in a discussion of the salary of the President of the University. The discussion brought out the facts that the present salary of the President was established in 1959 at the rate of $20,000 a year and that the Governor authorized, effective 1 July 1962, an increase of $1,000 bringing the total salary from State funds to $21,000 per year. The discussion revealed a consensus that the salary was not adequate and that an increase in the salary to $22,500 should be made

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has been concerned about the present salary and benefits accruing to the President of the University of Virginia, which consist of a salary of $21,000 from the State and the occupancy of Carr's Hill on a rent-free basis,

AND WHEREAS it is our belief that this salary and the rent-free use of Carr's Hill are not sufficient compensation for the high office and the heavy responsibilities of the President of the University of Virginia,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1962, the annual salary of the President of the University of Virginia shall be $22,500, of which $21,000 is to be paid by the State and $1,500 from endowment funds, and that the President shall continue to occupy Carr's Hill on a rent-free basis

The President reviewed the progress that had been made in the preparation of long-range plans for the University. He noted that he had received a report from the University Long-Range Planning Committee on its work for the academic session of 1961-1962 and that certain proposals in that study were now under review for possible action. He also stated that he had appointed a committee to prepare for his consideration a master plan for the University to guide the future physical growth of the University. In connection with another matter, he distributed to the Board and discussed a letter he had sent to the members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences concerning certain changes which had been made in the administrative structure of that faculty. Finally, he alluded to an institutional self-study which was to be launched in the near future and which was to be the subject of a resolution to be proposed as the next item of business

The President stated that the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires of its members that they conduct an institutional self-study at intervals of approximately 10 years. The time was at hand, the President reported, for the University to conduct such a study. He believed that the Board should give its full endorsement of the study and accordingly proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby endorse the institutional self-study as required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and authorize the President to provide for the conduct of the study, beginning in the fall of 1962.

The President presented a detailed report on admissions and enrollment for the academic year 1962-1963. He noted that the approximate growth of 300 students per year, which had been experienced for the academic years of 1959-1960 and 1960-1961, had also held true for the academic session of 1962-1963 which had just begun.

The President reported in detail on the current status of the construction program. He distributed a statement showing the current status of the several construction projects and described some of the difficulties and delays that had been encountered. Following the President's presentation, the Board engaged in a lengthy discussion of these delays and discussed ways and means of expediting the construction program. One particular difficulty that had been encountered was the delay in the construction of University Hall. At the end of the discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby requested to secure from the Architects for University Hall a detailed explanation in writing as to the reasons for the delay in the preparation of the plans and specifications for the project and also an account of the number of persons working specifically on these plans

The President reported on certain changes that have been made in the facilities at Scott Stadium and in the arrangements that had been devised for handling the anticipated larger crowds at football games.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1079, 1080, 1083, 1084, 1087, 1088, 1091, 1092, 1093, 1096, 1097, 1100, 1101, 1103, 1104, 1106, and 1107, aggregating $345,597.33, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President recalled to the Board's attention some previous discussions that had been held concerning the standing committee structure of the Board. He noted that the present standing committee structure consisted of the following: (1) Executive Committee, (2) Finance Committee, (3) Buildings and Grounds Committee, (4) Mary Washington College Committee, (5) Medical Committee, and (6) Athletics Committee. He stated he had come to the conclusion that an additional committee was needed which would concern itself with educational policy in all divisions of the University including those at Charlottesville and elsewhere. Such a committee would, in his opinion, be most helpful in reviewing present educational policies and in considering future changes in that policy, including the establishment of new and the alteration of existing programs.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 October 1962, there is hereby established a standing committee of the Board to be known as the Committee on Educational Policy.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Agreement between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, Surviving Trustee u/w of Robert Coleman Taylor, and others, settling account in the matter of the First and Final Account of Proceedings of Lillian Gary Taylor and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, as Trustees under the Last Will and Testament of Robert Coleman Taylor, to be filed in the Surrogate's Court County of New York, be and the same is hereby, approved, in the form as submitted to this meeting.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and directed to execute such Agreement in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and that the Secretary be and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the institution thereto and to attest the same

The President reported that efforts were being made to strengthen the work being done in Astronomy and noted that new equipment and facilities would be needed if the University was to have a first-class program in that field. He stated his intentions to apply for a grant to match University funds to provide for this new equipment and facilities and stated further that the Buildings and Grounds Committee, at its meeting on 28 September 1962, had approved his proposal for the purchase of land for this project.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to set aside $75,000 from non-State funds to be used to match a National Science Foundation grant of at least $75,000 for equipment and facilities for the Department of Astronomy

The President reminded the Board of the report of the Committee on Fall-Out Protection which he had presented and discussed at the meeting on 1 June 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 1 June 1962, p. 334). He noted that the construction items recommended in that report would cost approximately $55,000 and that no funds were available for that purpose. He stated his intention to consult the State Director of the Budget to see if funds were available for allocation by the Governor. If not, he said he would request these funds from the General Assembly in the next biennial budget

The President reported that the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, acting on behalf of the University of Virginia as its representative with respect to the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent, had executed two instruments dated 18 June 1962 and 28 June 1962, respectively, which instruments had also been executed by or on behalf of The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, Trinity Church, Mildred Saffold Vincent and Frank B. Hayne, conveying a pipeline right-of-way to Creole Gas Pipeline Corporation over lands in St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana, acquired from the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent. These instruments provided for a nominal payment of $100.00 for such right-of-way but further provided that if Creole Gas Pipeline Corporation lays a pipeline in such right-of-way it would pay an additional sum of $15,030.00, to be paid before the line is laid, and if it lays an additional line in said right-of-way it would pay an additional sum of $15,030.00 therefor within 60 days subsequent to the completion of construction of such additional line. If payment for the first line was not made within four months from 18 June 1962, date of the first instrument, the grant of rights-of-way would thereupon cease and determine

The interested parties have been notified by Creole Gas Pipeline Corporation that it desires to begin to lay the first pipeline provided for in the Agreements and is ready to pay the sum of $15,030.00 therefor. However, Creole Gas Pipeline Corporation, before doing so, has requested that the action of Judge Borah on behalf of the University of Virginia in executing the instruments dated 18 June and 28 June 1962, be ratified and approved by this Board

It was pointed out by the President that the sum of $15,030.00 to be paid for the first pipeline represented a payment of $10.00 per rod and the grant of such right-of-way at this price was advantageous to the Vincent Succession. He then presented photostatic copies of the two instruments in question for consideration

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded the following resolution was adopted

BE IT RESOLVED that the action of the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, on behalf of the University of Virginia, in executing those certain instruments dated 18 June 1962 and 28 June 1962, together with The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, Trinity Church, Mildred Saffold Vincent and Frank B. Hayne, conveying a pipeline right-of-way to Creole Gas Pipeline Corporation over lands in St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana, acquired from the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent, No. 304-985 C.D.C., Orleans Parish, which right-of-way instruments are recorded in 82 Fo. 453 of the Conveyance Records of St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana, is hereby ratified and approved

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. William F. Barker as Visiting Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $9,100.

Miss Beverly J. Davis as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Mrs. Margaret Sue Early as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary rate of $5,900, the actual salary to be determined by the number of classes taught.

Mr. Lloyd P. Farrar as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Miss Annie Lancri as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,300.

Mr. Urban W. Ludwig as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,400.

Mrs. Jean Mae Nazzaro as Instructor in Psychology, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary rate of $5,300, the actual salary to be determined by the number of classes taught.

Mr. Robert M. Rennick as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Mr. Glen R. Thomas as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,500.

Mrs. Martha J. Watts as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,300.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the elections of the following persons to the faculty be and they are hereby cancelled:

Miss Rochelle Bernand as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for the 1962-1963 session.

Miss Ellen B. Wood as Instructor in Art, for the 1962-1963 session

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mrs. Lydia B. Fauls as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200.

Mrs. Helen L. Sehrt as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (three-fourths time), for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,325.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence

Mrs. Eileen K. Dodd, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Psychology, without pay, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, to accompany her husband, who will be Visiting Professor of Economics in Hong Kong for one year under the Smith-Mundt Act

The President reminded the Board of its action at the meeting on 1 June 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 1 June 1962, p. 347) in granting a leave of absence to Mr. Julien Binford, Professor of Art, for the 1962-1963 session, at one-fourth salary, $2,675. In order that his leave might be on the same basis as others granted leave for the same purpose, the President requested that the compensation be not to exceed $5,350

Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by the Board at its meeting on 1 June 1962 relating to the leave of absence of Mr. Julien Binford, Professor of Art, be and it is hereby amended and re-enacted as follows

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Julien Binford, Professor of Art, be and he is hereby granted leave of absence for the 1962-1963 session, at up to one-half salary of $5,350, subject to the determination and approval of the President

The President announced the following appointments

Mr. G. Preston Burns as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Samuel T. Emory as Chairman of the Department of Geography and Geology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Harry W. Hewetson as Chairman of the Department of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. J. Russell Nazzaro and Mrs. Mary A. K. Kelly as Co-Chairmen of the Department of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, during the period of Mrs. E. K. Dodd's leave of absence

Mr. Russell S. Ratcliffe as Chairman of the Department of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1962

Mr. Mark Sumner as Chairman of the Department of Drama, for one year, effective 1 September 1962.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Wright, Jones, and Wilkerson, of Richmond, Virginia, as architects for the new dormitory at Mary Washington College

The President stated his belief that the retirement policy should be uniform for all divisions of the University and accordingly proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1962, the age of 70 be and it is hereby prescribed as the mandatory retirement age for members of the faculty at Mary Washington College, that, upon the initiative either of the Chancellor or of the professor concerned, any professor aged 65 or over may be retired or may have his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, reduced to an amount that is appropriate in each particular case,

RESOLVED further that the age of 65 be and it is hereby fixed as the retirement age for the Chancellor, the Bursar, and other administrative officers, and that deans and chairmen of departments be retired at age 65 from their administrative positions even though their teaching duties may continue either in whole or in part, and

RESOLVED further that the College's retirement policy as set forth in this resolution shall be presented to future employees of the College at the time of election or appointment and accepted by them as a condition of employment.

The President reported that a gift of 200 shares of du Pont stock and $1,000 in cash had been made to Mary Washington College for the purpose of establishing two scholarships. He stated that he and Chancellor Simpson had written letters of appreciation to Mrs. Bowley but he also believed that a resolution by the Board concerning this gift would be in order. Accordingly, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS Mrs. Albert J. Bowley has made a gift to Mary Washington College of 200 shares of du Pont stock and $1,000 in cash for the support of two scholarships,

AND WHEREAS these scholarships will be most useful to the College by enabling it to provide additional financial assistance to worthy students,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby express our grateful thanks to Mrs. Bowley for her generous gift and as a mark of our deep appreciation direct the Secretary on our behalf to send a copy of this resolution to Mrs. Bowley

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Willis H. Austin as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1962, at an annual salary of $7,100

Mr. Aldis B. Hatch as Associate Professor of Modern Languages, effective 1 September 1962, at an annual salary of $8,100

Mr. John S. MacKenzie as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,800

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Lecturer in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $7,100

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Charles D. Story as Lecturer in Political Science, for one year, part-time, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,700

Mr. George M. Van Sant as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,925

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Richard L. Clark as Assistant Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $2,250.

Mrs. Regina T. Ryan as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,600

Mr. Benjamin W. Wright, Jr. as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Miss Mary P. Adams as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $6,200

Mr. Thomas H. Carter as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $5,900

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. James B. Davis as Instructor in English, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,550.

Mr. James S. Noblitt as Instructor in French, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,550.

Mr. Carlton B. Smith as Instructor in History, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $1,550

Mrs. Lucille S. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $3,550

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:25 p.m.

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on September 29, 1962, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Dollars ($ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), dated as of October 1, 1962, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $24,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordance with said resolutions

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on September 29, 1962, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Dollars ($ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ ), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), dated as of October 1, 1962, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $24,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordance with said resolutions

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
