---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1962'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1962) October 2, 1962
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 2, 1962

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTION AWARDING STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDS
-------------------------------------------------------------

Year of Maturity

Principal Amount

1964

$30,000

1965

35,000

1966

35,000

1967

35,000

1968

40,000

1969

40,000

1970

40,000

1971

40,000

1972

45,000

1973

45,000

1974

45,000

1975

50,000

1976

$50,000

1977

50,000

1978

55,000

1979

55,000

1980

55,000

1981

60,000

1982

60,000

1983

65,000

1984

65,000

1985

65,000

1986

70,000

1987

70,000

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date for a called meeting at 12:00 Noon in the Office of the State Treasurer, Room 101, Finance Building, Richmond, Virginia, with the following present: Visitors Blanton, Camp, Faulconer, Fenwick, Johnson, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Martin, Montague, and Walker. Absent: Rector Albert V. Bryan; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Berkeley, Hartfield, Pollock, Rogers, and Wilkerson.

In the absence of the Rector, the Board elected Mr. Blanton to preside at this called meeting.

Mr. Johnson made a motion, seconded by Mr. Faulconer, that the following resolution be adopted:

A RESOLUTION AWARDING $1,200,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA STUDENT APARTMENT BUILDINGS REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1962)

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 1. Pursuant to the resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia duly adopted on September 29, 1962, the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia solicited bids to be received for and on behalf of the Board at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, until 12 o'clock Noon, Eastern Standard Time, October 2, 1962, for the purchase of $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962), dated October 1, 1962, maturing annually, October 1, in the following years and in the following amounts, respectively

at which hour bidding was closed and the following bids were found to have been filed and to accord in all respects to the terms of said resolution, each bid offering to pay accrued interest and enclosing a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $24,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia

(1) Bid of F. W. Craigie & Co. and Associates offering to pay $1,204,260 and accrued interest for said bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3.30 per centum per annum

(2) Bid of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. and Associates offering to pay $1,200,836.40 and accrued interest for said bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3.30 per centum per annum

(3) Bid of J. C. Wheat & Co. and Associates offering to pay $1,207,223 and accrued interest for said bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3-3/8 per centum per annum

Section 2. The bid offering to purchase the bonds at the highest price for the lowest interest rate bid upon the bonds was the bid of F. W. Craigie & Co. and Associates offering to pay $1,204,260 and accrued interest for said bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3.30% per annum

Section 3. Said bid of F. W. Craigie & Co. and Associates is hereby accepted and said $1,200,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Student Apartment Buildings Revenue Bonds (Series 1962) are hereby awarded to F. W. Craigie & Co. and Associates at the price offered for said bonds bearing interest at the rate of 3.30 per centum per annum. This award is subject to the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia. Delivery of said bonds is to be made on or about November 5, 1962 in the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia

Section 4. The checks of unsuccessful bidders shall be returned immediately

Section 5. All steps necessary to carry this resolution into effect shall be taken by the proper officers of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and of the University of Virginia

Section 6. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia

A vote being taken, said resolution was adopted by the following recorded vote. Ayes: Thomas H. Blanton, William M. Camp, Hunter Faulconer, Charles R. Fenwick, Walkley E. Johnson, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Raynell Goodman Lantor, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Walter B. Martin, E. Sclater Montague, and Lewis M. Walker. Nays: None

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:15 p.m.
