---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1963'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
ELECTIONSELECTION OF MR. MARK G. FOSTER AS WILLS JOHNSON PROFESSOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERINGTHE ROBLEY DUNGLISON PROFESSORSHIP OF BIOCHEMISTRYELECTION OF MR. HENRY A. HARBURY AS ROBLEY DUNGLISON PROFESSOR OF BIOCHEMISTRYTHE UNION BAG-CAMP PROFESSORSHIP OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERINGELECTION OF MR. VINCENT W. UHL AS UNION BAG-CAMP PROFESSOR OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERINGRE-ELECTIONPROMOTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSVIRGINIA INSTITUTE OF MARINE SCIENCEPREPARATION OF MANUAL FOR BOARD OF VISITORSREPORT OF THE PRESIDENTREPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEEREPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCESREPORT ON BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST FOR 1964-1966PURCHASE OF DUKE PROPERTYSUCCESSION OF HUGH E. VINCENTPORTRAIT OF BARRON FOSTER BLACK, FORMER RECTORPURCHASE OF SITE FOR NEW OBSERVATORYSTAFF AND HEADQUARTERS OF THE RADIO ASTRONOMY OBSERVATORY OF THE ASSOCIATED UNIVERSITIES, INC.WALLOPS ISLAND BRANCHMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSCANCELLATION OF ELECTIONCHANGE OF STATUS AND TITLERESIGNATIONADDITIONAL GIFT BY MRS. ALBERT J. BOWLEYCONSTRUCTION OF NEW DORMITORYLOCATION OF CITY RESERVOIRANNUAL LIBRARY REPORTBIENNIAL BUDGET REQUESTADMISSIONS FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR 1963-1964CHANCELLOR SIMPSON'S EDUCATIONAL MISSION TO INDIACLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONRE-ELECTIONSGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCELYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONMADISON CENTER MATTERSELECTIONSROANOKE CENTER MATTERSELECTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 88,413.87

Free service to Counties and Cities

263,560.25

Total

$351,974.12

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 3:00 p.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: Rector Albert V. Bryan; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Blanton, Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Rogers, Walker, and Williams. Absent: Visitors Martin and Wilkerson. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 7 June 1963, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Thomas F. Bergin as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $11,100.

Mr. Giovanni Bognetti as Visiting Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $9,600.

Mr. David G. Bress as Lecturer in Law, part time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $750.

Mr. William P. Buffum as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $8,500.

Mr. Chun-shu Chang as Lecturer in History, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $3,450.

Mr. Jack H. Dillard as Lecturer in Engineering English, part time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $1,100.

Mr. Joel W. Evans as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $6,300.

Mr. Andre Gabor as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $5,500.

Mr. Lawrence D. Gaughan as Instructor in Law, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $3,150.

Dr. George R. Hanna as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 July 1963, at a salary of $13,000.

Mr. George M. Herndon as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,500.

Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Lecturer in Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $4,550.

Mr. Dumond P. Hill as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $750

Mr. James W. Jobes, Jr. as Junior Instructor in Philosophy, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,800

Miss Deanna L. Jones as Junior Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 9 September 1963.

Miss Mary E. Joyner as Lecturer in Modern Languages (French), part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,000

Mr. James J. Kauzlarich as Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $15,000

Mrs. Francesca Vidale Langbaum as Junior Instructor in Modern Languages (Italian), part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,300

Mr. Monroe Leigh as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $750.

Mrs. Alice Leng as Lecturer in Modern Languages (Chinese), part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,100.

Mr. David W. Lewis as Acting Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $10,100

Mr. Ludo Mertens as Junior Instructor in Modern Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $5,600

Mr. Arthur B. Scharff as Instructor in Modern Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $6,000.

Mr. Ronald P. Sokol as Lecturer in Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,500

Mr. Brian M. Spicer as Visiting Professor of Physics, for six months, effective 1 February 1964, for which he will be paid for teaching during the second semester of the 1963-1964 academic session

Miss Catherine Sturtevant as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective 1 October 1963, at a session salary of $7,300 plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of $8,760

Mr. William H. Tarwater, Jr. as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $8,500.

Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen as John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $21,000, of which $15,000 is to be paid from the State and $6,000 from local funds

Mr. Frank R. Woods as Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $10,600.

Mr. John H. Wright as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1963

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Mark G. Foster be and he is hereby elected Wills Johnson Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 July 1960

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Robley Dunglison Professorship of Biochemistry

Robley Dunglison (1798-1869), one of the greatest physicians and teachers of the 19th century, was appointed by Thomas Jefferson as the University of Virginia's first Professor of Medicine, a post which he held from 1825 to 1833. He was the first Secretary of the Faculty and its second Chairman. A native of Keswick, England, and a graduate of English and German universities, he was a prolific editor and author of medical works published in Europe and America. Subsequent to 1833 he taught at the University of Maryland, and from 1836 until his death was Professor of Medicine at the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia, where he was also Dean of the Faculty. Among his many honors was the vice presidency of the American Philosophical Society. He was personal physician to President Jefferson, President Madison, and President Monroe, and attended the three statesmen in their terminal illnesses.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Henry A. Harbury be and he is hereby elected Robley Dunglison Professor of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1964, at a salary of $25,000, of which $6,000 is to be paid from local funds

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established, effective 1 September 1963, a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the Union Bag-Camp Professorship of Chemical Engineering.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Vincent W. Uhl be and he is hereby elected Union Bag-Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 1 September 1963.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 January 1964

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made

Mrs. Beauty Crummette, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1963.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, leave of absence from the position of Dean of the School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1963, for reasons of health.

Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, without pay, to complete his book

Mr. Donald M. Miller, Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, without pay, to work on a research project, which is being sponsored by the United States Office of Education at the University of Wisconsin

Mr. John W. Mitchell, Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, without pay, to become Director of the National Chemical Laboratory in London, England

Mr. Frederick D. Nichols, Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, without pay, to do research in England under a Guggenheim Fellowship

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Miss Mary A. MacDougall, from Lecturer in Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Roger L. Ransom, from Lecturer in Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $8,500

Mr. Robert C. Regan, from Assistant Professor of English, to Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1963.

Dr. Catherine M. Russell, from Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, to Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology and Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective 1 September 1963.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated

Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein, Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $21,000, of which $6,000 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Osvaldo Chinchon, Instructor in Modern Languages (Spanish), at a session salary of $6,300, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. James W. Cole, Jr., Professor of Chemistry and Dean of the School of General Studies, at a session salary of $13,400 plus 20 per cent for summer work and 15 per cent for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Almand R. Coleman, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $15,800, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Rowland A. Egger, Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of $17,700, of which $3,500 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1963

Dr. Alto E. Feller, Professor of Microbiology, at a salary of $22,000, of which $2,000 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Leo M. Hall, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of $10,300, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Walter L. Heilbronner, Associate Professor of Modern Languages (German), at a salary of $500 for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of $9,100, effective 1 February 1964

Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $12,600, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of $12,700, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Leonard Levine, Assistant Professor of Physiology, at a salary of $10,000, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of $14,750, of which $1,000 is to be paid for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Everard W. Meade, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of $12,600, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Instructor in Business Administration, at a session salary of $3,000, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Donald H. Miller, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a salary of $375, for one semester, for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $14,200, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Morris E. Rose, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $16,600, of which $2,400 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. William Rotch, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Charles S. Sargent, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $7,900, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Clyde R. Smith, Instructor in Business Administration, at a session salary of $6,900, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. David S. Smith, Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $8,700, of which $800 is to be paid from local funds for administrative duties, for three years, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $12,600, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Abraham W. Zelomek, Visiting Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $6,000, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Klaus O. H. Ziock, Associate Professor of Physics and Acting Director of the Virginia Associated Research Center, at a session salary of $10,100 plus 20 per cent for summer work and 15 per cent for administrative duties, effective 1 September 1963.

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Albert Altman, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 30 June 1963, because of personal reasons.

Dr. Antonio Antunez, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective 1 October 1963, to accept a position with the Cleveland Clinic

Mr. Edward B. Gordon, Lecturer in Business Administration, effective 30 June 1963, to continue his research.

Mr. Sydney P. Hodkinson, Assistant Professor of Music, effective 30 June 1963, to accept a position in the School of Music at Ohio University.

Dr. Phyllis R. Ingram, Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective 31 August 1963, to accept a position at the University of Miami's School of Medicine.

Mr. John J. Kennedy, Professor of Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1964, to accept a position at the University of Notre Dame

Dr. Edward Majchrowicz, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective 30 September 1963, to accept a position elsewhere

Mr. Robert E. Nelson, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 31 August 1963, to accept a position in public education in California.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointment

Lieutenant Russell V. Mowery as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective 1 September 1963, at no salary from the University.

The President also announced the following appointments

Dr. McLemore Birdsong as Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1963

Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell as Acting Dean of the School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1963

Mr. Henry A. Harbury as Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1964

Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr. as Chairman of the Department of Marine Science, for the period 19 October 1963 through 30 June 1968

Mr. John Herring as Director of Newcomb Hall, effective 15 August 1963.

Mr. James J. Kauzlarich as Chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. James E. Kinard as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective 1 July 1963

Mr. Edward W. Lautenschlager as Registrar of the University, for three years, effective 1 July 1963

Mr. Robert W. McGilvery as Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1963

Dr. George R. Minor as Assistant Dean of the School of Medicine, for the period 15 September 1963 through 30 June 1964.

Mr. J. James Murray, Jr. as Director of the Mountain Lake Biological Station, for one year, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. Vincent W. Uhl as Chairman of the Department of Chemical Engineering, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for five years, effective 1 September 1963.

Mr. David A. Williams as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences for Echols-Humphreys Association, for one year, effective 1 July 1963

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia in 1962 (Acts of Assembly, 1962, Chap. 406, Secs. 28.1-195 and 28.1-197) authorized the Virginia Institute of Marine Science to "engage in research in the marine sciences and, with proper affiliation with one or more accredited institutions of higher learning, provide education therein," and provided further that "The use of Institute personnel in educational programs shall be subject to approval of the educational affiliates concerned.",

WHEREAS the Board of Administration of the Virginia Institute of Marine Science has officially requested affiliation with the University of Virginia for the purpose of providing education and research in the field of Marine Science,

WHEREAS the President has approved a recommendation by the Graduate Committee of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences that such affiliation be approved,

WHEREAS it is a necessary condition of such affiliation that the members of the staff of the Virginia Institute of Marine Science participating in such educational and research programs become members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of the University of Virginia,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the staff of the Virginia Institute of Marine Science be and they are hereby elected, effective 1 September 1963, to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, at no salary from the University and without change in salary or benefits in their present positions in the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, to the rank and for the term noted

Mr. Jay D. Andrews, Associate Professor of Marine Science.

Mr. Robert E. L. Black, Lecturer in Marine Science, for one year.

Mr. Morris L. Brehmer, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. William J. Davis, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., Professor of Marine Science

Mr. Philip W. Harrison, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

Mr. Ralph R. Hathaway, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

Mr. Dexter S. Haven, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

Mr. Edwin B. Joseph, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

Mr. George Moskovits, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. Maynard M. Nichols, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. John J. Norcross, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. Dean P. Owens, Instructor in Marine Science, for one year

Mr. Willard A. Van Engel, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years

Mr. Junius E. Warriner, Instructor in Marine Science, for one year

Mr. Marvin Wass, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

Mr. John L. Wood, Associate Professor of Marine Science.

Mr. Langley H. Wood, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years.

The Rector called to the attention of the Board the existence of a Manual for the Board of Visitors, which was in effect from 12 September 1947 to 8 October 1960, when the Manual was rescinded by the Board because it was out of date, and in some parts misleading in its contents. The Rector recommended the appointment of a special committee of the Board of Visitors to oversee the preparation of a revised Manual and to submit its recommendations, along with a proposed draft of the new Manual, to the Board for its consideration and approval. Under this proposal, the committee will be authorized to obtain such professional assistance as it might deem necessary

The Rector, therefore, proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that

(1) There is hereby established a special committee of the Board of Visitors to be known as the Manual Committee, which shall consist of four members of the Board, to be appointed by the Rector, and the President ex officio,

(2) The Committee is hereby authorized to seek such professional assistance as it may deem necessary, and to pay the cost of such services from funds allocated to the Board,

(3) The Secretary of the Board shall serve as Secretary of the Manual Committee, and

(4) The Manual Committee is hereby directed to submit its proposed draft of a Manual to the full Board not later than the October meeting in 1964

The President reported in detail on the major developments of the past several months Specifically, he presented individual reports on and discussed enrollment, construction, admissions for the academic year 1963-1964, key additions to the faculty and administrative staff of the University, and other related matters

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1163, 1164, 1167, 1168, 1170A, 1171, 1174, and 1175, aggregating $351,974.12, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President reported in detail on the present financial condition of the Department of Athletics, including an account of the current deficit

The President presented and discussed the 1964-1966 biennial budget request which he had made to the Governor and General Assembly. Following the discussion which ensued, the report was ordered to be accepted and filed with the records of this meeting.

The President reported that the purchase of the two tracts of land containing 102.186 acres and 14.069 acres respectively, making up the Sunnyside tract owned by Mary White Duke and the Estate of the late Cammann C. Duke, had been completed on August 22, 1963 by the delivery to the University of two deeds, one from Mary White Duke and from the Executors of Cammann C. Duke, each conveying an undivided one-half interest in the two tracts of land. The consideration for each conveyance was $195,000.00. In accordance with the provisions of the contract with Mrs. Duke, the University paid her $55,500.00 in cash and delivered to her its nine unsecured 5% bonds for $15,500.00 each, maturing one to nine years after date. Under similar provisions of the contract with the Executors of Cammann C. Duke, the University paid to the Estate $51,000.00 in cash and delivered to the Executors its nine unsecured 5% bonds for $16,000.00 each, maturing one to nine years after date. All of these bonds were executed on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by Vincent Shea, its Comptroller, and the seal of the University was affixed and attested thereon by Weldon Cooper, Secretary.

It was suggested that, in order to prevent any question arising as to the validity of such execution, the actions of the Comptroller and Secretary should be ratified and confirmed by the Board

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions of Vincent Shea, Comptroller, in executing in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and of Weldon Cooper, Secretary, in affixing and attesting the seal of the University to, nine unsecured bonds in the principal sum of $15,500.00 each, dated August 22, 1963, payable to Mary White Duke, bearing interest at 5% per annum and maturing one to nine years after date respectively, said bonds aggregating $139,500.00, and in executing nine unsecured bonds in the principal sum of $16,000.00 each, also dated August 22, 1963, payable to Virginia National Bank and Mary White Duke, Executors and Trustees u/w of Cammann C. Duke, bearing interest at 5% per annum and also maturing one to nine years after date, respectively, aggregating $144,000.00 which said bonds were evidencing deferred purchase money, and were executed and delivered in accordance with the contracts for the purchase of the Duke lands consisting of two tracts containing 102.186 acres and 14.069 acres respectively, be and the same are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.

The President reported that the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, acting on behalf of the University of Virginia as its representative with respect to the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent, had executed an instrument dated the 24th day of September, 1963, which instrument had also been executed by or on behalf of The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, Trinity Church, Mildred Saffold Vincent and Frank B. Hayne, Jr., granting to Prairie Gas Corporation an easement for a pipeline right-of-way over lands situated in the Parish of St. Bernard and the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana, containing 7,082.12 acres, more or less, in which the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent owned an interest. This instrument provided for a nominal payment of $200.00 for such right-of-way easement but further provided that if Prairie Gas Corporation lays a pipeline in such right-of-way it would pay an additional sum of $27,333.40, to be paid before the line is laid, and if it lays an additional line in said right-of-way it would pay an additional sum of $27,333.40 therefor within 60 days subsequent to the completion of the construction of such additional line. If payment for the first line was not made within six months from the date of the instrument the grant of easement shall thereupon cease and determine

The President pointed out that the instrument here in question was similar to the two executed on behalf of the University by Judge Borah, dated June 18, 1962 and June 28, 1962, execution of which were ratified by the Board at its meeting on September 29, 1962, except that the compensation to be paid was almost double, since the compensation was at the rate of $20.00 per rod, and that the grant of such right-of-way easement at this price was advantageous to the Vincent Succession. He then presented a photographic copy of the instrument for consideration

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, on behalf of the University of Virginia, in executing that certain document dated September 24, 1963, together with The Administrators of the Tulane Educational Fund, Trinity Church, Mildred Saffold Vincent and Frank B. Hayne, Jr., conveying an easement for a pipeline right-of-way to Prairie Gas Corporation over lands situated in the Parish of St. Bernard and the Parish of Orleans, Louisiana, containing 7,082.12 acres, more or less, in which the Succession of Hugh E. Vincent has an interest, is hereby ratified and approved

The Rector proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

WHEREAS Barron Foster Black, LL.B., 1920, has served the University of Virginia with extraordinary devotion, as Alumnus, advisor, benefector, and friend, and

WHEREAS through eleven arduous years, as Visitor from 1945 to 1956, and as Rector of the University from 1949 to 1956, Mr. Black effectively advanced the well being of the University, with self-sacrificing devotion and attention to the interests of Faculty, Staff, and Students, and to the advancement of higher education in Virginia, and

WHEREAS Mr. Black has continued since his retirement from the Board of Visitors to serve the University through varied services as an Alumnus,

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby records its profound gratitude to Mr. Black,

RESOLVED FURTHER that it is the unanimous desire of the Visitors to see a portrait of Mr. Black hung at the University as a reminder to future generations of his distinguished services,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary of the Board be directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to Mr. Black.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Finance Committee on 6 June 1963 approving the purchase by the Comptroller of a site of approximately 210 acres located near Covesville in Albemarle County at a sum not to exceed $45,000 be and they are hereby approved

The President reported on the projected move from Green Bank, West Virginia, to Charlottesville, of the Staff and Headquarters of the Radio Astronomy Observatory of the Associated Universities, Inc. He stated that such a move would enhance greatly the work of the University in Astronomy and related fields

The President reported that the State Council of Higher Education on 14 October 1963 had requested the University to prepare plans for the establishment of a two-year branch at Wallops Island similar to those now in operation at Lynchburg and Martinsville

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Gilbert DeSimone as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $5,900

Mr. Lewis Diana as Visiting Professor of Sociology, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,025

Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, approximately one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $3,500

Mr. Martin Erdmann as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $5,600

Mrs. Blandine L. McLaughlin as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $5,300.

Mr. Richard D. Seidler as Instructor in Music (woodwinds), for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary to be paid on a per student fee basis

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election on 7 June 1963 of the following person to the faculty be and it is hereby cancelled

Miss Ingrid G. Merkel as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for the 1963-1964 session

The Chancellor proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of status and title be and it is hereby made

Mrs. Jean S. Edson, from Assistant Professor of Music, two-fifths time, for three years, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,960, to Assistant Professor of Music and Physics, full time, for two years, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $7,400.

The Chancellor announced the following resignation

Mr. Urban W. Ludwig, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 31 August 1963, to accept a position at a higher salary, with an opportunity for graduate study

The Chancellor announced the receipt of an additional gift by Mrs. A. J. Bowley of 100 shares of duPont stock with an estimated value of $24,350. The income from this gift is to be used for scholarships. An earlier gift by Mrs. Bowley of 200 shares of duPont stock and $1,000 in cash for the same purpose was reported to the Board on 29 September 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 29 September 1962, p. 369).

The Chancellor reported on the current status of the construction program for the new dormitory.

The Chancellor reported that the negotiation of a contract between Mary Washington College and the City of Fredericksburg setting forth the terms and conditions governing the location of a city reservoir on college property were proceeding and that he hoped a contract in final form could be recommended to the Board for approval, possibly at the December meeting but no later than the February meeting.

The Chancellor presented the annual report of the Librarian of the College, a copy of which had previously been sent to each member of the Board.

The Chancellor reported in detail on the biennial budget request to the Governor and the General Assembly for the 1964-1966 biennium. At the conclusion of the presentation and discussion, the report was ordered to be accepted and filed with the records of this meeting.

The Chancellor presented and discussed a report on the admissions program for the College for the past four academic years, including the current year of 1963-1964, a copy of which had previously been sent to each member of the Board.

The President reported that Chancellor Simpson had been selected as a member of an educational mission to India, which is being organized under the auspices of the U. S. Department of State and private foundations. The Chancellor will be absent on this mission for a period of two months, approximately from 24 October to 24 December 1963. The President stated that the time of the Chancellor devoted to this mission, other than authorized vacation and holidays, will be reimbursed to the College at his regular salary rate from private funds.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Richard O. Hays as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1963

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Lecturer in Sociology, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $7,400.

Mr. John S. MacKenzie as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1963

Mr. Frank A. Scott as Lecturer in Psychology, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,025.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. John R. Cragin as Lecturer in Engineering, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $3,083.30.

Mrs. Ruth A. Flint as Instructor in Biology, part time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $517

Mr. John D. S. Muhlenberg as Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,291

Mr. Otto H. Olsen as Lecturer in History, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $3,850.

Mrs. Helen Ludwig Sehrt as Lecturer in German, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $4,933

Mr. Rodger W. Smith as Lecturer in Mathematics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,700.

Mr. Harry C. Stutts as Lecturer in Mathematics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,625.

Mr. Larman C. Wilson as Lecturer in Political Science, part time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1963, at a salary of $887.50.

Mrs. Frances E. Withers as Instructor in Biology, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,033.33.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty

Mrs. Blossom D. Golinkin as Lecturer in Spanish, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $6,508.

Mr. Terence J. McKenzie as Lecturer in English, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,775

Mr. Ralph Mauller as Lecturer in Mathematics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $3,850.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence

Mr. Joseph H. Harrison, Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, without pay, to complete his book

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Harry L. Rosenzweig as Instructor in Mathematics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $2,650

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. George A. Gescheider as Instructor in Psychology, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,500.

Mr. Jerry L. Johnson as Instructor in Spanish, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $1,500.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty

Mrs. Betty L. Moore as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1963, at a session salary of $5,900.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 5:20 p.m.
