---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1964'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
SUCCESSION OF VINCENTRELOCATION OF EASEMENT FOR 18″ WATER LINE OF CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLEARCHITECTS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE LIBRARYREVIEW AND APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE OF THE MASTER SITE PLANAPPROVAL OF LOCATION OF FOUR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTSAPPROPRIATION FOR EXPENSES OF TRIP TO WEST GERMANY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date for a called meeting in the Honor Committee Room in Newcomb Hall at Charlottesville. The meeting convened at 10 00 a.m., recessed at 12 30 p.m. for lunch, and reconvened at 2 00 p.m. The following persons were present. Rector Charles R. Fenwick, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Blanton, Cross, Faulconer, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Rogers, Walker, Williams, and Wilkerson. Absent. Visitors Camp, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, and Parrish. Visitor Kuykendall was present for the afternoon meeting only.

The President reported that the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, the University's representative with respect to the Succession, had recently united on behalf of the University, in two agreements with the City of New Orleans, whereby the Naked Owners and the Usufructuary had agreed to sell to the City certain strips of land along the margin of Poydras Street, for the purpose of widening the street. The price paid by the City was $177,300.00, of which $38,308.09 would go to the University of Virginia. The real estate firm of Leo Fellman & Co. represented the Naked Owners and the Usufructuary in the negotiations with the City of New Orleans and the University's share of the fee charged for such services amounted to $750.00.

It was pointed out that after the widening of Poydras Street was completed, the Vincent properties will have a large frontage on new Poydras Street. It is contemplated that the interested parties in the Vincent properties should acquire two small adjoining parcels so as to give the Vincent properties a full block frontage on Poydras Street, thereby materially enhancing its value as a whole.

The Board then examined copy of a letter from Leo Fellman & Co. to Judge Borah, dated May 8, 1964, copies of the Agreements to Sell to the City of New Orleans and a sketch showing the Vincent properties on Poydras Street, the amount to be taken by the City for street widening and the remaining properties including the two (marked in yellow) which should be acquired.

After careful consideration and full discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, the following resolution was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Honorable Wayne G. Borah, in executing on behalf of the University of Virginia two Agreements to Sell to the City of New Orleans for the sum of $177,300.00 two strips or parcels of land for the purpose of widening Poydras Street in said City, be and the same is hereby ratified and approved.

The President reported that in connection with the construction of the remainder of the by-pass from its present terminal to a point on U. S. Route #29 south of Charlottesville, it would be necessary to relocate the easement for an 18″ water line which was granted to the City of Charlottesville under numbered paragraph (1) of a deed from The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated September 10, 1948, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, Virginia, in D.B. 280 p. 311.

He stated that the Agreement between the City and the University for relocation of the water line easement was not yet ready for execution although substantial agreement had been reached, and asked for authority to execute the Agreement when it had been approved as to form and substance by the University's special counsel.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that, subject to prior approval of the instrument as to form and substance by Special Counsel for the University, the proper officers of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and they hereby are authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia an agreement with the City of Charlottesville relocating the easement for an 18″ water line heretofore granted said City.

The President reported that the Architectural Advisory Committee which advises him on the selection of architects for new buildings, had recommended the firm of Vosbeck, Vosbeck and Associates of Alexandria, Virginia as the architects for the library building to be constructed at George Mason College. He proposed approval of the employment of this firm by the Board.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Vosbeck, Vosbeck and Associates of Alexandria, Virginia as the architects for the new library building to be constructed at George Mason College.

The President introduced Mr. Hideo Sasaki of the firm of Sasaki, Walker and Associates and Mr. John Adelberg, Senior Planner of that firm who presented a lengthy review of a proposed Master Site Plan of the University to serve as a guide for its physical development until 1975. A lengthy discussion ensued at the conclusion of the presentation. This discussion was underway at the time of the recess for lunch and was continued when the Board reconvened at 2 00 p.m.

At the conclusion of the discussion the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby approve in principle the Master Site Plan as presented at this meeting with the suggestion that as the planning proceeds, efforts be made to provide additional recreation facilities at the Medical Center, and particularly in the area south of Jefferson Park Avenue.

The President reported that in order to take advantage of the planning money appropriated by the 1964 General Assembly and to provide additional dormitories for single students and housing for married students who would be displaced by University Hall, specific approval was required for the location of four construction projects.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the location of the Medical Education Building and Library, School of Architecture Building, the dormitories and dining hall on McCormick and Alderman Roads, and the next phase of married students housing at Copeley Hill, as shown on the Master Site Plan, presented at this meeting, be and they are hereby approved.

Visitor Montague on behalf of the Finance Committee proposed the adoption of the following resolution which was unanimously approved:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby appropriated the sum of $1,000 from local funds for the purpose of paying in part the expenses to be incurred by President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. on his trip to West Germany from 18 June 1964 to 3 July 1964 for the purpose of visiting and studying the programs of certain universities in that country.

The President expressed his appreciation for the action of the Board but said he did not think it would be necessary for him to draw extensively on this fund.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 4 00 p.m.
