---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1964'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
ELECTIONSRESCISSION OF ELECTION OF MR. LAWRENCE R. QUARLES AS WILLS JOHNSON PROFESSOR OF ENGINEERINGESTABLISHMENT OF LAWRENCE R. QUARLES PROFESSORSHIP OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCEELECTION OF MR. LAWRENCE R. QUARLES AS LAWRENCE R. QUARLES PROFESSOR OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCERESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION FOR GIFT TO SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCELEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSDEATH OF MR. MAURICE DAVIERCONSOLIDATED UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT FUNDTITLE OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS AT THE COMMUNITY COLLEGESELECTION OF MR. J. N. G. FINLEY AS PROFESSOR EMERITUSSUPPORT OF FRINGE BENEFITS FOR FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATIVE STAFFGOVERNOR'S BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST FOR THE UNIVERSITYGIFT OF REAL ESTATE ON ROUTE 250 WEST BY MR. J. DEERING DANIELSONRESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION FOR GIFT TO DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRYREARRANGEMENTS IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE MEDICAL CENTERREPORT ON BRANCH AND COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAMSACHIEVEMENT TESTS FOR ENTERING UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTSUSE OF OFFICES, LABORATORIES, AND STUDIES BY RETIRED FACULTY MEMBERSREPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEEARCHITECTS FOR JAG BUILDINGEXCHANGE OF PROPERTIES WEST OF EMMET STREETJAMES MONROE LAW OFFICE - MUSEUM AND MEMORIAL LIBRARYCOMMITTEE ON SPECIAL RECOGNITIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCECOMMENTS ON MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE BUDGETGENERAL WELFARE OF THE COLLEGETRIP TO INDIAGIFT FROM THE LATE O. PENDLETON WRIGHTALUMNAE ASSOCIATION GIFTCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVE OF ABSENCEGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSPECIAL SALARY ACTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 34,440.57

Free service to counties and cities

124,366.52

Total

$158,807.09

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, at Fredericksburg, with the following present: Rector Albert V. Bryan; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Cross, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Lantor, Lewis, Martin, Rogers, Walker, and Williams. Absent: Visitors Blanton, Camp, Montague, and Wilkerson. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Edgar E. Woodward were present during Mary Washington College discussions.

The minutes of the meetings of 14 December 1963 and 23 January 1964, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Miss Elizabeth D. Coleman as Lecturer in History, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $587.75.

Miss Linda M. Dickson as Junior Instructor in Nursing, for six months, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $5,760.

Mr. William A. Elwood as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Michael D. Garrick as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Willard W. Harrison as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 February 1964, at a session salary of $7,600.

Mr. John F. Holley as Instructor in Modern Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $6,600.

Mr. Clarence C. Morrison as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $8,500.

Mr. Richard E. Peck as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. Paul D. Summers, Jr. as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $375.

Mr. Lewis F. Sutton as Instructor in Modern Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1964, at a session salary of $6,600.

Dr. William G. Thurman as Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1964, at a salary of $27,500, of which $12,500 is to be paid from local funds.

Dr. Myron P. Walzak as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective 1 July 1964, at a salary of $14,000, of which $8,000 is to be paid from local funds

Mr. Henry C. Warlick as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 July 1964, at a session salary of $6,000 plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of $7,200.

Dr. James E. Wood, III as Research Professor of Medicine and Cardiology, effective 1 July 1964, at a salary of $25,000

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles as Wills Johnson Professor of Engineering, effective 1 November 1961, as approved by the Board on 14 October 1961 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 14 October 1961, p. 289), be and it is hereby rescinded, effective 31 January 1964

The President announced the receipt of a gift of $500,000 by an anonymous donor, the entire proceeds of which are to be expended within a period of not less than 10 nor more than 20 years for the purpose of strengthening and developingg the quality of the instructional and research programs of the School of Engineering and Applied Science. The anonymous donor, who has previously made gifts of approximately the same amounts for strengthening the University's work in Physics, Biology, and Chemistry, has directed that (1) 20 per cent of the gift be used to establish and maintain a Chair to be known as the Lawrence R. Quarles Professorship of Engineering and Applied Science, (2) 55 per cent be used for graduate fellowships, and (3) 25 per cent be used to assist members of the faculty of the School of Engineering and Applied Science in their research programs

To carry out the wishes of the donor, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the Lawrence R. Quarles Professorship of Engineering and Applied Science

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles be and he is hereby elected Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $13,400 plus 20 per cent for summer work and 15 per cent for administrative duties, and $5,000 for the named professorship

The following resolution was adopted

WHEREAS an Alumnus of the University, who asks to remain anonymous, has made a magnificent gift of $500,000 to support instruction and research in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and

WHEREAS this gift is the latest in a series of gifts previously made by this same person to support instruction and research in Physics, Biology, and Chemistry,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, although the donor of this gift has asked that his name not be made public, quite a number of the members of the Board are aware that the man who is now making this great contribution has already made most substantial gifts to the University, that we want him to know how deeply grateful we are not only for the magnitude of his gifts but for the fine thought and special interest that he has taken in the affairs of the University, and that we wish to send him, along with our gratitude, an expression of our deep and affectionate regard for him not only as one of the most generous alumni the University has ever had but also as one of the most outstanding and constructive men ever connected with it

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Assistant Professor of Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to do research at the Mershon Center for Education in National Security at the Ohio State University

Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to teach at the Institut pour l'Etude des Methodes de Direction d'Entreprise in Lucerne, Switzerland.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made

Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, from Visiting Associate Professor of Law, to Associate Professor of Law, for the period 1 February 1964 to 30 June 1966.

Mr. Charles M. Davison, Jr., from Visiting Professor of Law, to Professor of Law, effective 1 February 1964

Mr. Jose Jurado, from Lecturer in Modern Languages (Spanish), to Assistant Professor of Modern Languages (Spanish), for one semester, effective 1 February 1964.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated

Mr. James M. Buchanan, Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $17,800, of which $3,600 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. James M. Ferguson, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $8,800, of which $300 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964.

Mr. Robert S. Johnson, Lecturer in Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $7,600, of which $300 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $14,200, of which $2,400 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce and Dean of the School of Commerce, at a salary of $13,400 plus $1,000 for administrative duties, effective 1 February 1964

Mr. G. Warren Nutter, Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $15,800, of which $3,200 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. John L. Peterman, Lecturer in Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $7,600, of which $300 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. Roger L. Ransom, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $8,800, of which $300 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964.

Mr. James L. Riopel, Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $8,800, effective 1 September 1964

Mr. Gordon Tullock, Associate Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $9,600, of which $1,000 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Professor of Economics, at a salary for the academic session of $15,000, of which $2,400 shall be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1964

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Donald M. Miller, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 1 February 1964, to continue a research project on which he is currently engaged for the United States Office of Education

Mrs. Betty K. Weyn, Instructor in Nursing, effective 31 January 1964, for personal reasons

The President announced the following appointments

Dr. William G. Thurman as Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1964

Mr. Henry C. Warlick as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 July 1964

The President announced the death on 6 January 1964 of Mr. Maurice Davier, Professor of Business Administration

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Davier was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to Mrs. Davier and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Davier's distinguished and devoted services to the University

Representatives of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts presented a report on the Consolidated Endowment Fund of the University of Virginia for the year ending 25 January 1964

The President recommended the creation of the honorary rank of Professor Emeritus at the Community Colleges by proposing the adoption of the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Professor Emeritus be and it is hereby established as an honorary rank in the faculties of the Community Colleges of the University,

RESOLVED FURTHER that election to the rank of Professor Emeritus at the Community Colleges shall be by specific action of the Board of Visitors in response to nominations made by the President of the following category of candidates full professors retiring between the ages of 65 and 70 after at least 10 years of service in the University, and

RESOLVED FURTHER that a person holding the title of Professor Emeritus at a Community College shall have his name listed in the appropriate catalogues of the University, but that the possession of this title shall not in itself entitle him to any salary or perquisites, nor to any specific duties, nor to any voice or vote in any meetings of the faculty of the Community College of which he was formerly a member

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus

Mr. J. N. G. Finley, Professor and Director of George Mason College, who retired on 30 December 1963, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1938

The President stated that various programs such as group life insurance, group hospital and medical insurance, disability plans, and retirement income plans, authorized by the Board of Visitors for administrative officers and professors, call for payments by the individuals concerned in addition to such sums as may be provided from University funds. From time to time alumni groups, foundations, and others desire to make contributions of funds to the University to cover all or a portion of the payments required so that such programs may to the extent of such contributions be provided without cost to all or some of the administrative officers or professors

The President recommended that his authority to receive such contributions from time to time and to apply them and other University funds for the purposes indicated be ratified, confirmed, and approved. Therefore, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to receive as contributions to the University such funds as may be offered from time to time by alumni groups, foundations, and others for the purpose of providing for all or a portion of the cost of programs such as group life insurance, group hospital and medical insurance, disability programs, and retirement income plans for all or certain administrative officers and professors of every grade,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the President be and he is hereby authorized to expend University funds including such contributions to provide these and similar programs, with the result that such programs are modified and become available to the individual involved in whole or in part without cost and on the basis of the University, as employer, paying the whole or any part of the cost of such programs, and

RESOLVED FURTHER that any such expenditure of University funds by the President whether on, before, or after the date of this resolution is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved

The President reported on the Governor's biennial budget request for the University for the biennium 1964-1966

The President announced the receipt of an unrestricted gift of real estate from a graduate of the School of Law, Mr. J. Deering Danielson, of the Miami Corporation in Chicago, Illinois, consisting of the following: (1) a total interest in 12.11 acres, and (2) a five-ninths interest in 48.24 acres, located south of Route 250, approximately one mile west of Charlottesville, Virginia, and valued at $65,000

The following resolution was adopted

WHEREAS the generosity of the donor in this instance is especially gratifying as a mark of the continuing relationship between Mr. J. Deering Danielson and the University of Virginia,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for this gift and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the donor as a mark of our warm appreciation

The following resolution was adopted

WHEREAS a devoted member of the faculty of the University, Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry, has made a generous gift of $500 which will be added to from time to time so that ultimately the funds will yield a return of about $100 a year to be used as an honorarium for a guest lecturer once each year in the Department of Chemistry,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep appreciation for this gift and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to Mr. Burger as a mark of our gratitude

The President reported on certain changes to be made in the administrative structure of the Medical Center

The President reported on the current status of the branch and community college programs.

The resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors on 8 December 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 8 December 1962, p. 375) relating to achievement tests for entering undergraduate students was amended and reenacted as follows

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, beginning with applicants for the academic year 1964-1965, all applicants for admission from secondary schools to the College of Arts and Sciences and the undergraduate schools at Charlottesville shall be required to take the Scholastic Aptitude Test and three Achievement Tests of the College Entrance Examination Board, the specific Achievement Tests to be required to be determined by the Dean of the College or School concerned, provided, however, that well-qualified transfer applicants may be exempted from the Achievement Tests

The President reported on the need for a statement of policy governing the use of offices, laboratories, and studies by retired faculty members. This problem will become increasingly acute as the University grows and office and laboratory space becomes more restricted. This matter was considered by the Academic Deans at a meeting with the President on 16 December 1963, and the consensus was that a University-wide policy was needed under which a retiring faculty member would automatically release all space he occupied at the time of retirement. If space was available after the needs of the school were met, the Dean would then assign space for a period of one year with renewals permitted

To effectuate this policy, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 1 July 1964, all University space occupied by retiring faculty members shall be released as of the effective date of the retirement, provided, however, that the Dean of the College or School concerned may, after all requirements of the College or School have been met, assign space to retired faculty members for a period not to exceed one year with annual renewals being permitted subject to the same condition

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1185, 1186, 1189, 1190, 1192, 1193, 1196, and 1197, aggregating $158,807.09, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

The President reported that the Judge Advocate Generals Office had requested the University to construct a new building for the School to be amortized by rental charges to be paid by the JAG School. The President reminded the Board that the present building now occupied by the JAG School was built by means of a loan from the State Treasury which would be completely amortized during 1964. At present, the JAG School, in addition to occupying its own building, also has space in Clark Hall. Construction of the new building would release this space in Clark Hall, which is now needed by the School of Law

The President reported further that the consultants to the Long-Range Master Site Planning Committee had recommended that a court be established between Clark Hall and the present JAG School building and that the new JAG building be constructed as the east portion of that court. The other building to the west of the proposed location of the JAG School building, which will complete the court, will be needed by the School of Law, according to the consultants, in about 10 years

The President stated that his Architectural Advisory Committee had recommended to him the firm of Rawlings and Wilson, Architects of Richmond, Virginia, as the architects for the new building. The President noted that this firm served as the architects for the married student housing project and had performed in excellent fashion

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Rawlings and Wilson, Architects of Richmond, Virginia, as the architects for the new JAG School building

The President reported that Dr. Charles W. Hurt and Mr. William W. Stevenson, owners of a strip of land lying west of Emmet Street and to the south and east of the Duke property recently acquired by the University had approached the Comptroller with respect to effecting an exchange of portions of their respective properties and that after study the proposed exchange appeared to be mutually advantageous. Hurt and Stevenson, in addition to the exchange of the parcels of real estate, proposed to pay the University the sum of $1,000.00

The President then submitted to the Board a copy of a plat showing the properties to be exchanged and drafts of the deeds carrying out the exchange and setting forth the terms and conditions upon which it was to be made

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, subject to the approval of the governor, which approval is required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the exchange of parcels of land between the University of Virginia and Dr. Charles W. Hurt and Mr. William W. Stevenson, upon the terms and conditions outlined to this Board, be and the same hereby is approved, and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President and Weldon Cooper, Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to execute and deliver on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a deed conveying to Messrs. Hurt and Stevenson, the parcel owned by the University to be exchanged

The President reported that a bill had been introduced in the State Senate which would, by a deed of gift, vest the ownership of the James Monroe Law Office - Museum and Memorial Library located in Fredericksburg, Virginia in the Commonwealth of Virginia as "a part of the property of the University of Virginia subject to the ordinary powers of its Board of Visitors." This property is now owned by the James Monroe Memorial Foundation. The bill as introduced would establish a Board of Regents, one member of which would be the President of the University of Virginia, with the principal duty of managing and supervising the Memorial

A general discussion ensued which centered principally on the relationships between the Board of Regents of the Memorial and the Board of Visitors of the University. Several members expressed the view that conflicts might arise between the two Boards because of the failure of the deed of gift to make clear the power of the Board of Visitors to decide finally in those instances when a conflict did arise. The consensus of the discussion was that the President would consult with the Attorney General's office and officials of the James Monroe Memorial Foundation for the purpose of clarifying the terms of the deed of gift on this point

The Board discussed the possibility of devising ways and means to give special recognition to those persons who have been outstanding benefactors of the University. In most other institutions, the device is the award of an honorary degree. Following the views of the Founder, however, the University of Virginia has never awarded an honorary degree and the Board was unanimous in its opinion that no such practice should be started

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Rector, with the advice of the President, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a special committee to consider ways and means, if appropriate, of giving special recognition to those individuals who by their acts have shown themselves to be outstanding benefactors of the University of Virginia

\[Subsequently the Rector, on 17 February 1964, appointed a Committee on Special Recognition consisting of Langbourne M. Williams, Chairman, Hunter Faulconer, and Frank W. Rogers.\]

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty

Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt as Instructor in Biology, part time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $1,475

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence

Mr. A. Ray Merchent, Registrar and Assistant Professor and Chairman of the Department of Education, from 1 September 1964 to 1 June 1965, with one-half pay, to complete his dissertation for the Ph.D. at the University of Virginia

Mr. Norman Wishner, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, with one-half pay, to complete his dissertation for the Ph.D. at Columbia University

Mr. Daniel H. Woodward, Associate Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, with one-half pay, for the purpose of pursuing research in England in the field of English literature

The Chancellor reported on the Governor's recommended budget for Mary Washington College for the biennium 1964-1966

The Chancellor reported on the general welfare of the College, including comments on admissions, a faculty salary scale, and the curriculum

The Chancellor reported on his recent trip to India, and the Exchange Program between American and Indian Women's Colleges.

The Chancellor reported that Mr. O. Pendleton Wright, of the architectural firm, Wright, Jones and Wilkerson, College architects, left the College two shares in his estate. We received notice of this bequest from the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, executors and trustees of the estate. They estimate the College interest in the estate to be approximately $2,500. We understand, however, that this may be a conservative estimate and the sum may be substantially greater. The proceeds are to be used as scholarship funds to assist worthy students in need of financial assistance

The Chancellor reported that, in June 1961, the Alumnae Association of the College gave to the Chancellor an unrestricted gift of $5,000 to be used for awarding fellowships either to Mary Washington undergraduates or graduates or Mary Washington College faculty. The Chancellor has made several small awards from this fund. In June 1963, the Alumnae Association authorized the establishment on a permanent basis of the $5,000 fund, and agreed to replace annually any amount used by the Chancellor for the purposes stated

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Lecturer in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1964, without pay, to complete the requirements for the Ph.D. degree at the University of Kentucky

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Nathan S. Popkin as Lecturer in Political Science, part time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964, at a salary of $850

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated

Mrs. Blossom D. Golinkin, Lecturer in Modern Languages (Spanish), at a salary of $3,550, for one semester, effective 1 February 1964

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:45 p.m.
