---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1965'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 11 December 1965
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: Rector Charles R. Fenwick; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, Walker, and Williams. Absent: Visitor Wilkerson. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Edgar E. Woodward were present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Visitor Thomas H. Blanton died on 18 October 1965.

The minutes of the meetings of 8 October 1965, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Arthur J. Anderson as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. George E. Boyd as Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 February 1966, at an annual salary of to be paid from local funds.Dr. George E. Broman, Jr. as Clinical Instructor in Surgery, for one year, effective 1 November 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. Peter Cannon as Lecturer in Business Administration, one-fifth time, for one year, effective 1 February 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Vittorio Celli as Acting Associate Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 February 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. William H. Dancy, Jr. as Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, one-third time, for the period 1 November 1965 through 30 January 1966, at a salary of .Dr. Edward E. Edgar as Instructor in Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, at no salary from the State.Mr. William W. Finley, Jr. as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. James C. Fox as Lecturer in Physical Education, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Mr. Donald K. Fry, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. John L. Gainer as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 February 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph P. Gilmore as Associate Professor of Physiology, effective 1 August 1966, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Otto F. Hagena as Research Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 October 1965, at an annual salary of to be paid from local funds.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, at a salary of Dr. Charlton G. Holland as Lecturer in Anthropology, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch as Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for two years, effective 1 February 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Walter A. Schier as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period 1 October 1965 through 30 June 1966, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Yung H. Son as Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy, for two years, effective 1 January 1966, at a salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Bryant C. Freeman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of French, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert S. Johnson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Alfred C. Proulx, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of French, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. George E. Boyd, Professor of Chemistry, for the period 1 February 1966 through 31 August 1966, without pay, to finish research underway at Oak Ridge Laboratories.Dr. Ivar P. Enge, Associate Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 January 1966, without pay, to return home and qualify for immigration visa for permanent residence.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Associate Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, without pay, to allow a sabbatical semester of research and then to complete the obligation to return for one semester to Princeton University.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, without pay, to continue work at the Haile Selassie University in Addis Ababa.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Peter S. Landweber, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period 1 November 1965 through 30 June 1968.Mr. John A. Oppelt, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period 1 November 1965 through 30 June 1968.Mr. Alan I. Ritter, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period 1 November 1965 through 30 June 1968.Mr. Anthony Winner, from Visiting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1968.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. James M. Buchanan, McIntire Professor of Economics, at a session salary of of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 November 1965.Mr. Ronald P. Melnik, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of History, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John L. Snook, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, for the period 20 October 1965 through 30 June 1966.Mr. William Watson, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at an annual salary of to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1966.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. James M. Ferguson, Associate Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1966, to accept a position with the University of Rochester.Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture, effective 30 June 1966 (to continue teaching as Professor of Architecture).Dr. Andrew G. Jessiman, Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective 30 June 1965, to move away from Virginia.Dr. Harry S. McGaughey, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 31 December 1965, to accept a position as Professor and Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of North Carolina.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1966, to accept the position of Dean of the Law School at the University of Alabama.Mr. Ronald P. Sokol, Lecturer in Law, effective 31 January 1966, owing to family responsibilities requiring him to live abroad.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. George E. Boyd as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for three years, effective 1 February 1966.Dr. James Q. Miller as Acting Assistant Dean of the School of Medicine, for the period 1 November 1965 through 31 August 1966.Mr. Wesley A. Volk as Acting Chairman of the Department of Microbiology, for the period 20 October 1965 through 30 June 1966.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.

MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL OF TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1965, for the term noted:Two-Year TermHenry E. McWaneDirector, Lynchburg Foundry Company; Director, First Colony Life Insurance Company; Lynchburg, Virginia

STATE-PLANTERS BANK GIFT TO TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Directors of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, on the eve of the bank's 100th birthday, contributed on 7 December 1965, a gift of $100,000 to the Taylor Murphy Institute of the University of Virginia;WHEREAS this gift represents a commitment to the future of the Commonwealth, an inspiring act of confidence by a group of farsighted business leaders of Virginia;WHEREAS this gift is a substantial and most welcome addition to the sum being raised to match a gift of $600,000 to the Institute by an anonymous donor, and will expedite the day when the Tayloe Murphy Institute can actively begin to pursue its goal to undertake studies that will include "any area of industrial and commercial development or of public policy that relates to such development" in Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we accept this gift and express our grateful thanks to the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, for this magnificent support, which will be of great assistance to the University in matching the anonymous gift of $600,000, will undoubtedly stimulate other matching gifts, and will bring nearer the date when the Tayloe Murphy Institute will be actively at work on behalf of the Commonwealth.

GIFT TO TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE BY FIVE ANONYMOUS DIRECTORS OF UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES' CONSTITUENT BANKS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS on 7 December 1965 five anonymous Directors of United Virginia Bankshares' Constituent Banks contributed $25,000 each to the Tayloe Murphy Institute of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS these gifts represent a commitment to the future of the Commonwealth by five munificent donors who have high confidence in that future; andWHEREAS these generous gifts, together with a gift of $100,000 received on the same day from the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts, are a most welcome and substantial addition to the goal of raising $600,000 to match a like sum, given to the University for the Institute by an anonymous donor, and will expedite the day when the Tayloe Murphy Institute can actively begin to pursue its purpose to undertake studies that will include "any area of industrial and commercial development or of public policy that relates to such development" in Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we accept these gifts with the warmest feelings of gratitude to the five anonymous donors for their magnificent contribution, which will greatly assist the University in matching the anonymous gift of $600,000, and by stimulating other matching gifts will bring nearer the date when the Tayloe Murphy Institute can become an active force for the advancement of the Commonwealth.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1966
-----------------------------------

Saturday, 12 February 1966

Fredericksburg

Saturday, 2 April 1966

Charlottesville

Friday, 3 June 1966

Charlottesville

Friday, 7 October 1966

Charlottesville

Saturday, 10 December 1966

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1966 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: Saturday, 12 February 1966FredericksburgSaturday, 2 April 1966CharlottesvilleFriday, 3 June 1966CharlottesvilleFriday, 7 October 1966CharlottesvilleSaturday, 10 December 1966Charlottesville The President also reminded the Board that preliminary meetings of the Board have been scheduled for Friday, 11 February 1966, Friday, 1 April 1966, and Friday, 9 December 1966.

APPEAL FOR REDUCTION OF TUITION
-------------------------------

The President reported that a student in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, Mr. John Travis Burford, of Charlottesville, has appealed to the Board of Visitors for a reduction in tuition.

The circumstances, the President reported, are that Mr. Burford for the third time is taking a course required by the School of Engineering and Applied Science for a degree. The course is offered only in the first semester of the regular academic session and this is the only course that Mr. Burford needs to complete his degree.

Mr. Burford appealed to the Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science and the Bursar of the University. He was informed that, under regulations established by the Board on 5 June 1964 and included in the 1964-65 catalogue of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, full tuition is required by the following language: "all regular undergraduate students pay full tuition and the full comprehensive fee for any semester in which they are registered." Mr. Burford subsequently appealed to the Secretary of the Board who informed him that no relief could be afforded under the terms of the Board resolution.

The President proposed that the appeal be denied since to do otherwise would be unfair in view of the denial of relief in the past to students in similar circumstances.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Bursar of the University in requiring John Travis Burford to pay full semester tuition for repeating a course twice previously failed having been in strict accordance with regulations of the Board of Visitors be and it is hereby approved.

STATEMENT OF POLICY ON ISSUANCE OF STUDENT MAILING LISTS
--------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that for some years the Office of the Dean of the University has been responsible for summer mailings to entering students as follows: letter from the President, letter from the Honor Committee, letter from Newcomb Hall and Student Council, and letter on military offerings to undergraduate males.

Mailing lists of entering students are provided for the mailing of The Jeffersonian, The Cavalier Daily, a publication by Food Services, and information on the health insurance program sponsored by the Student Council. These mailings are all concerned with information believed to be helpful and needed by the entering students. Lists for these mailings are prepared by the Data Processing Center.

Requests are frequently made by various organizations and individuals for mailing lists for solicitation, subscriptions, and other reasons. At the present time there appears to be no written policy governing the issuance of mailing lists which will protect the University, and especially the Data Processing Center, the Registrar, and the Office of the Dean of the University, from such requests.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that no mailing lists of entering students, old students, or students' parents will be provided any organization, group, or individual except in connection with official University business, and with the approval of the Dean of the University.

GIFT OF REAL ESTATE BY MR. AND MRS. JAMES DEERING DANIELSON
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mr. and Mrs. James Deering Danielson, of Miami, Florida, have made a gift to the University of Virginia, of their remaining interest in the Lewis Mountain Tract, or an undivided four-ninths interest in Tract No. 1 of 48.24 acres about one-half mile west of the City of Charlottesville;WHEREAS this generous gift has numerous possibilities for effective use in the future educational programs of the University;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express our collective and individual thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Danielson for this gift and assure them that it will be put to good use by us and our successors in the enhancement of the University's educational efforts; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary be and he is hereby directed to send a copy of this resolution to Mr. and Mrs. Danielson.

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period July 1, 1964 to June 30, 1965" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

DEATH OF VISITOR THOMAS HUNTER BLANTON
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: Thomas Hunter Blanton, Visitor of the University of Virginia since 16 January 1959, died on 18 October 1965 on the eve of his seventieth birthday.Thomas Hunter Blanton was born in Caroline County, Virginia on 19 October 1895. He entered the University of Virginia in September 1916 and obtained the degree of Bachelor of Laws in 1921. Returning to Caroline County, he practiced law and later was elected Commonwealth's Attorney of that county for the period 1924-1925. In 1943 he was elected to the Senate of Virginia and served in that capacity until his retirement from the Senate in January 1964. He became a member of the Senate Committee on Insurance and Banking, of which he subsequently became chairman, and was a member of the Senate's Finance Committee.Mr. Blanton's attitude toward his beloved University was expressed in a letter he wrote to the Secretary of the Board of Visitors in 1959, which reads in part as follows:"It is a high honor to serve on the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and I shall always be mindful of the trust. I have frequently said that if I have accomplished anything in life I am indebted to the University for it. I still have that regard for that institution."He was a tireless worker in the cause of his Alma Mater, serving as President both of the University of Virginia Alumni Association and of the Board of Trustees of the University's Alumni Fund. During his service on the Board of Visitors he became chairman of the Finance Committee and a member of the Executive Committee.The Visitors assembled on this 11th day of December 1965 wish to pay tribute to Mr. Blanton's contributions to the service of his Nation, his State, and his University. He was a wise counselor in our deliberations, never losing sight of the fact that the University must always keep its sights clearly on its goals of education and the advancement of knowledge and must never surrender to the momentary passions of the times. To Mr. Blanton's widow, Mrs. Blanche D. Broaddus Blanton, and to his two daughters, Mrs. Edward Stehl, III, and Mrs. Kenneth McCord, we extend our profound sympathy and express our conviction that they will see in his contributions to the cause of the Commonwealth the highest example of public service.The Secretary is hereby directed to send a copy of this resolution to the widow and children of Mr. Blanton, and to incorporate in the permanent minutes of our meetings this expression of our grief at his passing.

HELEN GRAYSON JONES HOXTON SCHOLARSHIP
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the gift from Mr. Llewellyn G. Hoxton, Professor Emeritus of Physics, of 50 shares of General Motors Corporation Common Stock and $1,500 in cash, to establish a scholarship to be known as the "Helen Grayson Jones Hoxton Scholarship" be gratefully accepted, subject to the terms of the Indenture of Trust executed by Mr. Hoxton on 1 September 1965; and,RESOLVED further that in transmitting the text of this resolution and the appreciation of the University to Mr. Hoxton, the Secretary shall convey also the gratification of the Visitors, both corporately and personally, for a gift that perpetuates the happy association of the University of Virginia with the Hoxton family, and fittingly commemorates the beneficent influence of Professor and Mrs. Llewellyn G. Hoxton upon the University through his dedicated and inspiring teaching and in a personal association over many years.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$ 26,131.03

Free service to counties and cities

70,352.95

\-----------

Total

$ 96,483.98

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1312, 1313B, 1313C, 1316, and 1317, aggregating $96,483.98, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$ 26,131.03Free service to counties and cities70,352.95-----------Total$ 96,483.98

RENT INCREASES FOR ALDERMAN ROAD DORMITORIES
--------------------------------------------

The President reported that a rise in labor costs resulting from a substantial wage increase for maids and janitors makes it necessary to increase the rental charges for the Alderman Road dormitories. The charges established for these dormitories at the time they were constructed were just sufficient to cover operating expenses and bond amortization. (The other dormitories need not be increased, at least for the present.) A $25.00 increase in rental charges per session will produce sufficient revenue to cover expenses.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rental charges for the Alderman Road dormitories be increased from $275 per session to $300 per session, effective at the beginning of the 1966 Summer Session.

CHANGE IN TIAA PLAN
-------------------

The President stated that, under the present retirement plan for the faculty, the University pays to the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association 15 per cent of each faculty member's salary above $4,800, the present maximum for Social Security payments. Effective 1 January 1966 the Social Security maximum increases to $6,600, with a rate of 4.4 per cent contributed by the University, and in 1969 the rate increases again to 4.9 per cent. If the University moved its base for determining its contribution to TIAA from $4,800 to $6,600, its overall contribution to the retirement of a faculty member would decrease. In order to prevent such a decrease the President proposed that the base be increased to $5,300 on 1 January 1966 and to $5,500 on 1 January 1969 and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the base for contributions by the University to the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association retirement plan for faculty members be increased from $4,800 to $5,300 on 1 January 1966, and to $5,500 on 1 January 1969.

CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDIES IN THE SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------

The President reported on the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences.

GRANT FOR CHEMISTRY BUILDING
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for a grant under Title I of Public Law 88-204 (Higher Education Facilities Act of 1963 as amended by the Higher Education Act of 1965) of approximately $500,000 to be used for the construction of the Chemistry Building.

CHANGE IN STUDENT "HEALTH REGULATIONS"
--------------------------------------

The President reported on a proposal by the Dean of Admissions and the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences to revise a statement under "HEALTH REGULATIONS" in the "University Regulations" section of the University of Virginia Record, College of Arts and Sciences, 1965-1966 so that it will be in line with the current practice of the Office of Admissions. The statement now reads as follows: "Students accepted for admission must complete a health form prior to matriculation."

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the first sentence under "HEALTH REGULATIONS," in the "University Regulations" section of the University of Virginia Record, College of Arts and Sciences, 1965-1966, page 26, ("Students accepted for admission must complete a health form prior to matriculation.") be revised to read as follows in the 1966-1967 issue: "Students offered admission to the University must complete a health questionnaire prior to final acceptance."

RENT INCREASES FOR MARRIED STUDENT HOUSING (COPELEY HILL)
---------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the increased cost of building the last group of married student housing, together with rising operating costs, make necessary an increase in the rental charges for married student housing at Copeley Hill. The current rates are: 1 bedroom - $78 per month; 2 bedrooms - $92 per month; 3 bedrooms - $105 per month. The President recommended (1) that the rental charges be increased, effective 1 July 1966, as follows: 1 bedroom - $80 per month; 2 bedrooms - $95 per month; and 3 bedrooms - $110 per month; and (2) that these increased rates apply to the new apartments on Copeley Hill as they are completed and occupied during the spring of 1966 by the adoption of the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rental charges for married student housing (Copeley Hill) be increased, effective 1 July 1966, as follows: 1 bedroom - $78 to $80 per month; 2 bedrooms - $92 to $95 per month; 3 bedrooms - $105 to $110 per month; and that the increased rates apply to the new apartments for married students as they are completed and occupied during the spring of 1966.

MICHAEL LEWIS WAGENHEIM SCHOLARSHIP FUND
----------------------------------------

The President reported on the receipt of a gift of $1500, to be used for the establishment of the MICHAEL LEWIS WAGENHEIM SCHOLARSHIP FUND in honor of the late Michael Lewis Wagenheim, a fourth-year student in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Virginia, who died on 15 October 1965 as a result of an automobile accident. The scholarship is being established through the efforts of Mr. Wagenheim's father, Jack I. Wagenheim of New York City, and his uncle, Michael B. Wagenheim of Norfolk, both of whom are alumni of the University of Virginia. The initial gift of $1500 will be supplemented in 1966 by other persons anxious to contribute to the fund.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established the MICHAEL LEWIS WAGENHEIM SCHOLARSHIP FUND in memory of the late Michael Lewis Wagenheim, a fourth-year student in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Virginia, who died as the result of an automobile accident on 15 October 1965;RESOLVED further that the gift of $1500 as an initial payment to be used as the principal of this fund, is hereby gratefully acknowledged and accepted; andRESOLVED further that these funds, in accordance with the wishes of the donors, are to be used to support scholarships which are to be awarded to deserving undergraduate third or fourth-year students majoring in English in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Virginia, with preference being given to students engaged or interested in creative writing.

DEGREE IN LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby authorize the University to award the degree of Bachelor of Landscape Architecture in the School of Architecture.

PROPOSAL FOR A SURVEY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President with the assistance of a committee of the Board of Visitors investigate the cost of a survey by an outside consultant of the administrative organization of the University and report back to the Board. The Rector then appointed the following members to the committee to assist the President:William A. Hobbs, ChairmanFrank W. RogersLangbourne M. Williams

GIFT BY THE TRUSTEES OF THE McGREGOR FUND
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Trustees of the McGregor Fund once more have demonstrated their magnificent support of the educational efforts of the University of Virginia through a grant of $10,000 a year for five years to support a chair in American history;AND WHEREAS this gift will be of great help in strengthening the work of the University in the field of American history by enabling it to attract an able and distinguished occupant of the Chair;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express to the Trustees of the McGregor Fund our deep gratitude and thanks for this gift and assure them that these additional resources will enable the University to assume a position that is second to none in the field of teaching and research in American history.\[This is a tentative resolution subject to final revision before being placed in the permanent minutes and sent to the McGregor Trustees.\]

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSEASEMENT TO SPOTSYLVANIA SERVICE AUTHORITY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chancellor Simpson reported to the Board that the Spotsylvania Service Authority, a public body, desired to obtain an easement for a sanitary sewer line, sewage lift station and access road to said sewage lift station over the West Brompton property of Mary Washington College, the sewer easement to run from the M. G. Rowe Estate property, known as Altoona, to an easterly terminus at the right of way line of Alt. U.S. No. 1. The easement would be 20 feet in width from its beginning to the Sewage Lift Station and 10 feet in width from that point to its eastern terminus. An additional 20 feet, 10 feet on either side of the easement, would be granted as a temporary easement for construction purposes.

Chancellor Simpson reported that the proposed easement grant would provide to Mary Washington College the continuing right to connections with said sewer line upon the same terms and under the same conditions as are accorded to other property owners in the Authority's service area; and would further provide for relocation of the easement and lift station, if such should become necessary, at the Authority's expense.

Chancellor Simpson then submitted to the Board for consideration a draft of such easement agreement, dated December 10, 1965, prepared by Counsel for the Spotsylvania Service Authority and approved as to form by the University's Special Counsel, C. Venable Minor, accompanied by a plat showing the route of the proposed easement and the location of the proposed sewage lift station.

After discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, The Rector and Visitors having authority so to do under the provisions of Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia grant to Spotsylvania Service Authority, a public body, politic and corporate, the easements described in the Agreement submitted to this meeting, the route of such easements being shown on the plat accompanying such Agreement;

RESOLVED, Further, that the President of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the Agreement of easement dated December 10, 1965, granting such easements to Spotsylvania Service Authority, and that the Secretary of this Board be and he is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such Agreement and to attest the same.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSPROMOTIONS
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Bernard C. Dornisch, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Betty J. Gilliam, Instructor in Art, one-half time, to Assistant Professor of Art, one-half time, for the period 1 February 1966 through 30 June 1968, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Stanley H. Botts, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John H. Green, Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Marian B. Hamilton, Lecturer in Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas T. Hamilton, Professor of History, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Aldis B. Hatch, Professor of Modern Languages, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard O. Hays, Assistant Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward L. Henson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Cornell G. Jacobs, Instructor in Business, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Lecturer in Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Economics and Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Emma V. McCraray, Associate Professor of Business, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James K. Mullins, Assistant Professor of Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Lona W. Roberts, Assistant Instructor in Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Chester H. Russell, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John B. Smith, Acting Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Marvis C. Webb, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Gunter Weinforth, Lecturer in Modern Languages, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Donald I. Weinstein, Instructor in English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Roy L. Wells, Jr., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Gregory L. Williams, Instructor in History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James C. Willis, Lecturer in Accounting, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. William L. Wilson, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

SECONDARY HIGHWAY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------

The President reported on a request by the Highway Department for land on which to construct a secondary highway at Clinch Valley College.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposal of the Commissioner of Highways in his letter to the President of the University dated 6 December 1965 for the grant of 9.32 acres of land now belonging to Clinch Valley College for the purpose of constructing a highway be and it is hereby approved.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSCHANGE OF TITLE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mr. Samuel O. Ruff, from Lecturer in English, one-fourth time, to Lecturer in Economics and Lecturer in English, three-fourths time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Robert T. Vance, Lecturer in Political Science, three-fourths time, for one semester, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.
