---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1965'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1965) February 6, 1965
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 6, 1965

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

9 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

CHANGE IN DATE OF APRIL 1965 MEETINGELECTIONSTHE WILLIAM W. CORCORAN PROFESSORSHIP OF HISTORYELECTION OF MR. ORON J. HALE AS WILLIAM W. CORCORAN PROFESSOR OF HISTORYRE-ELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTAPPOINTMENTSCONSOLIDATED UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT FUNDCOLONEL JOSEPH MANUEL HARTFIELD, 1882-1964INTERUNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS COUNCILVISIT OF STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATIONREPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEEW. TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTEINCREASES IN CHARGES FOR HOSPITAL CARE AND SERVICERELATIONSHIPS WITH THE UNIVERSITY'S COLLEGES AND BRANCHESJAMES BRANCH CABELL PROFESSORSHIP OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN LITERATUREMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSCLOSING OF OLD ACCOUNTSGIFTS TO MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 6 FEBRUARY 1965SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY REQUESTREPORT ON ADMISSIONSCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONRE-ELECTIONGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENTMADISON FIELD OFFICE - SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES MATTERSELECTIONRESIGNATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$11,508 19

Free service to counties and cities

85,955 87

Total

$97,464 06

I. ACCOMMODATIONS

EXISTING RATE

PROPOSED RATE

INCREASE

Private rooms

(34)

$23 00

$26 00

$3 00

Private rooms

(12)

25 00

27 00

2 00

Private rooms

( 8)

28 00

28 00

\----

Private rooms

( 2)

35 00

35 00

\----

Mother & Child rooms

(10)

23 00 plus 4 00

24 00 plus 4 00

1 00

Semi-Private, Two Bed

(280)

19 00

22 00

3 00

Semi-Private, Three Bed

(24)

18 00

21 00

3 00

Semi-Private, Four Bed

(92)

17 00

20 00

3 00

Pediatric Beds, all

(64)

17 00

20 00

3 00

Psychiatric Private

( 8)

23 00

27 00

4 00

Psychiatric Two Bed

( 6)

20 00

24 00

4 00

Psychiatric Three Bed

( 3)

20 00

24 00

4 00

Psychiatric Four Bed

(20)

19 00

23 00

4 00

Nursery, Regular

8 00

11 00

3 00

Nursery, Premature

10 00

13 00

3 00

II. SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE

PRIVATE & SEMI-PRIVATE

WARD

EXISTING

PROPOSED

EXISTING

PROPOSED

1\. Operating Room

Category I, major

$200 00

$230 00

$150 00

$170 00

Category II, major

145 00

165 00

100 00

115 00

Category III, major

110 00

125 00

80 00

90 00

Category IV, major

85 00

100 00

60 00

70 00

Category V, major

60 00

70 00

40 00

45 00

Category VI, minor

25 00

30 00

15 00

20 00

Category VII, minor

15 00

20 00

10 00

15 00

Open Heart Procedure

350 00

400 00

250 00

300 00

Artificial Kidney Procedure

150 00

175 00

100 00

125 00

Surgical Pathology

7 00

8 50

7 00

8 50

2\. Intensive Care Service, per day

48 00

60 00

48 00

60 00

3\. Delivery Room

40 00

55 00

40 00

55 00

4\. Physical Therapy, minimum

4 00

5 00

3 00

4 00

Physical Therapy, maximum

10 00

11 00

8 00

9 00

5\. Occupational Therapy

3.00

4 00

2 00

3 00

(No charge for psychiatric patients.)

6\. Cardio Pulmonary Lab, minimum

5 00

7 50

3 50

5 00

Cardio Pulmonary Lab, maximum

125 00

150 00

75 00

100 00

7\. Clinical Laboratory

no increase

weekly flat rate

7 00

14 00

8\. Blood Bank

no increase

no increase

9\. Pharmacy Prescription

no increase

no increase

10\. Oxygen Therapy

no increase

no increase

Fund

Principal

Interest Earned Since 1 July 1940

Total

DAR Student Aid Fund

$ 34 50

$ 21 30

$ 55 80

Donated Funds

Bird Bath

25 67

15 62

41 29

Fountain Fund

136 00

83 24

219 24

Donation

52 05

64 35

116 40

$248 22

$184 51

$432 73

Hatton Lathrop Clark Scholarship

$4,200

Anonymous Gift

$3,000

Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund

$9,575

Thomas Howard and Elizabeth Merchant Tardy Endowment Fund

$1,500

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present Rector Charles R. Fenwick, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Cross, Johnson, Kending, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, Walker, Wilkerson, and Williams. Absent: Visitors Blanton, Camp, Faulconer, and Hobbs. Comptroller Vincent Shea and Messrs, Douglas G. Chapman, Jr., and R. B. Cardozo were in attendance for the report on the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the called meeting and the regular meeting both held on 12 December 1964, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the date of the meeting of the Board in April 1965 which was established by resolution of the Board on 12 December 1964 for 10 April 1965 be and it is hereby changed to 9 April 1965 at Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Harry T. Antrim as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,400.

Mr. William L. Breit as Associate Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,900, of which $1,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. James W. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400, to be increased to $8,800, with the approval of the President, if his dissertation is accepted by 1 September 1965.

Mr. Phillip F. Herring as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400.

Dr. Charles E. Hess as Instructor in Physiology, for the period 27 January 1965 through 30 June 1965, at a salary of $4,600.

Mr. William H. Kaven as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400, which is to be increased, with the approval of the President, to $9,200 if his dissertation is accepted by 1 September 1965.

Mr. Edward Kessler as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,400.

Mr. George C. Kinnear as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,100.

Mr. James L. A. Kraft as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,400.

Miss Carolina G. Lambright as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,500.

Mr. Peter S. Landweber as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., as Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $14,200.

Mr. Bernard A. Morin as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400, to be increased to $9,200, with the approval of the President, if his dissertation is accepted by 1 September 1965.

Mr. John E. Petty as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,400.

Mr. Jean Le Tourneaux as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,200.

Mr. Daniel E. Weiner as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period beginning 15 March 1965 and continuing through 30 June 1967, at a salary of $10,800, of which $400 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Anthony Winner as Visiting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,000.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established, effective 6 February 1965, a Chair in the Department of History to be known as the William W. Corcoran Professorship of History.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Oron J. Hale be and he is hereby elected William W. Corcoran Professor of History, effective 6 February 1965, at a session salary of $18,200, of which $3,000 is to be paid from the Corcoran Endowment.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Dion S. Birney, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Donald C. Larson as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Todd K. Bender, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to accept a research fellowship from the American Council of Learned Societies for research in France.

Mr. James M. Ferguson, Associate Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to accept a post-doctoral fellowship in law and economics at the University of Chicago.

Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 February 1965, without pay, to accept a Science Faculty Fellowship by the National Science Foundation at North Carolina State of the University of North Carolina at Raleigh.

Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to spend an additional semester in research on military policy of the de Gaulle government.

Mr. Gus K. Tebell, Professor of Physical Education, for one month, effective 1 January 1965, without pay, because of illness.

Mr. Gordon Tullock, Associate Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to accept a Ford Foundation Faculty Research Fellowship.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

Mr. Alan P. Batson, Associate Professor of Physics and Director of the Computer-Science Center, at a session salary of $11,400 plus 20 per cent for summer work plus $1,250 for administrative duties, or a total salary of $14,930, effective 1 January 1965.

Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $23,500, of which $7,700 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1964.

Mr. David M. Bevington, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of $10,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Assistant Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $10,000, effective 1 February 1965.

Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of $13,000, effective 1 January 1965.

Mr. Frank W. Finger, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of $15,800, effective 1 February 1965.

Dr. Harry S. McGaughey, Jr., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, at a salary of $20,000, effective 1 January 1965.

Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $13,400, effective 1 February 1965.

Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Assistant Professor of Urology, at a salary of $15,500, of which $9,500 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 January 1965.

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Frank Banghart, Associate Professor of Biostatistics in Preventive Medicine, effective 31 December 1964, to accept a position at Florida State University.

Mr. Rowland A. Egger, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at Princeton University.

Mr. William T. Elias, Head Football Coach, effective as of the close of business on 18 January 1965, to accept a similar position at the United States Naval Academy.

Mr. Bryan R. Noton, Acting Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 31 January 1965, to accept a position in industry.

Miss C. Katherine Radford, Instructor in Education, effective 31 January 1965, to accept a position as psychologist in the McGuffey Reading Clinic.

The President announced the retirement of Mr. Gus K. Tebell, Professor of Physical Education, effective 31 January 1965. Mr. Tebell has been a member of the University staff since 1930.

The following appointments were announced:

Mr. George E. Blackburn as Head Football Coach, effective 26 January 1965.

Mr. Richard J. Coughlin as Acting Chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, for the period 1 February 1965 through 31 July 1966.

Mr. Henry C. Warlick as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Messrs Douglas G. Chapman, Jr. and R. B. Cardozo of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts of Richmond appeared before the Board and presented a detailed report on the University of Virginia Consolidated Endowment Fund for the year ending 25 January 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that upon the death of Joseph Manuel Hartfield, known to us all as "The Colonel," we have lost an incomparable friend, and the University of Virginia has lost an illustrious graduate and benefactor whose loving and continuing labors for his alma mater have been an inspiration to all of her alumni and friends, whose service as a Visitor of the University from 1955 to 1963 marked the continuation of his sustained support of the University lasting more than half a century, whose benefactions did not cease with his death but will be continued through his farseeing gifts to the endowment funds of the University, and whose generous love of life and art will continue to inspire us all,

RESOLVED FURTHER that we associate ourselves with the words of the editors of the 1964 Barrister, who dedicated that edition to Colonel Hartfield in the following language. "The 1964 edition of the Barrister is dedicated with admiration, respect and affection to Joseph M. Hartfield, renowned lawyer, devoted alumnus, generous benefactor, ardent devotee of the Kentucky Derby, wise advisor to the Metropolitan Opera Company, and loyal friend, whose life and work have made us proud to be graduates of this Law School and glad to be members of the Legal Profession", and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary be and he is hereby directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to the members of Colonel Hartfield's family.

The President presented a proposal that the University become a member of the Interuniversity Communications Council which was organized at a meeting in Denver in October 1964 at which were present academic officials from Duke University, Harvard University, State University of New York, University of California, University of Michigan, University of Pittsburgh, and the University of Virginia. After the final organization of the Council is completed and a staff has been appointed, participation in the organization will be open to all qualified colleges and universities in the United States and Canada.

The primary membership will be institutional rather than individual. Any institutional members can withdraw after one month's notice and the Council can in no way commit a member institution to any activity without its approval. Each institutional member will pay a membership fee of $250 but have no other financial commitment.

The general objectives of the Council are to:

1\. Provide a forum where the best minds of the academic community can discuss, debate and effectively appraise, the current "state of the art" of the communication sciences and technology and the problems and opportunities involved in incorporating them into the planning and programs of colleges and universities as they carry out their total obligations to society.

2\. Establish interuniversity task groups to focus the expertise already available within our colleges and universities upon specific current problems in educational communications of interest to the academic community. It has become traditional for government and industry to improve their functioning by calling upon the competence and skills of scholars, irrespective of their institutional affiliations. It would seem desirable that the universities and colleges take steps to avail themselves collectively of this resource.

3\. Provide a framework that will stimulate cooperation in the processing of scientific information and in the development and operation of interuniversity systems. Here the emphasis will not be on machines and methods, but on the application of existing techniques to broaden and deepen human intellectual capacity.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to take such action as may be necessary to obtain the admission of the University of Virginia to the Interuniversity Communications Council.

The President reported on the forthcoming visit of the State Council of Higher Education on 5 March 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1254 and 1255, aggregating $97,464 06, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 9 April 1965, the W. Tayloe Murphy Institute be and it is hereby established at the University of Virginia in recognition and appreciation of the unfaltering support of the Graduate School of Business Administration by the late W. Tayloe Murphy of Warsaw, the purpose of this Institute to be to conduct studies and investigations of problems having to do with the development of the Commonwealth of Virginia that are likely to contribute to the industrial and commercial development of Virginia, this Institute to be supported by endowment funds in the amount of $725,000 previously received from anonymous donors and by additional endowment funds as provided below,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Institute shall not become operative until matching gifts in the amount of at least $600,000 be received and added to the special endowment fund held for the University of Virginia for the W. Tayloe Murphy Institute by the Virginia National Bank in Norfolk, the income from which is to be used for the same purpose as the income from the gift of the anonymous donors, with the operative date of the Institute to be certified by the President when the additional matching gifts in the amount of $600,000 have been received,

RESOLVED FURTHER than the Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration shall be the Director of the W. Tayloe Murphy Institute and shall be assisted by a Council composed of 11 persons, 2 of whom shall be the Rector and the President of the University serving as ex officio members, to be appointed by the Board of Visitors on the nomination of the President and the Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration for 3-year terms so arranged as to provide for the termination of 1/3 of the members' terms each year, and no appointive member shall be eligible for more than 2 consecutive terms, and

PROVIDED FURTHER that, as Director of the Institute, the Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration shall make on behalf of the Council an annual report to the President of the University upon the work of the Institute, including a summary of the income and expenditures of the Institute for the year and the proposed budget for the ensuing year, and that the income of the Institute shall not be obligated to support ordinary operating expenses of the Graduate School of Business Administration.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed rates for care and service at the University Hospital as shown below be and they are hereby approved to become effective on 1 March 1965.

During the consideration of the impending visit of the State Council of Higher Education, a related discussion arose concerning the relationship of the Board of Visitors to the two-year colleges and branches located elsewhere in Virginia. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board asked the President to present proposals for regularizing the relationships between the Board and these colleges and branches.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS Mr. Robert G. Cabell, III, under a trust agreement entered into on 31 December 1964, has provided for a distinguished professorship at the University of Virginia to be known as the James Branch Cabell Professorship of English and American Literature, in honor of his brother, the late James Branch Cabell, whose manuscripts Mr. Cabell has already presented to the University,

AND WHEREAS it is the wish of the donor that this act of great beneficence not be announced at the present time,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that, in becoming parties to the withholding of public acclaim that so generous an act deserves, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia nevertheless wish to and hereby do make a matter of permanent and, for the present, private record of their individual and collective pride in this gift, both as a symbol of the precious ties that have bound the University of Virginia and the Cabell family together since Mr. Jefferson's day, and also as a fitting monument to Virginia's most gifted prose artist of this century,

AND RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary be and he is hereby directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to Mr. Cabell.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Marshall E. Bowen as Assistant Professor of Geography and Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mr. George W. Grayson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,500.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Albert G. Duke, Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, with one-half pay, to complete the requirements for his doctorate at Ohio State University.

Mr. Roger L. Kenvin, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to participate in the U.S.-Indian Women's Colleges Exchange Program at Isabella Thoburn College, Lucknow, India.

The following resignations were announced:

Miss Shirley M. Cadle, Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, effective 30 June 1965, to be married.

Mr. Edward D. Lowry, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at Georgetown University.

The Chancellor reported that the College has several funds that have been on the books for more than 25 years, that there has been no activity in these funds for many years, and that no records are available as to the purposes for which these funds were established. In order that the financial records of the College may be cleared, the Chancellor requested permission to close out these funds and deposit the present amounts now in each fund to the credit of the College's non-restricted general endowment funds. These funds are as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to close out the funds listed above and to credit the proceeds thereof to the non-restricted general endowment funds of the College.

Mrs. Clark wrote the College that she wished to assist some deserving student to get a college degree. She was influenced in offering this assistance to Mary Washington College by three of the students. She sent a check for $4,200 representing a four-year scholarship for a Virginia student.

A gift of $3,000 was received from Mrs. Grellet C. Simpson on behalf of an anonymous donor.

Mrs. Alfred I duPont gave the College 100 shares of General Motors stock, valued at $9,575, to be added to the Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund established by her in 1947.

The College received a copy of a letter from Mr. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the University, acknowledging receipt of a check for $1,500 to be added to the Tardy Scholarship Fund. The check for $1,500 was turned over to Mr. Shea to be credited to this Fund.

The Chancellor presented the six-year capital outlay request for the period 1966-1972 which had been submitted to the Governor. Discussion centered particularly on the provision for additional dormitory construction and the Chancellor noted that the requests called for an increase for the next six years from 1,704 resident students to 2,004 resident students. A further discussion centered on the need for additional land and especially the possible availability of a tract of land of approximately seven acres adjacent to the College. The determination of the biennium in which an appropriation to buy this land was to be made was left to the discretion of the Chancellor and the President.

The Chancellor presented a report on the current status of admissions for the academic year 1965-1966 and included as a part thereof a report on admissions for the past five years.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Barnard C. Dornisch as Instructor in Mathematics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $2,950.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Lona W. Roberts as Assistant Instructor of Biology, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $637 50.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Joanne M. J. Baker as Lecturer in Mathematics, three-fourths time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $2,475.

Mrs. Barbara B. Pollard as Lecturer in English, three-fourths time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $2,475.

The following resignation was announced:

Mr. David Gottlieb, Lecturer in Sociology, effective 31 January 1965, because of changes in professional responsibilities.

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. Hubert M. Cole as Acting Dean of Students, for the period beginning 1 January 1965 and continuing through 30 June 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. John C. Birmingham, Jr., as Instructor in Spanish, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $1,550.

The following resignation was announced:

Mrs. Renee C. Donelson, Instructor in Spanish, effective 31 January 1965, to finish the requirements for the doctorate.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:50 p.m.
