---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1965'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 8 October 1965
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 3:00 p.m. in the Office of the President with the following present: Rector Charles R. Fenwick; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Blanton, Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, Walker, Wilkerson, and Williams. Absent: None. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 24 June 1965, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Robert M. Berne as Professor of Physiology, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. John E. Bloor as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Pamela M. Bloor as Instructor in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Irby B. Brown, Jr. as Junior Instructor in English, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Dr. Ragnar W. Bjorn-Hansen as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 October 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Professor of Computer-Science in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Miss Anne M. Cooley as Junior Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Carolyn L. Copp as Junior Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of Mr. Wilson W. Cowen as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Sarah W. Crews, Head of the Preparations Division of the University of Virginia Library, to rank as Assistant Professor, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Eldon H. Crowell as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Dr. Richard N. deNiord as Lecturer in Surgery, for one year, effective 15 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Miss Harriette E. Duncan as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective 15 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. Linton R. Dunson, Jr. as Junior Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Frank E. Flora as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Eugene Fugle as Instructor in Sociology and Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Wilhelm Godschalk as Instructor in Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Mrs. Marilyn H. Grundig as Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Dr. William D. Haden, Jr. as Lecturer in Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Dr. Stuart H. Harris as Lecturer in Surgery, for one year, effective 15 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Miss Barbara S. Hindson as Junior Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Dr. Earl I. Holmes as Lecturer in Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Dr. James G. Hunter, Jr. as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. Max Isenbergh as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jo Ann R. Kingdon as Instructor in Speech Pathology and Audiology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Charlotte E. Kohler as Associate Professor of English, for five years, effective 1 September 1965.Miss Maret Kukk as Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. James E. Mann, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. David D. Meisel as Instructor in Astronomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert A. Naylor as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Dr. David S. Newcombe as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Donald F. Nieman as Lecturer in Engineering, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Dr. Rosa C. Ogle as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. Charles D. Porterfield as Junior Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Dr. Paxton P. Powers as Lecturer in Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. J. Gaither Pratt as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 January 1966, at no salary from the State.Mr. Frederick L. W. Richardson, Jr. as Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 January 1966, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward J. Rinalducci as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Alan I. Ritter as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Raymond A. Rousseau as Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert J. Sangine as Junior Instructor in Architecture, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Raymond F. Sekula as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Bernard M. Simons as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Margaret M. Sinka as Junior Instructor in German, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles A. Stanley as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas E. Thompson as Professor of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1966, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Frederick W. Towers as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Katharine A. Victor as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert L. Weinberg as Lecturer in Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Dr. Richard A. Wetzel as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 August 1965, at no salary from the State.Mr. John G. Williams as Lecturer in Applied Mathematics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Alfred E. Williamson, III as Junior Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Ilya Wolston as Instructor in Russian, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles G. Wood as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Dr. James E. Wood, III as Professor of Physiology (in addition to his position as Professor of Medicine and Research Professor of Cardiology), for the period 1 July 1965 through 31 August 1966.Mr. Frank R. Woods as Lecturer in Applied Mathematics, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT F. VANDELL
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Robert F. Vandell, as approved by the Board of Visitors on 9 April 1965, be changed from 1 September 1965 to 1 July 1965.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MR. LEON N. DeLARM AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Leon N. DeLarm as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 4 June 1965, be and it is hereby canceled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of .Dr. Julian I. Kitay as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Mr. Paul D. Summers, Jr. as Lecturer in Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1964.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Robert M. Berne, Professor of Physiology and Chairman of the Department of Physiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to accept a post-doctoral fellowship in England to work on cardiac metabolism.Mr. James R. Connor, Assistant Professor of History, for the period 1 September 1965 through 31 May 1966, without pay, to accept an internship in academic administration at Stanford University, sponsored by the American Council on Education.Dr. James D. Deck, Associate Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to seek further training in new techniques in developmental biology at Harvard University.Mr. John F. Hahn, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the period 1 September 1965 through 31 August 1966, without pay, for training in methods of research on sensory nerves at Eaton-Peabody Laboratory in Boston, as holder of USPHS Special Fellowship from the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness.Mrs. Regina M. Mays, Instructor in Nursing, for the period 20 September 1965 through 12 November 1965, without pay, for maternity leave.Mr. W. Bedford Moore, III, Assistant Professor of Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period 1 September 1965 through 31 January 1966, without pay, for the purposes of writing and traveling abroad.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, from Visiting Professor of Law, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Ivar P. Enge, from Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology, to Associate Professor of Radiology, effective 1 August 1965, at a salary of .Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Humanities, to Lecturer in Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at no change in salary.Mr. Edward J. White, from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, to Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Nuzhet O. Atuk, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Dr. Carlos B. Ayers, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Miss Zula M. Baber, Associate Professor of Nursing, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Assistant Professor of Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Surgery, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Martin C. Battestin, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Roger V. Bennett, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. David M. Bevington, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. C. Julian Bishko, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein, Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Joseph N. Bosserman, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Alumni Professor of English, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. E. Roger Boyle, Jr., Associate Professor of Drama, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Clive Bradbeer, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Avery Catlin, Associate Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Associate Professor of Classics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James B. Colvert, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James R. Connor, Assistant Professor of History, at a 12-months salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Lawrence Cranberg, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Leonard T. Curtis, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Paul T. David, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Arnold A. Del Greco, Associate Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert Dolan, Assistant Professor of Geography, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James W. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Assistant Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Johan A. Friedericy, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Michael D. Garrick, Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Luther Y. Gore, Assistant Professor of Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John Graham, Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Jack H. Gwaltney, Jr., Instructor in Preventive Medicine and Instructor in Internal Medicine, at a salary of to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard H. Henneman, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Associate Professor of Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Waverly E. Hester, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Jack O. Howell, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., Clinical Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, at a salary of , effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Alumni Professor of Medicine and Chancellor for Medical Affairs, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard L. Jennings, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert S. Johnson, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 October 1965.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 February 1966.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Donald W. Kupke, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Eugene N. Lane, Assistant Professor of Classics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Hiram G. Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, Associate Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. David W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John L. Longley, Jr., Associate Professor of Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. William B. Looney, Associate Professor of Radiobiology and Biophysics, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace, Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Peter W. Low, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. William C. Lowry, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Jan Lubicz-Nycz, Lecturer in Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Regina C. McCormack, Instructor in Preventive Medicine and Instructor in Internal Medicine, at a salary of to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Fred C. McCormick, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Robert W. McGilvery, Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , plus 20 per cent for summer duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Stephen Manning, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. George B. Matthews, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Daniel J. Meador, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell, Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Douglas G. Mook, Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James W. Moore, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert J. Morgan, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Clarence C. Morrison, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Gabriel A. Nigrin, Instructor in Pediatrics, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Hermon M. Parker, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard E. Peck, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Carlo Pelliccia, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John L. Peterman, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a salary of , effective 1 August 1965.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert L. Ramey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Roger L. Ransom, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Robert C. Regan, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Charles G. Reid, Associate Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. L. Starling Reid, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. William R. Robinson, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Julio A. Salcedo, Instructor in Pathology, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Roy A. Schotland, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Emerson G. Spies, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard J. Sundberg, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Lewis F. Sutton, Instructor in French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. T. Austin Sydnor, Jr., Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology, at a salary of , effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Assistant Professor of Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. David Underdown, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Otis L. Updike, Jr., Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Charles A. Vandersee, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. White M. Wallenborn, Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology, at a salary of , effective 1 July 1965.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. James E. Wesner, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Frederic B. Westervelt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Dr. David C. Wharton, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, at a salary of effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Andrew B. Whinston, Associate Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Mason Willrich, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf, Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Dr. Edward C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Howard Winters, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Edward E. Younger, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1965.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Miss Mary A. Bittner, Instructor in Nursing, effective 4 September 1965, to move to California.Mr. Emery P. Bliesmer, Associate Professor of Education, effective 15 August 1965, to accept a position at Pennsylvania State University.Dr. Jose Carneiro, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective 31 October 1965, to return to Brazil.Mr. William E. Castle, Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 30 June 1965, for personal reasons.Mr. N. Harvey Deal, Assistant Professor (Reference Librarian), effective 31 August 1965, to accept a position as Assistant University Librarian at the University of Cincinnati.Dr. Robert V. DeVito, Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 30 June 1965, for personal reasons.Mr. George L. Farrer, Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 31 August 1965, for personal reasons.Mr. Peter Goethals, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, effective 30 June 1965, for personal reasons.Mr. Norman M. Howe, Jr., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 20 August 1965, for personal reasons.Mr. Jan S. Nilsson, Associate Professor of Physics, effective 30 June 1965, to return to Sweden.Mr. Eugene B. Piedmont, Lecturer in Sociology, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at the University of Massachusetts.Mr. Eugene B. Piedmont, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Sociology), effective 31 July 1965, to accept a position at the University of Massachusetts.Mr. William L. Piotrowski, Instructor in Physics, effective 31 August 1965, to accept a research position in the experimental division of the DuPont Company.Mr. Clarence E. Schwartz, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 15 August 1965, for personal reasons.Dr. Joseph Wolpe, Professor of Psychiatry, effective 30 September 1965, to accept a position in the Temple University School of Medicine.

CANCELLATION OF RESIGNATION OF MRS. MARGARET R. HOFFMAN AS INSTRUCTOR IN NURSING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mrs. Margaret R. Hoffman as Instructor in Nursing, effective 27 August 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Commander Edgar A. Eldridge as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective 7 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Lieutenant (jg) Jay A. Rottier as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective 7 September 1965, at no salary from the State.Major Robert H. Thompson as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective 7 September 1965, at no salary from the State.

Also, the following appointments were announced: Miss Zula M. Baber as Acting Dean of the School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.Dr. Robert M. Berne as Chairman of the Department of Physiology, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Director of the Computer-Science Center in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Chairman of the Diploma Program in the School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 August 1965.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr. as Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology in the School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.Dr. Donald W. Kupke as Acting Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, for the period 1 September 1965 through 31 August 1966.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr. as Director of Institutional Analysis, part time, for the period 1 September 1965 through 30 June 1966.Miss Mary A. MacDougall as Acting Director of the Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett as Acting Registrar of the University, for one year, effective 1 August 1965.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Jr. as Director of the McGuffey Reading Clinic, effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Thomas E. Thompson as Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Theodore R. Turner as Acting Chairman of the Department of Art, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr. as Director of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for three years, effective 26 August 1965.Dr. James E. Wood, III as Acting Chairman of the Department of Physiology, for the period 1 July 1965 through 31 August 1966.

MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1965, for the terms noted:One-Year TermLewis L. StraussTwo-Year TermsJ. C. Herbert BryantPresident of Herbert Bryant, Incorporated, General Asphalt Company, General Paving Company, and a member of the New York Stock ExchangeBaldwin G. LocherPresident and Treasurer, Locher Silica Corporation, Glasgow, VirginiaJ. Hoge TylerPresident, Seaboard Citizens National Bank, Norfolk, VirginiaThree-Year TermsC. Waller BarrettFarmington, Charlottesville, VirginiaEdmund T. DeJarnetteMember, DeJarnette and Paul, Richmond, Virginia

DISCONTINUATION OF NURSING DIPLOMA PROGRAM
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective with the academic year beginning on 1 September 1966, the three-year nursing diploma program be, and it is hereby discontinued; provided, however, that all students who have entered the diploma program in prior years shall be permitted to complete the program and obtain their diplomas under the same standards and conditions as have prevailed in the past.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT
--------------------

The President reported on the enrollment in the College and the schools for the academic session 1965-66.

CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDIES IN THE SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1965, there is hereby established the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences of the University of Virginia.

BLANDY EXPERIMENTAL FARM
------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a special committee of three members to be appointed by the Rector for the purpose of considering and reporting to the Board on the future use of Blandy Experimental Farm by the University; this committee to complete its labors and report to the Board of Visitors not later than the February 1966 meeting of the Board.

SECURITY CLEARANCE
------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia has, in the past, been and may, in the future, be requested to conduct research and training for the United States of America requiring the execution of contracts providing financial support;WHEREAS, current regulations of agencies of the Federal government for safeguarding information classified as important to the security and defense of the United States require that individual members of this Board and principal officers of the corporation meet personnel clearance requirements of those agencies;WHEREAS, said regulations permit the exclusion from the personnel clearance requirements of other members of the Board and other officers who have no need for access to classified material, provided that this action is recorded in the minutes of this Board;WHEREAS, on 7 October 1959 the President and Comptroller were designated as the only University officers having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of Department of Defense contracts; andWHEREAS the President, Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and the Comptroller, Vincent Shea, do possess the required security clearance;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and the Comptroller are designated as the only University officers having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of contracts with the United States government;BE IT RESOLVED FURTHER that in the future, when any individual enters the duties of President or Comptroller, such individual shall immediately make application for the required security clearance; andBE IT RESOLVED FURTHER that members of the Board of Visitors and other University officers, who do not require access to classified information in the conduct of University business need not possess a security clearance, but said persons can be effectively denied, and shall not be granted access to classified information in the possession of the University and shall not hold any position that would enable them to affect adversely University policies or practices in the performance of classified contracts for the United States government.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts. etc.

$ 57,423.70

Free service to counties and cities

207,554.12

\----------

Total

$264,977.82

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1285, 1286, 1292, 1293, 1294A, 1301, 1302, 1304, and 1305, aggregating $264,977.82, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts. etc.$ 57,423.70Free service to counties and cities207,554.12----------Total$264,977.82

DEPARTMENT OF AEROSPACE ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERING PHYSICS
-----------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the name of the Department of Aerospace Engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Science has been changed to Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Physics, effective 1 October 1965, and that Mr. Ralph A. Lowry has been named Chairman of the new department.

REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE FUTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the establishment of the Committee on the Future of the University.

REPORT ON BIENNIAL BUDGET
-------------------------

The President reported on the Biennial Budget Request to the Governor and General Assembly for 1966-68.

GIFT OF CHESTER F. CARLSON
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby express our grateful thanks to Mr. Chester F. Carlson for his gift of securities valued at approximately $150,000, of which $50,000 is to be used to support the current research of Dr. Ian Stevenson and the remainder to constitute the principal of a Trust to support future work in parapsychology; andRESOLVED FURTHER that, while we respect and shall abide by the desire of Mr. Carlson that no publicity be given to this gift, we want him to know that it is gifts such as these which are so important in enabling the University to reach and maintain a high standard of excellence in its teaching and research programs.

GIFT OF MRS. FRANCES COLEMAN TOMS
---------------------------------

The President announced the receipt of a gift from Mrs. Frances Coleman Toms of Litton Industries shares valued at $1,000 to the University of Virginia for the Zach Toms Scholarship Fund memorializing Mr. Zach Toms and to be used for the assistance of deserving Virginia boys.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the members of the Board have learned with special pleasure of the generous gift of Mrs. Frances Coleman Toms; andWHEREAS the Zach Toms Scholarship Fund is highly valued by us, both individually and corporately, as a memorial to a devoted Alumnus, a life member of the Alumni Association, a Sponsor Trustee of the Graduate School of Business Administration, and an always generous supporter of the University's causes; andWHEREAS we welcome the continuing happy relationship between Mrs. Frances Coleman Toms and the University of Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for this gift and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the donor as a mark of our warm appreciation.

TECHNICAL SERVICES ACT OF 1965
------------------------------

The President reported to the Board on the efforts being made to have the University designated as the principal agency in Virginia under the terms of the Federal Technical Serices Act of 1965.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. David R. Costello as Instructor in History, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Lewis Diana as Visiting Professor of Sociology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Henry L. Halem as Instructor in Art, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Jaroslaw Pekar as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Russian), for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Miss Eva I. Shipstone as Visiting Professor of Psychology, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, at a salary of .Mr. Paul C. Slayton, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Marie G. Uguen as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Martha G. Darby as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Instructor in Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. J. Russell Nazzaro, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Joseph C. Vance, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD A. BRASHARES AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Richard A. Brashares as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 9 April 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MRS. LOIS A. JORDAN AS INSTRUCTOR IN ART (CERAMICS)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mrs. Lois A. Jordan as Instructor in Art (Ceramics), part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 9 April 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Joseph Bozicevic, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Russian), for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, with one-half pay, to complete the requirements for his doctorate at Georgetown University.Miss Mildred A. Droste, Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one semester, effective 1 February 1966, with one-half pay, to pursue graduate study at the University of North Carolina in Greensboro.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. L. Clyde Carter as Chairman of the Department of Sociology for the period 1 September 1965 through 30 June 1966.Miss Pauline G. King as Chairman of the Department of Art, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

EASEMENT TO CITY OF FREDERICKSBURG
----------------------------------

Chancellor Simpson reported to the Board that a number of years ago The Rector and Visitors on behalf of Mary Washington College had granted an easement for a right of way to give Mr. Spratt access to his property, such easement being over lands of Mary Washington College; that Mr. Spratt under misconception of his title to this right of way, had undertaken to dedicate the same to the City of Fredericksburg; that it has been discovered after the City had placed utilities in the right of way and paved it as a City street for part of the distance desired, it did not have a proper grant of easement from The Rector and Visitors. The City was now requesting such grant.

Chancellor Simpson stated that a grant to the City of Fredericksburg of a perpetual easement for a street would be advantageous to the College property which would abut thereon for the entire distance of the proposed easement, since the City would maintain it as a City street and also maintain the utilities therein.

After discussion, upon Motion duly made and seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, The Rector and Visitors having authority so to do under the provisions of Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia grant to the City of Fredericksburg a perpetual easement sixty feet in width, for the purposes of a street, to be maintained as such by said City, over the lands of Mary Washington College the route and length of such easement to be approved by the Chancellor of Mary Washington College;

RESOLVED, further, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, an instrument granting such easement to the City of Fredericksburg, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board, be and either of them is hereby, authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instrument and to attest the same, provided, however, that such instrument when submitted for execution has been approved as to form by the University's special counsel.

APPROVAL OF 1966-68 BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUEST
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Biennial Budget Request by Mary Washington College to the Governor and General Assembly for 1966-68 be and it is hereby approved.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

Anonymous Gift for Summer Research

$ 6,000

Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund

10,000

The Chancellor announced the following gifts and grants:

Anonymous Gift for Summer Research$ 6,000Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund10,000

AUTHORIZATION FOR ACCEPTANCE OF DuPONT GIFT
-------------------------------------------

Chancellor Simpson reported to the Board that Jessie Ball duPont (Mrs. Alfred I. duPont) had presented to Mary Washington College, 100 shares of the common stock of General Motors Corporation, represented by Stock Certificates Numbers 985-953 and 985-954 for 50 shares, each, the proceeds to be added to the Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund. Mrs. duPont requested that no publicity be given this contribution.

The stock power which was enclosed with the certificates assigned them to Mary Washington College and, in order to complete the transfer, the transfer agents required a resolution from the Board authorizing a particular officer of Mary Washington College to carry the transfer through to a conclusion.

Upon motion, duly seconded, it was,

RESOLVED, that Edgar E. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute, in the name and on behalf of said Mary Washington College, a stock power directing the transfer of 100 shares of the common stock of General Motor Corporation to Hamac & Company.

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT
--------------------

The Chancellor reported on the enrollment at the College for the academic year 1965-66 and distributed for the Board's review a profile of this year's entering class.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard A. Davidson as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Gunter Weinforth as Lecturer in Modern Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Donald I. Weinstein as Instructor in English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Lecturer in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. John B. Smith, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Lecturer in Sociology, for the period 1 September 1965 through 30 January 1966, without pay, to complete requirements for the Ph.D. degree at the University of Kentucky.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Bernard C. Dornisch, Instructor in Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. David A. Bankes as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Nancy C. Brooks as Lecturer in Spanish, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Mr. James E. Clark as Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert C. Krug as Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 August 1965, at a session salary of ; plus 20 per cent for summer duties, ; plus for administrative duties; or a total salary of .Miss Janine A. Lavanceau as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Sidney T. Mathews as Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Eugenie V. Mielczarek as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Evelyn L. Pugh as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Mr. Samuel O. Ruff as Lecturer in English, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .Miss Carol A. Ulsafer as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert T. Vance as Lecturer in Political Science, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Ruth A. Flint, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.Mrs. Mary D. Sigafoos, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Ray M. Dowe, Lecturer in Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.Mr. Richard H. Pierce, Assistant Professor of Accounting, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Robert C. Krug as Dean of the College, Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, and Director of the Summer Session, effective 1 August 1965.

FOUR-YEAR STATUS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we approve a four-year status for George Mason College and direct the President to seek the necessary approval for a change from a two-year to a four-year status from the State Council of Higher Education.

REPORT ON GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
------------------------------

The President reported on a letter he had received from an attorney representing six former members of the faculty of George Mason College requesting a meeting with the President and a committee of the Board on the matter. After the letter was read to the Board and after discussion, the following resolution was adopted without dissent:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby directed to inform the attorney representing the former faculty members at George Mason College who resigned last spring that his clients had voluntarily and on their own initiative submitted their resignations, that the resignations had been accepted, and that so far as the Board is concerned the matter is closed.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Dorothy Z. Mills as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Joe H. McGee as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Glenn K. Powell as Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , plus 20 per cent for summer duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Leon F. Punsalan as Assistant Professor of Engineering (Physics), for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mrs. Judith H. True, Instructor in English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1965.

HAMPTON ROADS CENTER MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William D. Benham as Instructor in Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. George M. Daniel as Instructor in French, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MRS. LUCILLE E. WHYBURN AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Madison Field Office of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 4 June 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

GIFT OF LAND FOR MADISON CENTER
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee on 14 August 1965 in accepting the gift by the Joint Board of Control of the Counties of Culpeper, Orange, Green, Rappahannock, and Madison for the Madison Center of the University of Virginia, of approximately five acres of land in the northern part of the Town of Madison, to be used for the purpose of constructing a building to house the Madison Center, be and it is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSELECTION
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Carol A. Carr as Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

ROANOKE CENTER MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert G. Coffeen as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. A. Eugene Crotty as Instructor in Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mrs. Rosalind L. McFarland as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward C. Nininger as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .Miss Anna W. Stant as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. FRANK E. FLORA AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Frank E. Flora as Assistant Professor of Education at the Roanoke Center of the School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of , as approved by the Board on 4 June 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.

SOUTHWEST VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph R. Earnest as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at a session salary of , plus 20 per cent for administrative duties and summer work, or a total salary of .

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 6:10 p.m.

WC:rw
