---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1965'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
ELECTIONSCHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. JOHN S. HORSLEY, IIIRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVES OF ABSENCECHANGES OF TITLESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRETIREMENTSELECTION OF MESSRS BENTON, RORER, DR. WADDELL, AND DR. WOODWARD AS PROFESSORS EMERITIRESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTSDEATH OF MR. WALTER R. FRANKEDEATH OF MR. WILLIAM M. GRIFFINREPORT ON THE HONOR SYSTEMIIICOMMITTEES FOR 1965-1966THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF ARCHITECTURERENT INCREASEAPPROVAL BY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF 1966-68 BIENNIAL BUDGET REQUESTADOPTION OF 1965-66 UNIVERSITY BUDGETREPORT OF THE MANUAL COMMITTEEALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORTMEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTEGIFT OF REAL ESTATE IN PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY, VIRGINIA BY MR. AND MRS. KENT D. CURRIEREPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEERENOVATION OF MONTEBELLOMILLER TRUST FUNDAMENDMENTS TO CLINICAL PRACTICES AGREEMENTGIFT OF SITE FOR ROANOKE CENTERAUTHORIZATION OF NEW DEGREESEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAPPRECIATION FOR GIFT OF THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONLEAVE OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSAPPOINTMENTINCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALEPROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT OF CONSTRUCTION FEERESIDENTIAL FEEDISCONTINUATION OF DEGREE IN HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATIONADOPTION OF THE 1965-1966 COLLEGE BUDGETCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCECHANGE OF TITLEAPPOINTMENTGEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONSPROMOTIONCHANGES OF TITLERESIGNATIONSREPORT OF THE PRESIDENTPATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONPROMOTIONPROPOSED SITE FOR PATRICK HENRY COLLEGEEASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONSPROMOTIONSLEAVE OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENTSLYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONSMADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONRICHMOND CENTER MATTERSELECTIONAPPOINTMENTROANOKE CENTER MATTERSELECTIONRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance Committee

Mr. Blanton, Chairman

Mr. Camp

Mr. Hobbs

Mr. Montague

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Lewis, Chairman

Mr. Cross

Mrs. Lantor

Mrs. Parrish

Mr. Rogers

Athletics Committee

Mr. Faulconer, Chairman

Mr. Hobbs

Mr. Johnson

Mr. Lewis

Mr. Walker

Medical Committee

Dr. Kendig, Chairman

Mr. Kuykendall

Mr. Walker

Mr. Williams

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mr. Montague, Chairman

Mr. Camp

Mr. Faulconer

Mr. Kuykendall

Mr. Williams

Educational Policy Committee

Mrs. Lantor, Chairman

Mr. Blanton

Mr. Johnson

Dr. Kendig

Mrs. Parrish

Mr. Wilkerson

Mr. Williams

Present per month

Proposed per month

New Copeley

56 - 1 bedroom apartments

$ 73 00

$ 78.00

56 - 2 bedroom apartments

87.00

92.00

8 - 3 bedroom apartments

95 00

105 00

University Gardens

40 - 1 bedroom apartments

$ 75.00

$ 80 00

28 - 2 bedroom apartments

90.00

95 00

Old Copeley

8 - 1 bedroom apartments

$ 43 50

$ 48 50

80 - 2 bedroom apartments

47 00

52 00

20 - 3 bedroom apartments

51 00

56 00

22 - Trailers

20 00

25 00

Piedmont Estates

1 - 1 bedroom apartment

$ 70 00

$ 80 00

16 - 2 bedroom apartments

85 00

95 00

16 - Houses

85 00

95 00

Bad debts, etc.

$ 8,431 56

Free service to counties and cities

56,237 39

Total

$ 64,668 95

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President with the following present. Rector Charles R. Fenwick, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Blanton, Camp, Cross, Faulconer, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lantor, Lewis, Montague, Parrish, Rogers, Walker, and Williams. Absent: Visitor Wilkerson Comptroller Vincent Shea was present during the consideration of the 1965-1966 University Budget Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the called meeting and the regular meeting both held on 9 April 1965, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Miss Nancy E. Ballard as Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a salary of $9,250.

Mr. Nicholas G. Bohatiuk as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,900, of which $500 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Edward B. Brandt as Junior Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $1,900.

Mr. Robert O. Burdick as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,200.

Mr. James T. Cargile as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000.

Miss Lillie O. Chang as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Dr. Christian V. Cimmino as Lecturer in Radiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Panayiotes D. Constantinides as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000.

Mr. Leon N. DeLarm as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400.

Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Miss Fernande Gontier as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,200.

Mr. Edgar J. Gunter as Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $11,000.

Mr. J. Bradley H. Gunter as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $3,050.

Mr. William H. Hutt as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 February 1966, at a session salary of $15,000, of which $10,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Clauston L. Jenkins, Jr. as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $2,950.

Mr. Ivan D. Johnson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. David C. Jordan as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,200, of which $4,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Miss Karin Kutsche as Junior Instructor in German, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $5,900.

Mr. Albert C. Labriola as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $3,050.

Mr. Wilmer E. Moomaw as Junior Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $2,850.

Dr. Edwin S. Munson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $19,000, of which $13,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Fredrik A. Muller as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000, of which $4,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Raymond P. Rhinehart as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,400.

Mrs. Willie L. Rose as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000.

Mr. Raymond N. Sabatini as Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,800.

Mr. Werner K. Sensbach as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $12,500.

Mr. Roger P. Sherman as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,200, of which $400 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Alexander J. Susskind as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,700.

Mr. Robert L. Tomlin, Jr. as Lecturer in Applied Mathematics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $1,700.

Mrs. Hilda G. von Mises as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1965, at a salary of $5,000.

Mr. Robert Warren as Visiting Lecturer in the Graduate School of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1965, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Wilmot H. Webb as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,600.

Mr. Thomas C. Westfall as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $11,600.

Miss Eleanor C. Westhead as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Clyde P. White as Junior Instructor in English, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $4,575.

Mr. Frank A. Williar as Lecturer in Education, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $ 3,550.

Mr. Martin J. Zuckermann as Assistant Professor of Physics, three-eighths time, for two years, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. John S. Horsley, III, as approved by the Board of Visitors on 9 April 1965, be and it is hereby changed from 1 September 1965 to 1 July 1965, for three years.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Carrie E. Boyle as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 October 1965, at a salary of $9,600.

Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 April 1965, at a salary of $9,600.

Dr. Ivar P. Enge as Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology, for six months, effective 1 May 1965, at a salary of $17,000, of which $15,000 is to be paid from local funds.

Mr. Guy Estes as Assistant Professor of Forestry, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Arthur G. Foster as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. George M. Gerken as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Leo M. Hall as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. James M. Lane as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Jan Lubicz-Nycz as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,000.

Mr. Neil G. McCormick as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 January 1966.

Dr. Francis H. McGovern as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Ronald P. Melnik as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,400.

Mr. Rudolf Plattner as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, two-fifths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Willis G. Ryckman as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000.

Mr. Robert L. Searls as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Abraham W. Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Dr. Carlos R. Ayers, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $12,500.

Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $13,400.

Dr. Alfred J. Bollet, Associate Professor, to Professor of Preventive Medicine, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $11,400.

Mr. Bernard W. Busse, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965.

Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology and Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Ernst S. Dick, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,000.

Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 June 1965.

Mr. Walter Hauser, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,000.

Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Paul E. Kelly, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,400.

Mrs. Miriam H. King, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Dr. Lockhart B. McGuire, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $12,500.

Mrs. Betty C. Matthias, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mrs. Regina M. Mays, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 27 July 1965.

Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1965.

Dr. Alfon B. Mosca, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Miss Eva R. Parker, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Dr. Melville P. Roberts, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. William H. Seawell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Oliver L. Steele, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Burette S. Tillinghast, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965.

Miss Mary A. Watkins, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 15 June 1965.

Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Dermatology, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. David W. Weiss, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Drama, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $10,400.

Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $30,000, of which $20,000 is to be paid from local funds.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. William F. Beazer, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to serve as Minority Counsel on the Joint Economic Committee, United States Congress.

Mr. Truman A. Botts, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to become Executive Director of a special mathematics committee of the National Academy of Sciences.

Mr. Billy J. Gilpin, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to complete research at North Carolina State University required for the Ph.D. in Mathematics.

Mr. C. Alan Hutchinson, Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to continue research and writing on a book.

Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to study at the University of California at Berkeley, California, while holding a National Science Foundation Faculty Fellowship.

Mr. James L. Meem, Jr., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period 1 July 1965 through 31 August 1965, without pay, to serve as Visiting Staff Member with the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

Mr. Morris E. Rose, Professor of Physics, for the period 15 September 1965 through 30 November 1965, without pay, to lecture in the Physics Department of the Universities of Trondheim, Norway, and Frankfurt, Heidelberg, and Freiburg, Germany.

Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics, for the period 15 June 1965 through 31 August 1965, without pay, to travel.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Philip J. Allen, from Lecturer in Sociology and Anthropology, one-third time, to Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. William F. Beazer, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. John F. Holley, from Instructor in German, to Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,000.

Dr. Roger J. Meyer, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, effective 1 July 1965, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $19,100, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Professor of Law, at a session salary of $16,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mrs. Helen G. Burr, Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of $11,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $12,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at a salary of $14,500, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Douglas T. Day, III, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of $10,500, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Robert R. Fair, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $12,900, of which $1,500 is to be paid from local funds, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $17,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Bryant C. Freeman, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Lawrence D. Gaughan, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $16,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $11,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Peter W. Low, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., Professor of Law, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $10,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. James W. Moore, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of $11,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $15,800, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Alfred C. Proulx, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of $10,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. William A. Rotch, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $11,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Charles F. Sargent, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $10,400, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Roy A. Schotland, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $11,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Charles S. Sheppard, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $16,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Clyde R. Smith, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $8,800, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $12,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $15,000, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. James E. Wesner, Assistant Professor of Law, at a session salary of $9,600, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Calvin Woodard, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of $12,000, effective 1 September 1965.

The President announced the retirement of Mr. Arthur F. Benton, Professor of Chemistry, Mr. Francis Duke, Associate Professor of French, Mr. John A. Rorer, Professor of Education, Mr. Philip H. Ryan, Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, Dr. William W. Waddell, Jr., Professor of Pediatrics, and Dr. Fletcher D. Woodward, Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology Mr. Benton has been a member of the faculty since September 1924, Mr. Duke has been a member of the faculty since September 1938, Mr. Rorer has been a member of the faculty since August 1929, Mr. Ryan has been a member of the faculty since October 1946, Dr. Waddell has been a member of the faculty since July 1924, and Dr. Woodward has been a member of the faculty since April 1925.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby elected Professors Emeriti:

Mr. Arthur F. Benton, Professor of Chemistry, who retires in June 1965, and has been on the staff of the University since September 1924.

Mr. John A. Rorer, Professor of Education, who retires in June 1965, and has been on the staff of the University since August 1929.

Dr. William W. Waddell, Jr., Professor of Pediatrics, who retires in June 1965, and has been on the staff of the University since July 1924.

Dr. Fletcher D. Woodward, Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, who retires in June 1965, and has been on the staff of the University since April 1925.

The following resignations were announced:

Mrs. Vera R. Brand, Assistant Professor of Nursing, one-half time, effective 15 July 1965, for personal reasons.

Mr. Francis J. Brooke, Associate Professor of German, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position as Executive Dean and Professor of German at Centre College.

Dr. William N. Evans, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective 1 July 1965, to accept the position of Chief of the Department of Radiology in the Burlington County Hospital, Mt. Holly, New Jersey.

Mr. Jack D. Hain, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective 31 July 1965, to accept a position at the University of Alabama Medical Center.

Mr. William D. Hedges, Associate Professor of Education, effective 31 August 1965, to accept a position as Director of Research and Coordinator of Instruction for the Clayton Public School System in Missouri.

Mrs. Margaret R. Hoffman, Instructor in Nursing, effective 27 August 1965, to go with her husband to another country.

Mrs. Elizabeth Hughes, Instructor in Nursing, effective 27 August 1965, to go with her husband to another city.

Mr. Richard A. Johnson, Instructor in English, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at Mt. Holyoke College.

Mrs. Linda A. Lacey, Junior Instructor in Nursing, effective 30 June 1965, to go with her husband to another city.

Mr. Edward W. Lautenschlager, Assistant Professor of Biology and Registrar of the University, effective 31 July 1965, to accept the position of Dean of Roanoke College in Salem, Virginia.

Mr. Larry N. Mann, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 30 June 1965, to accept an appointment at the University of Massachusetts.

Mrs. Judith K. Matthews, Instructor in Nursing, effective 25 June 1965, to go with her husband to another city.

Mrs. Virginia R. Partain, Instructor in Nursing, effective 2 July 1965, to go with her husband to another city.

Dr. William S. Stickley, Clinical Instructor in Anesthesiology, effective 30 June 1965, to enter private practice of Anesthesiology in Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Mrs. Ann Gill Taylor, Instructor in Nursing, effective 27 August 1965, to go with her husband to another city.

The following appointments were announced:

Miss Mary A. Bittner, as Chairman of the Diploma Program in the School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 August 1965.

Mr. E. Roger Boyle as Chairman of the Department of Speech and Drama, for five years, effective 1 July 1965.

Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Chairman of the Baccalaureate Program in the School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 August 1965.

Mr. Alan L. Caspar as Acting Director of the Blandy Experimental Farm, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Paul S. Dulaney as Chairman of the Division of City Planning in the School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Clinton R. Edwards as Acting Chairman of the Department of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Ralph Eisenberg as Assistant Director of the Institute of Government, for the period 1 May 1965 through 30 June 1968.

Mr. Guy Estes as Director of Seward Forest, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. John F. Harlan, Jr. as Director of the University Hospital, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Alexandre Kafka as Acting Chairman of the Department of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Peter W. Low as Assistant Dean of the School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Chairman of the Department of Liberal Arts, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Richard S. Mitchell as Acting Chairman of the Department of Geology, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Frederick D. Nichols as Chairman of the Division of Architecture in the School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. G. Warren Nutter as Chairman of the Department of Economics, for one year, effective 1 June 1965.

Mr. William B. O'Neal as Chairman of the Division of Architectural History in the School of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. Grover C. Pitts as Acting Chairman of the Department of Physiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

Mr. L. Starling Reid as Chairman of the Department of Phychology, for five years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Wayne A. Wallace as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. D. Alan Williams as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, for the period 1 September 1965 and ending 30 June 1970.

Mr. Walter R. Franke, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, died on 12 April 1965 after a brief illness. He had been on the staff of the University since 15 September 1956.

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Franke was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to Mrs. Franke and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Franke's distinguished and devoted service to the University.

Mr. William M. Griffin, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs and Assistant Director of the Institute of Government, died on 22 May 1965 after a lengthy illness. He had been on the staff of the University since 1 July 1960.

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Mr. Griffin was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to Mrs. Griffin and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Mr. Griffin's distinguished and devoted service to the University.

At the request of several members of the Board, the President asked four persons to appear before the Board and report on the current situation with respect to the Honor System. These individuals were Mr. B. F. D. Runk, Dean of the University, Mr. Benjamin C. Ackerly, Chairman of the Honor Committee, 1964-1965, Mr. George H. Morison, Chairman of the Honor Committee, 1965-1966, and Dean Hardy C. Dillard of the School of Law and a member of the Special Advisory Committee appointed by the Secretary of the Air Force to investigate the cheating scandal at the Air Force Academy.

Dean Runk's remarks were as follows:

May I point out that I have been associated with the Honor System of the University for a period of nearly forty years. In addition, I have been privileged to work closely with the administration of the Honor System, both as a student and more lately as a member of the faculty and administration. Over this span I have seen changes occur in the System and its application to our way of life. I well remember pledged dances held during my student days, the application of the pledge to athletic training, and the drinking pledge applied by the revered Dean Jimmy Page to those students who, at times, were inclined to imbibe too often and too freely. I also remember when the writing of a bad check was considered a violation of the Honor System unless a valid reason was given in a hurry.

Over the years changes have taken place and I believe will continue to take place as long as the System remains a part of our changing society. These changes came about through a change in the mores and thinking of our student body - the group in whose hands the Honor System rests.

Today the System as applied to the classroom works well and effectively. The number of violations is not great, but some do occur, and those students charged with a violation for the most part are found guilty and are dismissed.

There are certain areas which should be watched with concern and to which the Honor Committee should be particularly alert.

Too often today the question of intent is raised in questions of honor violations. This year a student entered Newcomb Hall after the building was secured for the night, and pried loose a speaker in one of the Hi-Fi music listening rooms. He took this back to his room in the dormitory and within the next day or so took it to Northern Virginia where he left it at the home of a friend. When charged with stealing, his plea was that he did not intend to keep the speaker and thus he was not guilty of a violation of the Honor System. He was found not guilty by the Honor Committee.

I do not consider a statement to the effect that "I did not intend to cheat" should free a man from the Honor System.

One of the procedural features of the present system is that both sides may be represented by counsel from the student body. Too often the defense counsel, normally a third-year Law student assigned to the case by the Honor Committee, will use the honor trial as a time and place to demonstrate his legalistic training.

The chairman of the Committee must be on guard constantly to assure that only the facts of the case are presented.

During the past few years there have been rumblings that the Honor System should be codified so that what a student can do and cannot do under the System is specifically spelled out. It does not appear to me that the spirit implied in the Honor System can or should be codified.

One particular aspect of present day attitudes that bothers me is the feeling on the part of some students that it is permissable to not be open and above board with those in the lower administrative brackets. It appears to be something of a game to get away with lying as a means for beating the University administration in the enforcement of motor vehicle rules and regulations. The use of decals to which they are not entitled, or the open falsification of registration decals is not considered by all students to be dishonest. Others do not even feel it is wrong to sign a card stating that they do not own or operate a motor vehicle at the very time they have a motor vehicle here to which they, as students, are not entitled. It appears that a dishonest mental reservation is being made by some in the perennial game of beating the administration. I have recently been asked by the Student Government to refrain from requesting students to indicate by a monthly letter their compliance with a state of probation. The reason given is that this will place a strain on the Honor System. They also express the feeling that the Honor System is being used to enforce an administrative matter. Such illogical reasoning could lead to a condition where honorable conduct would be enforced only when it did not adversely affect a student's interests.

The Bad Check Committee is overworked and has a thankless job because of checks returned marked "Insufficient Funds." True, the banks do make many errors but the number of bad checks grows each year and the writing of such is no longer considered by many to be wrong.

The attitudes I have expressed are symptomatic of the present times. The concept of honor is no longer part of the life of many people. It is not always found in the home and often not in government. I fear that some of our students have come from backgrounds where the appreciation and understanding of honor is lacking. It is difficult for them to immediately understand all that is demanded here. Applications for admission to all schools now require the applicant to state that he is willing to subscribe to and support the Honor System. New faculty members should also be willing to live with and cooperate with our way of life.

We must all work together to keep and make more perfect the noble tradition which has been so much a part of the University since 1842.

Mr. Ackerly's remarks were as follows:

The Honor Committee has made extensive efforts over the past year to improve its effectiveness and to protect itself and the University from possible charges that might develop out of such a situation.

With the help of some of our students in the law school the Honor Committee has sought the advice of experts in the respective fields of science criminology. Twice this year we have sent papers to Washington, D.C. to be examined by one of the foremost documents experts in the country. These papers have been checked for handwriting similarities, erasures and the time interval in which the work was done. On other occasions we have called in the services of scientific experts in the University community itself to aid us, and we work closely with the Department of Security.

These pretrial measures sometimes eliminate the necessity for any Honor Trial because they substantiate any doubt which the parties may have had. This expert advice is an invaluable service to the Honor Committee, and aids us a great deal in reaching a just verdict.

On the other side of the spectrum we initiated some new procedures this year to protect the Honor Committee. When a student notifies the Honor Committee that he has been charged with an honor violation and requests a trial he is informed that he has to notify his parents of the fact. If he doesn't notify his parents then the Chairman of the Honor Committee does. If a student is in his first year his dormitory counselor is notified of the situation and advised to keep an eye out for the boy.

Arrangements have been made this year with Student Health and the University Hospital to take care of a student prior to or after a trial if we or a doctor feels that he is mentally upset and cannot control himself. (If a student was mentally unsound at the time of the offense then we request that he be dismissed from the University for medical reasons.)

Immediately following a trial the accused notifies his parents of the outcome of the trial. A first year student's dormitory counselor is also notified of the results and advised to keep an eye out for the student.

These measures are designed so that the parents of the boy will be aware of the situation so in the event of an unforseen accident the parents cannot claim that they did not know what was going on. Our measures are by no means fool proof, but we have had no unfortunate accidents that would reflect discredit on the Honor System or the University of Virginia.

This year we have been amazingly successful in obtaining admission to other colleges for those students who are dismissed from the University. We are trying to eradicate the air and feeling that exists here that an Honor Violation is the end of the world. This is a popular notion among students which certainly is not true and I believe to be unhealthy for the Honor System.

For those of you who have followed the situation at the Air Force Academy I may note that the University is certainly not above such a development. More than a month before the official report was released Dean Dillard of the Law School spoke to a closed session of the Honor Committee advising them of what had been discovered in their survey of the Air Force Academy. I can assure you that his advice fell on anxious ears and will be carried out to the letter.

As you well know the Honor Committee never publishes any of the names of the people involved in a possible honor infraction. If the case is dismissed all records and evidence are destroyed. If a student is found guilty a transcript of the trial is kept in file by the Honor Committee and the registrar is notified of the dismissal so that he may officially contact the parents. A notice appears in the "Cavalier Daily" stating the offense, but no names ever appear.

After a year of close work with the Honor System several pertinent problems have come to mind which will have to be dealt with shortly. The expanding enrollment, especially in the graduate schools, is making it doubly difficult for the Honor Committee to orientate everyone. Effective orientation is still maintained with first year students through the dormitory complex, but no such control is available for graduate students. Second, there is a prevailing mood created by the generation in which we live to try to shirk authority and get away with what you can. It is no secret that personal honor is no longer regarded by all the way it was twenty or thirty years ago. Of course this is a creeping problem and probably the most dangerous. The Honor System has successfully followed the train of time by denying any codification and I sincerely believe that this is the only way it can continue to exist. The students are the ones who interpret the Honor System and although it may not be as astringent as it has been it certainly reflects student opinion and this is the way it should be.

Mr. Morison's remarks were as follows:

The maintenance of the System today continues to be a task of redefinition and alertness to potential dangers and weaknesses. As has been the case since its inception in 1842, the System remains entirely in the hands of the students and it is the student's individual responsibility to determine what is or is not an honor offense. It is the Honor Committee's responsibility to uphold the spirit of the Honor System in light of student opinion.

"Spirit" and "redefinition" are key words in the understanding of the Honor System. Whereas the tendency at institutions at large has been towards codification, we specifically avoid any such tendency here. Flexability and an ability to adopt \[sic\] to the times have been important factors in the continued success of the Honor System. The history of the System has been one of changes, matters that were not considered honor offenses ten years ago are considered honor offenses today, and matters that were considered honor offenses ten years ago are not considered such today. It is the Honor Committee's task to continually redefine what is a "lie," a "cheat," or a "theft" in areas where the offense is not flagrant and the interpretation is vague.

In examining past case histories, observing the attitudes of the students through the eyes of people who have been here a great deal longer than myself, discussing the status of the Honor System today with past Chairmans \[sic\] and evaluating what one might call "the atmosphere of honor" that prevails on the Grounds, I think I can safely say that the Honor System is as strong today as it has ever been. It has the imperative and necessary respect of the students and almost complete co-operation of the faculty and the University community.

There are, however, continual dangers and concern. Over extension of the Honor System constitutes an area of danger. For example, earlier this year the Committee had to request that a Language Laboratory pledge be changed that had asked students to pledge that they "had listened to a tape recorder effectively." The student body did not feel that one should be guilty of an honor offense because he did not listen to a tape recorder "effectively," a word that is vague in itself. Another example is a gym instructor who told his students "to take ten laps or it was an honor offense." Students did not feel that this was a proper application of the Honor System. When students have such feelings concerning any aspect of the System, it leads to a lessening of respect that weakens the System as a whole.

The University's expansion to 10,000 students represents another potential danger. The problems involved in orientating a student body of that size, in maintaining personal contact, and in keeping a "personal" atmosphere that is so vital in establishing a feeling for the System, are paramount ones. The present Committee is investigating what steps must be made during this period of growth to maintain the Honor System at its present strength, and will present a report of its findings and suggestions to the incoming Committee of 1966-67.

A matter of concern to the Honor Committee is the identification card problem in the Athletic Department. This involves the fact that if a student forgets his identification card when going to Scott Stadium, Memorial Gymnasium, or any other athletic contest which requires paid admission, he cannot gain entrance by word of another student who does have his identification card and is willing to pledge that this boy is a student. The refusal of the Athletic Department to take another boy's word in these cases appears to refute the very principle that at the University a gentleman's word is the truth.

Potential dangers and weaknesses, however, will always exist and the before mentioned are merely some examples of ones that are present today. The Honor System as a whole, however, is strong and there are no indications that this strength will decline in the future. This year numerable steps, which Mr. Ackerly will report subsequently, have been taken to further safeguard the system and its consequences within the University.

The burden of maintaining the Honor System falls on the students, and they shoulder that burden gladly. As long as the System remains in the hands of the students, as long as the maintenance of the System is the responsibility of each individual student and no one else, and as long as the System receives the support of the faculty, the administration, and the University community, there need be no fear for the future of the Honor System at the University.

Dean Dillard's remarks in summary were as follows:

Dean Dillard had been invited to appear before the Board to highlight in 10 minutes those aspects of the probe which might have a potential bearing on the future of the honor system and its operation at the University of Virginia.

Dean Dillard divided his talk into three parts. He first rapidly described the composition of the Special Advisory Committee and its method of operation, second, he mentioned several factors which had a tangential bearing on the honor system and, finally, he highlighted three aspects which bore more directly on the problem at Virginia with particular stress on the strains on the honor system resulting from recruiting athletes and treating them as a special subgroup.

The Committee was appointed by the Secretary of the Air Force following a nationally publicized cheating episode at the Air Force Academy, in which 105 cadets out of a student body of 2700 had resigned as a result of exposure by the Office of Special Investigation of the Air Force. The Chairman of the Committee was General Thomas D. White, former Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Other members, apart from Dean Dillard, were Lieutenant General Nazzaro, Deputy Commander of the Strategic Air Command, Robert Stearns, former President of the University of Colorado, and Charles Thornton, President of Litton Industries. The mission of the Committee was not limited to the cheating episode, although stimulated by it. The Secretary, Eugene Zuckert, made it known that he did not want any kind of whitewash and that the Committee report would be made public. This was done. The report ran to 94 pages of text and an additional 20 pages of appendices. The Committee interviewed, as a group, 119 witnesses and an additional 100 were interviewed by individual members of the Committee. The Committee met for 21 working days in Washington, Colorado Springs and California. It believes its report has a significance transcending the Air Force Academy.

Apart from interview, the Committee studied many documents (he estimated they cumulatively added up to about three feet). These included documents on the working of the system at Virginia and speeches made at Virginia. Indeed, some of the language of both his own and Professor Gooch's speeches before Virginia students are reflected in the report.

Among the tangential factors, Dean Dillard noted that the Air Force Academy suffered by virtue of its newness and lack of stability. The command changed frequently and even more significant oscillated frequently between emphasis on "Socrates" to emphasis on "Sergeant York." The problem of how to weld the two images was not successfully accomplished. This had a tangential effect because when you have uncertainty as to one phase of a total system, it tends to carry over into other phases. The "honor system" is not an isolated part of an institutional environment, and when the environmental values of one part are clouded by doubt the doubts tend to spill over into other parts.

Another tangential factor has to do with the fact that the Academy had no "heroes." Heroes are important because they tend to capture the imagination by symbolizing the finer aspirations of an institution or a profession. (Consider Marshall, Holmes, Brandeis, Cardozo and others in law.) Now in the absence of heroes, living or dead, there is a tendency to substitute purely quantitative standards in order to appear excellent. This is innocent enough but when it is overdone, as it was at the A.F.A., it tends to weaken the sense of "honor" because "honor" accents not the end result so much as the way it is reached Dean Dillard gave examples of this tendency.

Turning more specifically to those factors which might have a bearing at Virginia, Dean Dillard first emphasized that there is no use glossing over the fact that there can be a conflict of values between loyalty to friends and loyalty to an honor system. The conflict becomes all the more poignant because friends are concrete whereas honor is abstract. Yet it is of the very essence of an honor system that loyalty to the system transcend loyalty to any single individual or subgroup. Using the analogy of a poker game he explained why an honor system, if correctly understood and adequately communicated, attempts to eliminate doubt on this point and why such terms as "ratting," "squealing," etc. are not appropriate. A good deal of publicity from all over the nation has been directed to this point, so the Committee felt it should not merely state a conviction but spell out the reasons for it very strongly. It attempted to do this and to reinforce its reasoning by using analogies which pointed up sharply the potential conflict in our society between loyalty to friends and higher loyalty to society. This phase of the Committee's report is attached to this summary as an attachment.

The important point in any school with an honor system is to be sure this is clearly understood by all students and the faculty.

These observations brought Dean Dillard to the most critical finding of all. As at West Point ten years earlier so at the A.F.A., the core of the cheating and its spread was sharply centered on the recruited athletes and particularly those engaged in football and basketball. At this point, he showed the Board an elaborate chart graphically disclosing the progressive involvement of those who were and were not recruited athletes. The statistical findings were also eloquent. While only 4% of the entire Wing (as the student body is called) were implicated, no less than 44% of recruited athletes were implicated either as direct peddlers or users of examinations.

Dean Dillard suggested that the reasons for this heavy involvement were not too difficult to discern. They were not attributable, in his opinion, to any sweeping assumption that athletes are inherently morally inferior to others. The Committee considered such an assumption "grotesque." The evil lies in the psychological damage done to the recruited athlete before he comes to college whereby he is made to feel that he is so wanted that general rules don't apply to him, second by the policy of segregating him once he arrives as by special training tables, housing, etc., which reinforces the earlier damage, and third by the intensification of close personal friendships attributable to the tough shared experience which they undergo together. The Committee did not find that academic pressures were extreme, and very few of the athletes were in danger of failing. They just took the easier course and while aware of the system were not sufficiently aware of their higher loyalty to the Wing as a whole or the abstract values implicit in the system.

One wryly humorous remark emerged from an interview which Dean Dillard had with one of the football ring leaders. When questioned as to why he implicated Cadet X but not Cadet Y, he said, "We knew Cadet Y believed in the honor system, so we couldn't trust him. You couldn't trust fellows like Y."

The moral here for Virginia appears clear. It is to be sure so long as we do recruit, that (a) we make it abundantly clear that the student is to be treated on exactly the same plane as all other students, (b) that we imbue all members of the coaching staff with the need to stress this point. They are in a particularly good spot to exercise a healthy influence and to shape a healthy attitude among the squads committed to their charge. (c) While training tables may be a necessary adjunct to the toughening job, any other tendency to segregate the athletes should be resisted and, finally, (d) the whole trend toward bigger and bigger gate receipts and winning for the sake of winning should be resisted because of the subtle effect it has in distorting the values of a university and indirectly imposing a strain on the whole system, of which the honor system is a part. The Committee was quite strong on this point. It suggested that if intercollegiate athletes are deemed an integral part of the total educational experience, it should not be made to depend on gate receipts.

Another finding that might apply to Virginia but one to which the students are sensitive focusses on the need to limit the scope of the honor system. If it is made to bear too heavy a burden, then it might fall of its own weight. That is why, although it may seem illogical to refrain from extending it to all the manifold affairs of life, it is yet wiser to limit it to academic matters or, at least, to matters of honor which are focused on the academic community. At the Air Force Academy, the tendency was noted to stretch the system too far so as to make it cover trivial matters.

Dean Dillard ended on one other note. He said that at the A.F.A., as at West Point, the overwhelming majority of Cadets believed in the honor system and would have bitterly resented any attempt to eradicate it. Nor is there any evidence, in his opinion, that American youth has gone soft and irresponsible. On the other hand, the study on cheating undertaken by a social scientist at Columbia, which the Committee considered, does suggest that in those schools where there is no honor system cheating is pretty rampant, and even in those which have a system it is more prevalent than is generally believed.

The Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next annual meeting in June 1966. Upon motion, duly seconded, the following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee. Mr. Fenwick, Chairman, Mr. Blanton and Mr. Rogers.

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1965-1966. The committee assignments for 1965-1966 are as follows.

The Rector, Mr. Fenwick, is an ex officio member of all committees.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professorship of Architecture be and it is hereby established.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1965, the following monthly rents for the places specified shall be charged:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Executive Committee be and it is hereby authorized to approve the 1966-68 Biennial Budget Request to the Governor and General Assembly prior to the submission of the request to the Governor in August 1965.

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Blanton, submitted for the Board's consideration the proposed 1965-66 University Budget, copies of which had been previously mailed to each member of the Board. Mr. Blanton reported that the Finance Committee at its meeting on the preceding day, 3 June 1965, had reviewed the proposed Budget in detail and that the Committee, at the conclusion of its meeting, had approved the Budget as recommended. Accordingly, the President proposed on behalf of the Finance Committee and the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1965-66 University Budget as recommended by the President and approved by the Finance Committee be and it is hereby approved.

On behalf of the Manual Committee the President reported that, because of the press of other duties, it had not been possible to prepare the draft of the proposed Board Manual in time for presentation at this meeting. Every effort, the President stated, would be made to have a draft ready for consideration at the next meeting in October.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing the Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on 8 December 1962 (Minutes, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, No. 12, 8 December 1962, pp. 376-377).

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. W. Thomas Rice, President of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, Jacksonville, Florida, and Mr. Marston Smith, Attorney at Law of Warsaw, Virginia, be and they are hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, for terms of three years, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS Mr. and Mrs. Kent D. Currie, of Haymarket, Virginia, have made a gift to the University of Virginia of approximately 207 acres in the Gainesville Magisterial District of Prince William County, Virginia, near the town of Haymarket, Virginia,

WHEREAS this magnificent gift has numerous possibilities for effective use in the future educational programs of the University,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express our collective and individual thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Currie for this gift and assure them that it will be put to good use by us and by our successors in the enhancement of the University's efforts, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary be and he is hereby directed to send a copy of this resolution to Mr. and Mrs. Currie.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1277 and 1278, aggregating $64,668 95, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:

The President reported that the renovation of Montebello is near completion and has already been occupied by Dean and Mrs. Hardy C. Dillard.

The President reported that the Miller Trust Fund, since its establishment in 1869 by Samuel Miller, has provided from its income fund for agricultural experiments under the direction of the University of Virginia. From its inception, the Fund has been invested by its Trustees in governmental and corporate bonds and in real estate bonds of individuals. This investment policy has resulted in only a slight increase in the corpus of the Fund to $105,833 55 in June 1964, as compared with a value of $100,000 in 1869. The President has received a request from Mr. William A Perkins, Jr., of the firm of Battle, Neal, Harris, Minor & Williams, on behalf of the Trustees of the Miller Trust Fund, seeking the advice of the Rector and Visitors as to possible change in the investment policy in order that more of the funds may be invested in growth stocks.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we believe that the investment by the Trustees of the Miller Fund in securities with the potential of capital appreciation would not be imprudent or detrimental to the University of Virginia as the beneficiary, and that we see no objection to action by the Trustees looking toward the investment of such portions of the corpus of the Fund in such securities other than bonds and in such a manner as the Trustees may from time to time deem appropriate.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following amendments to the agreement between the University of Virginia and the Geographic Full-time Clinicians of the Faculty of the School of Medicine for the period 1 July 1964 through 30 June 1967 be and they are hereby approved:

1\. The Administration of the School of Medicine of the University of Virginia and the Geographic Full-time Clinicians agree that during the period July 1, 1964-June 30, 1967 the highest income ceiling of the Clinicians shall be $30,000, and provided earnings justify it, there will be further increases in income limits to the maximum permitted by the State of Virginia.

2\. The present contract shall include provisions of the previous contract, July 1, 1961June 30, 1964, specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 referring to the Pool Fund, paragraph 5 referring to departmental appointments, paragraph 6 referring to the "Merit Raise," paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 referring to illness, retirement, resignation, and death of clinicians and paragraph 10 referring to interpretation and adjudication of the contract as follows.

3\. Believing that the "Pool Fund" should be very clearly defined, the Committee offers the following specifications:

(a) The Pool Fund is to be derived solely from contributions from each Clinical Department of only ten per cent (10%) of its gross earnings exclusively from private practice and laboratory services.

(b) Contributions are to be made each month to the Pool Fund which will be held by the Bursar of the University of Virginia for appropriate distribution at or near the end of each fiscal year.

(c) The sole control of the Pool Fund shall rest in the hands of the Clinical Staff and the Dean of the School of Medicine. The Clinical Staff shall be represented by a committee of the Chairmen of all Clinical Departments and the Chairman of the Clinical Staff Standing Committee for Remuneration and Contracts. The Bursar, as custodian of the Pool Fund, shall recommend disbursements from the Fund which must be first approved by the Dean and the Committee of the Chairmen designated in 3(c) above.

(d) Disbursements from the Pool Fund are to be made by the Bursar to the proper Clinical Departments and, in turn, the Clinical Departments will, through the Bursar, distribute the money to the accounts of the individuals.

(e) The Pool Fund cannot be used for Hospital, Medical School or University purposes. It is to be used only for redistribution to Clinical Departments and as further specified in paragraph 4.

(f) The Clinical Departments are to use the Pool Fund first for assuring TIAA contributions of its practicing clinicians and the Dean of the School of Medicine, and second, for assuring, as far as possible, the attainment of their allowed income ceilings by practicing clinicians.

(g) If the Pool Fund should exceed its needs it shall be returned on a pro rata basis to those Clinical Departments whose contributions exceeded their receipts from the Pool Fund. Once returned to Clinical Departments it will be used as specified in paragraph 4.

4\. Any money remaining in a Clinical Department account after its contribution to the Pool Fund, paying its general expenses, paying TIAA contributions for its members and paying its members their collections up to allowed income ceiling shall be distributed as follows one-third to its Reserve Fund, one-third to the Research and Development Fund, and one-third to the Pool Fund. Provided the Pool Fund does not need it the money will be divided equally between the Departmental Reserve Fund and the Research and Development Fund, up to its proportionate share in a Research and Development Fund which may accumulate annually a sum of $25,000. If deficits occur, it is understood that the Pool Fund Committee must provide for them.

5\. A Departmental Chairman wishing to fill a temporarily vacated position or to establish a new position shall, as in the past, get the approval of the Dean and necessary money will automatically become a general departmental expense as specified in paragraph 4, exclusive of anticipated income from the Pool Fund.

6\. The so-called $750 00 "Merit Raise" shall be, as in the past, a matter for the decision of the Departmental Chairman and the Dean and will automatically become a general departmental expense as specified in paragraph 4.

7\. Prolonged illness of a clinician with consequent cessation of his earnings may be, at the discretion of the Department Chairman and the Dean, compensated for as a general departmental expense up to 100% of the clinician's ceiling for the first six months and thereafter the Departmental Chairman and the Dean are to make some suitable arrangement.

8\. Clinicians who have retired from Departmental Chairmanships because of age (65) or other reasons, but remain as members of Clinical Departments until age 70 shall receive their earnings up to their allowed ceilings, less the usual deductions (Pool Fund, 10%, Departmental Expenses, 25%, Withholding Tax). Retired Chairmen who do not reach their allowed earned income ceiling must have the Dean's permission to have their income supplemented by their Department.

9\. The estate of a clinician who dies while still a member of a Department shall retain indefinitely his rights to his earnings up to the time of his death. As a courtesy, however, money collected on his accounts shall be paid monthly to his heir or heirs without deductions for either the Pool Fund or Departmental expenses. Resigned or retiring clinicians likewise shall retain indefinitely their rights in their earnings up to the time of separation from the Department Each year, money collected on his accounts up to his allowed annual ceiling, shall be paid to him monthly after deducting ten per cent (10%) for the Pool Fund and twenty per cent (20%) for Departmental expenses.

10\. Any question as to the interpretation of the provisions of this contract which shall arise during the time it is in force shall be adjudicated by the Clinical Staff Standing Committee for Remuneration and Contracts and the Dean of the School of Medicine.

11\. A clinician who because of resignation wishes to surrender his TIAA-CREF contract shall procure from the Bursar of the University or the TIAA, whichever is empowered to make the payment, a refund of all money deposited by the clinician, by his Department and by the Pool Fund, plus accured interest, and on the same basis, a refund of all sums deposited by the University provided he has completed three years of service on the faculty.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS the Roanoke Center of the School of General Studies of the University of Virginia has in the current academic year reached an enrollment of almost 3,000 students, including 300 full-time day students,

WHEREAS the present quarters of the Center are grossly inadequate for the established mission of the Center and thereby prevent it from meeting the demonstrated need for its educational programs,

WHEREAS the City Council of Roanoke, recognizing the validity of the well-documented and ably presented request of the Advisory Committee of the Roanoke Center, has deeded to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia 35 acres of land, excellently located for the purposes of the Roanoke Center, with the provision that there be constructed upon it an appropriate educational building for the use of the Roanoke Center,

WHEREAS the Governor of the Commonwealth has given his permission for this gift to be accepted,

WHEREAS it is the intention of the University of Virginia to proceed immediately to plan and construct a building adequate to meet the demonstrated needs of the Roanoke area in accordance with the established mission of the Roanoke Center,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the deep appreciation of the University is hereby extended to the members of the City Council of Roanoke, representing the people of Roanoke, for a gift of land that now opens the way for the Roanoke Center of the University of Virginia to fulfill its established educational mission for the Roanoke area.

The President stated that the University Senate, at its meeting on 26 May 1965, had given its approval to the following new degrees. Master of Science in Biophysics, Doctor of Philosophy in Biophysics, and Doctor of Business Administration. The President reported his approval of these degrees and the Board authorized the University to award them by adopting the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby authorize the University to award the following degrees. Master of Science in Biophysics, Doctor of Philosophy in Biophysics, and Doctor of Business Administration.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (1) that the jurisdiction of the Educational Policy Committee be and it is hereby expanded to include the community colleges and branches and (2) that the Committee be and it is hereby authorized and instructed to establish and conduct a planned schedule of visitation to the community colleges and branches to be participated in by such members of the Committee and the remaining members of the Board as can conveniently make arrangements to attend.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby express our deep appreciation to the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation for its magnificent gift of $27,600 on an annual basis to support the award of a distinguished medal and for a distinguished lecturer on an annual basis in the School of Architecture and for the support of 10 scholarships in that School,

AND RESOLVED FURTHER that the addition of this award to that already devoted to the University by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation is a gratifying act in further recognition of the Founder's primary interest in architecture.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Clavio F. Ascari as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,000.

Mr. James E. Baker as Instructor in Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,600.

Miss Marie Bile as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), with special responsibilities for the French House, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $5,700.

Mr. Bernard C. Lemoine as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,500 for the first year.

Mr. George H. Moulton as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mr. Roy F. Riedlinger as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,600.

Mr. Morris Rossabi as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200 for the first year.

Miss Judith A. Sutherland as Assistant Instructor in History and Admissions Counsellor, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $4,500.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,600.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Philip J. Allen, Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, without pay, to accept a one-year appointment at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville.

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. Carvel de Bussy, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), effective 30 June 1965, to accept another position.

Mr. Phillip L. Shew, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at San Francisco State College, California.

Mr. William H. Williams, Assistant Professor of History, effective 30 June 1965, to accept a position at the University of Maryland.

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. J. Russell Nazzaro as Chairman of the Department of Psychology, for five years, effective 1 July 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, subject to the approval of the President and the availability of funds, the salary scale at Mary Washington College be increased by not more than $300 for each step and for each rank, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1966, there is hereby established a construction fee of $45 00 to be charged to all resident students at Mary Washington College, the proceeds of which are to be used for the payment of interest and the retirement of bonds to be issued to finance the construction of Dormitory A and Russell Hall.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the construction fee heretofore established in the amount of $45 00 to be charged to all resident students shall be included as a part of the residential fee which, effective 1 September 1966, shall be established at the annual rate of $271 00.

After a presentation of the background history of the professional Bachelor of Science degree in Health, Physical Education and Recreation at Mary Washington College, the Chancellor reported on the recommendation of the College's Self-Study Report of 1962, and the Visiting Committee Report thereafter, and on the action of the Mary Washington College faculty, at its meeting on 12 May 1965, "that the granting of the professional degree of Bachelor of Science in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation be discontinued as of June 1969."

The Chancellor reported further that the Curriculum Committee of the faculty of the College and the Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation expect to prepare recommendations for consideration by the faculty of an appropriate major or majors in the Department suitable for the academic curriculum of a liberal arts college for women.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to discontinue conferring the professional degree of Bachelor of Science in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation after June 1969, and that, after September 1965, no student will be permitted to enroll in courses directed towards the professional degree in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, except that the degree may be awarded (1) when the requirements have been met after June 1969 on a program begun prior to September 1966, and (2) when in the discretion of the Chancellor an exception should be made.

The Chancellor recommended the approval of the annual budget for 1965-1966 as submitted to and approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee on 3 June 1965. In accordance with his recommendation, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1965-1966 Mary Washington College budget, which has previously been approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee on 3 June 1965, be and it is hereby approved.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Stanley H. Botts as Assistant Professor of Commerce, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $2,025.

Mr. Richard O. Hays as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mr. Chester H. Russell as Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mr. John H. Green, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,600.

Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $8,200.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Edward L. Henson, Jr., Associate Professor of History, for the period 1 June 1965 through 31 August 1966, with half pay, for the purpose of study toward a Ph.D. degree at the University of Virginia.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:

Mr. Marvis C. Webb, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for two years, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,800.

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. Chester H. Russell as Dean of Students, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at a salary of $500 for administrative duties.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected:

Mr. Terrence J. McKenzie as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Jerome L. Segal as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Robert A. Turner as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:

Mrs. Joanne M. J. Baker, Lecturer, to Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,600.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Mrs. Arlette R. Evans, from Lecturer in French, to Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

Mrs. Barbara B. Singleton, from Lecturer in English, to Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,500.

The following resignations were announced:

Mrs. Yveline K. Bretschneider, Assistant Professor of French, effective 30 June 1965.

Mrs. Fanny-Fern Davis, Associate Professor of Biology, effective 30 June 1965.

Mrs. Linda G. De Pauw, Assistant Professor of History, effective 30 June 1965.

Mr. Joseph H. Harrison, Jr., Associate Professor of History, effective 30 June 1965.

The Board approved the following statement:

The Board of Visitors heard an interim report by President Shannon on his inquiry into a controversy concerning the administration of George Mason College, which had been brought to the attention of the Rector by several members of that faculty. The Board confirmed the Rector's decision that this is an administrative matter and expressed its approval of the actions which the President had taken.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr. as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,500.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:

Miss Mary P. Adams, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS Patrick Henry College of the University of Virginia is rapidly outgrowing its initial facilities, which were provided by the School Board of the City of Martinsville and renovated and equipped by appropriation of more than $30,000 by the governing bodies of the City of Martinsville and the Counties of Patrick and Henry,

WHEREAS the Advisory Committee of Patrick Henry College, said committee being composed of outstanding citizens of the area served by the College, has mobilized the support of the community to raise approximately $40,000 for the improvement of the library and scholarship programs at Patrick Henry College, and,

WHEREAS the Advisory Committee of the College has, in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, wisely purchased an option on the only known available tract of land in the Martinsville area that would be suitable for the future development of the College,

WHEREAS many months of time and planning in constructing the necessary buildings on the new site, known as part of the Ben Townes property in Henry County, can be saved if the site can be purchased prior to the next meeting of the General Assembly of Virginia,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the petition of the Advisory Committee of Patrick Henry College of the University of Virginia at Martinsville for a grant of $100,000 from the Governor's contingency fund to be used to exercise the option on the Ben Townes tract be forwarded to the Governor with the endorsement of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. James P. Hanlon as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,900.

Mr. Littleton W. Simpson as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 June 1965, at a session salary of $7,500 plus 20 per cent for summer work and 15 per cent for administrative duties or a total salary of $10,350.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Gordon F. Theisz, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $9,000.

Mr. Marshall M. True, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200 plus 20 per cent for summer duties, or a total salary of $8,640.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Littleton W. Simpson, Assistant Professor of Economics, for two months, effective 1 July 1965, without pay, to complete his dissertation for the Ph. D. in Economics.

The following resignation was announced:

Mr. Carl L. Epley, Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, effective 1 June 1965, to accept a position in industry.

The following appointments were announced:

Mr. Littleton W. Simpson as Director, for one year, effective 1 June 1965.

Mr. Gordon F. Theisz, Jr. as Assistant Director, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

Mr. Marshall M. True as Director of Student Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Roy N. Graves, II as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,900.

Mr. William I. Williams as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $6,200.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $7,200.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 July 1965, at a session salary of $5,900 plus 20 per cent for administrative duties, or a total salary of $7,080.

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Acting Director, for one year, effective 1 July 1965.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:

Mrs. Norma B. Moran as Instructor in Chemistry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1965, at a session salary of $3,600.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Frank E. Flora as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1965.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:30 p.m.
