---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1966'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1966) December 10, 1966
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 10, 1966

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 Minor Hall 10 December 1966
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 10 December 1966 in the Office of the President with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, A. S. Harrison, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Walker, Wilkinson, and Williams. Edgar E. Woodward was present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Vincent Shea and C. Venable Minor were present during the discussion of the purchase of the Birdwood estate.

The minutes of the meeting of 7 October 1966, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Sally H. Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. James P. Hanlon as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss JoAnn Hayes as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 November 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William M. Patterson as Lecturer in Ophthalmology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Tamara G. Prince as Junior Instructor in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Dr. Robert R. Wagner as Professor of Microbiology, effective 1 January 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles K. Whitescarver, Jr. as Lecturer in Architecture, one-tenth time, for two months, effective 1 November 1966, at a salary of $.Mr. John K. Whittaker as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas C. Williams as Junior Instructor in Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 23 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

EDWARD R. STETTINIUS PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Department of History to be known as the Edward R. Stettinius Professorship of History.

ELECTION OF MR. NORMAN A. GRAEBNER AS EDWARD R. STETTINIUS PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Norman A. Graebner be and he is hereby elected Edward R. Stettinius Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.

WILLIAM STANSFIELD CALCOTT PROFESSORSHIP IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the William Stansfield Calcott Professorship in Applied Mathematics and Computer Science.

ELECTION OF MR. GORDON E. LATTA AS WILLIAM STANSFIELD CALCOTT PROFESSOR OF APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Gordon E. Latta be and he is hereby elected William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $

JOSEPH M. HARTFIELD PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the Joseph M. Hartfield Professorship in Law.

ELECTION OF MR. EMERSON G. SPIES AS JOSEPH M. HARTFIELD PROFESSOR OF LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Emerson G. Spies be and he is hereby elected as Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $.

HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIPS
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that distinguished professorships, to be known as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professorships, be and they are hereby created.

ELECTION OF MR. NEILL H. ALFORD, JR. AS HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr. be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. CHARLES K. WOLTZ AS HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Charles K. Woltz be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Floyd D. Anderson as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Harry T. Antrim as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael D. Garrick as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Billy J. Gilpin as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Luther Y. Gore as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr. as Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Willard W. Harrison as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Richard L. Jennings as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Shiy S. Kumar as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. W. Bedford Moore, III as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James H. Rust as Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for one year, effective 1 January 1967.Mr. Robert A. Smoak as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edward F. Storm as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard J. Sundbeg as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles A. Vandersee as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following promotion was announced:

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Jacob Azerrad, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 November 1966, at an annual salary of $10,500.Mr. Robert Dolan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geography, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, for the period 1 February 1967 through 30 June 1967, without pay, to carry out research under a Guggenheim Fellowship in England and Scotland.Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, for the period 1 September 1966 through 31 August 1967, without pay, to accept the position of Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund.Dr. Robert R. Wagner, Professor of Microbiology, for the period 1 January 1967 through 30 June 1967, with half-pay, to carry out special research in England.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Vittorio E. Celli, from Acting Associate Professor of Physics, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 October 1966.Miss Susan L. Foard, from Junior Instructor in History, to Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Chaitan P. Gupta, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two and one-half years, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Max Levitan, from Professor of Biology (George Mason College), to Professor of Biology (George Mason College) and Lecturer in Preventive Medicine, effective 1 January 1967. The term as Lecturer in Preventive Medicine is for one year.Mr. Roger P. Sherman, from Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two and one-half years, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, from Union Bag-Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, to Union Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 10 December 1966.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. William F. Beazer, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. David M. Bevington, Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Alumni Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Nicolas Cabrera, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. J. Francis Dammarn, Jr., Professor of Surgical Cardiology and Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Roger C. Davis, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert Dolan, Assistant Professor of Geography, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Associate Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Peter S. Landweber, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Shao-chuan Lang, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, at a session salary of $ effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Fredrik A. Muller, Assistant Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert L. Ramsy, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Yung H. Son, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1967.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Otis L. Updike, Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Doris K. Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf, Wills Johnson Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Bobby T. Wood, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of $ effective 1 November 1966.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Oliver L. Steele, Jr., Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Iowa.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William F. Beazer as Acting Chairman, Department of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Zula Mae Bice as Chairman of the Baccalaureate Curriculum Committee, School of Nursing, for the period 1 November 1966 through 31 August 1967.Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Chairman of the Baccalaureate Curriculum Committee, School of Nursing, for the period 1 August 1966 through 31 October 1966.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Director, Computer-Science Center, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Norman A. Graebner as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau as Associate Provost for Research, for five years, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Robert R. Wagner as Chairman, Department of Microbiology, effective 1 July 1967.

DEATH OF DR. JOHN G. KROLL
--------------------------

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1967
-----------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,

\--16, 17, and 18 February 1967

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,

\--6, 7, and 8 April 1967

Fredericksburg

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday,

\--31 May, and 1 and 2 June 1967

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday,

\--11, 12, and 13 October 1967

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,

\--7, 8, and 9 December 1967

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1967 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: Thursday, Friday, and Saturday,--16, 17, and 18 February 1967CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday,--6, 7, and 8 April 1967FredericksburgWednesday, Thursday, and Friday,--31 May, and 1 and 2 June 1967CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday,--11, 12, and 13 October 1967CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday,--7, 8, and 9 December 1967Charlottesville

MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1966, for the terms noted:Two-year Term:Alan S. Donnahoe, Richmond, Virginia, to serve for two years, the unexpired term of Edmund T. DeJarnette.President and Associate Publisher, Richmond Times-Dispatch and News LeaderPresident, RPI FoundationVice President, Board of Trustees, Collegiate SchoolBoard Member, Preprint CorporationBoard Member, State-Planters Bank of Commerce and TrustsBoard Member, University of Richmond Institute of Business and Community DevelopmentVirginia Metropolitan Area Study CommissionThree-year Term:Donald A. Holden, Newport News, VirginiaPresident and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock CompanyPresident, Nuclear Service and Construction Company, Inc.Member, Board of Directors, First & Merchants National BankMember, Board of Directors, Commonwealth Natural Gas CorporationDefense Industry Advisory Council, Department of DefenseTrustee and Member of Executive Committee, National Security Industrial AssociationVice President and Trustee, Mariners Museum, Newport NewsBoard Member, Virginia Institute of Marine ScienceMember, Virginia Commission on Higher Education FacilitiesTrustee, Webb Institute of Naval Architecture, New YorkTrustee, Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges

UNION CAMP PROFESSORSHIP IN CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------

The President reported on a recent change in name of the Union Bag-Camp Corporation to Union Camp Corporation and the desirability of having the Union Bag-Camp Chair in Chemical Engineering conform with the name of the company.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Union Bag-Camp Professorship in Chemical Engineering, which was established effective 1 September 1963 in the School of Engineering and Applied Science by action of the Board on 18 October 1963, be and it is hereby changed in name to the Union Camp Professorship in Chemical Engineering, effective 10 December 1966.

FOLLOW-UP REPORT ON THE REPORT OF THE VISITATION COMMITTEE OF THE SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Follow-up Report dated 15 September 1966 on the Report of the Visitation Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, as presented by the President to the Association, be and it is hereby approved.

CENTER FOR ADVANCED STUDIES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, established in the University with the support of the National Science Foundation and administered with valuable guidance from an advisory board composed of outstanding scientists and industrial leaders, has already demonstrated the soundness of its concept by attracting distinguished scholars who will bring further excellence to the teaching and research at the University;WHEREAS the purposes of the University can be best served if a Center for Advanced Studies offers special opportunities for graduate study not only in the sciences but in all disciplines;WHEREAS certain departments already have reached positions of strength from which they can rapidly achieve national eminence if they now bring additional outstanding faculty members into such a Center; andWHEREAS income from special endowments created by gifts of alumni and friends of the University, when augmented by income provided by the General Assembly through the "eminent scholars" program, will make possible the establishment of a number of additional special professorships;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 January 1967, the Center for Advanced Studies, to include and to supersede the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, be and it is hereby established.

DIVISION OF SPACE SCIENCE
-------------------------

The President announced that he has authorized, effective 12 November 1966, a Division of Space Science of the University of Virginia as the administrative unit to include all University of Virginia faculty members assigned to the Virginia Associated Research Center in Hampton. A Chairman of the Division will be appointed from among the faculty members resident at VARC, who will be administratively responsible to the Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA IN THE UNIVERSITIES RESEARCH ASSOCIATION, INC.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the election of the University of Virginia as a member of the Universities Research Association, Inc., and recommended approval of the invitation by an appropriate resolution of the Board of Visitors. The following institutions also will be initial members of the corporation, subject to their notifying the corporation of their acceptance of membership: California Institute of Technology, University of California (Berkeley), University of California (Los Angeles), University of Chicago, Carnegie Institute of Technology, University of Colorado, Columbia University, Cornell University, Duke University, Harvard University, University of Illinois, Indiana University, University of Iowa, The Johns Hopkins University, University of Maryland, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, University of North Carolina (Chapel Hill), Northwestern University, University of Notre Dame, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, Purdue University, Rice University, University of Rochester, The Rockefeller University, Stanford University, University of Texas, Tulane University, Washington University, University of Washington, University of Wisconsin, and Yale University.

The purposes for which the corporation has been organized are:

(1) To constitute an entity in and by means of which universities and other research organizations may cooperate with one another, with the Government of the United States, and with other organizations, toward the support and use of laboratories, machines, and other research facilities, and toward the development of knowledge in the physical and biological sciences; and

(2) To acquire, plan, construct, and operate machines, laboratories, and other facilities, under contract with the Government of the United States or otherwise, for research, development and education in the physical and biological sciences, including all aspects of the field of high energy physics, nuclear energy, and their engineering and other applications; and to educate and train technical, research, and student personnel in said sciences.

The corporation's affairs shall be conducted under the authority of the membership through the Council of Presidents. Each member institution shall be represented in the Council of Presidents by its president or equivalent chief executive officer, however denominated. The funds and business of the corporation shall be managed by a Board of Trustees, which shall exercise all the usual powers of a board of directors and such other powers as may be delegated to it by the Council of Presidents pursuant to law and to the Bylaws. Each major scientific, educational, and research activity of the corporation shall be under the charge of a director or other official as determined by the Board of Trustees. Each such activity shall be administered in accordance with policies established by the Board of Trustees, its committees, and the officers of the Corporation.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia desires to participate in the work of the Universities Research Association, Inc., as set forth in its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws; andWHEREAS Universities Research Association, Inc., has extended to the University its invitation to become an initial member;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia hereby accepts such invitation to become an initial member of Universities Research Association, Inc., and that the Secretary be and he hereby is authorized to deliver the acceptance of the University to Universities Research Association, Inc.

BEMISS HOUSE
------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the late Samuel M. Bemiss was a vital force in the early planning for The University Press of Virginia and as a member of its first Board of Directors, helped to guide the Press through the first four successful years after its establishment late in 1962;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the building to house The University Press of Virginia, located at 210 Sprigg Lane, be and it is hereby named Bemiss House to honor the memory of the late Samuel Merrifield Bemiss; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary transmit copies of this resolution to the members of his family, both as evidence of our grateful acceptance of their generous gifts and pledges and to signify the satisfaction taken by the Board in this fitting memorial to the late Mr. Bemiss, whose leadership in establishing the Press was characteristic of his personal involvement in all that concerned Virginia's history and culture.

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The Chairman of the Athletics Committee, Mr. Faulconer, proposed that the report on receipts and disbursements of the Department of Athletics for the fiscal year 1965-1966 be approved for submission to the State Director of the Division of the Budget as required by law.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 53,315.17

Free service to Counties and Cities

104,708.63

\------------

Total

$ 158,023.80

\------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1403, 1404, 1407, 1408, 1410, and 1411, aggregating $158,023.80, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 53,315.17Free service to Counties and Cities104,708.63------------Total$ 158,023.80------------

PURCHASE OF PROPERTY FROM BIRDWOOD ESTATE, INC.
-----------------------------------------------

The University's Special Counsel, Mr. C. Venable Minor, presented a report on certain problems which had been encountered in purchasing a 550-acre tract of land west of Bellair from the Birdwood Estate, Inc. In particular, a question had arisen concerning the issuance by the University of tax-exempt notes. After extensive discussion, on motion of Mr. Johnson seconded by Mr. Cross, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter also referred to as the "Corporation"), is negotiating to purchase from Birdwood Estate, Inc. a tract of land in Charlottesville Magisterial District of Albemarle County, Virginia, containing 550.469 acres, more or less, at a price not to exceed $1,063,169.73;NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the purchase of said real property from Birdwood Estate, Inc. at a price not to exceed $1,063,169.73, on such terms as may be negotiated, including, without limitation, an unsecured obligation of the Corporation and cash, or all cash, be and it hereby is authorized;RESOLVED FURTHER, that in connection with such purchase the Corporation hereby authorizes the execution and delivery of any such unsecured bond in such amount and upon such terms as may be negotiated, approval of any such bond executed by the Corporation's officers being conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof;RESOLVED FURTHER, that in connection with such purchase the Corporation hereby authorizes the execution and delivery of an agreement providing for the amendment of certain restrictions affecting the real property to be purchased and the imposition of certain restrictions on certain adjacent real property and the execution and delivery of an agreement obligating the Corporation to maintain in good condition any lawn or pasture land on the real property to be purchased, both in the form presented to this meeting with such changes as the officers executing such agreements shall approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that all instruments not specifically referred to above which are, in the opinion of the Corporation's Special Counsel, necessary or proper in connection with such purchase, are hereby authorized in such form as the officers executing each instrument shall approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof, provided, however, that all instruments to be executed in connection with such purchase, whether or not specifically mentioned above, shall, prior to their execution, be approved by the University's Special Counsel.

The Comptroller of the University, Mr. Vincent Shea, presented an alternative plan for possible use in the event the purchase of the property through the issuance of tax-exempt notes was not possible. The proposal called for a loan from the University's endowment funds.

After discussion, on motion of Mr. Faulconer seconded by Mr. Kuykendall, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that if necessary a loan not to exceed $800,000 be authorized from the endowment funds of the University, the proceeds to be used for the purchase of the mortgage bonds held by Mr. Cornelius Middleton on the Birdwood property, these bonds to be amortized from the unrestricted endowment income of the University over a period not to exceed ten years, at an interest rate of five percent.

The Rector then called to the Board's attention that it might be necessary to ask the Executive Committee for action on the purchase of the Birdwood property prior to the next meeting of the Board. Accordingly, on motion of Mrs. Parrish seconded by Mr. Walker, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Executive Committee be and it is hereby empowered to take such actions as may be necessary in order to assure the purchase of the 550-acre tract of land from the Birdwood Estate, Inc.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received of committee actions and other matters from the Finance Committee, Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, Medical Committee, Buildings and Grounds Committee, and Educational Policy Committee.

REPORTS OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received from the Special Committee on Blandy Farm and the Special Committee on the Study of the Organization of the University.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSARCHITECTS FOR REMODELING DINING HALL KITCHEN AND UPDATING EQUIPMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Edgar E. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College, be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Wright, Jones and Wilkerson, of Pichmond, Virginia, as the architects for remodeling the dining hall kitchen and updating equipment.

PURCHASE OF BISCOE PROPERTY
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Bursar of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to rent the Biscoe Property on Sunken Road for $150 per month with the understanding that the rent for the first eight months in the amount of $1,200 shall be applicable as a partial payment for the property at a total purchase price of not to exceed $18,500.

REPORT BY MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------

A report on Committee actions and other matters was received from the Mary Washington College Committee.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Carol E. Boring as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Edward L. Henson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of $ effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Economies and Philosophy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Emma V. McCraray, Associate Professor of Business, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $, plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William L. Wilson, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Mary K. Cabell as Lecturer in Mathematics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Howard M. Federspiel as Lecturer in History, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Brenda J. Robert as Lecturer in English, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Inge B. Wekerle as Lecturer in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

REAPPOINTMENT OF MR. LORIN A. THOMPSON AS CHANCELLOR OF GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, who had been appointed Chancellor of George Mason College for one year, effective 1 July 1966, will attain the age of sixty-five during the academic session of 1966-67 and will, therefore, be normally ineligible for additional administrative assignments because of the Board of Visitors resolution requiring retirement from administrative positions in June following the month in which the person reaches the age of sixty-five. The President reported further, however, that George Mason College was now in transition from a two-year to a four-year college, having added the third year beginning in September 1966, that it would be inappropriate to make a change in the chancellorship at this time, and that it would be most helpful in the development of the College if Mr. Thompson could be given an additional year as Chancellor. Moreover, the President pointed out, Mr. Thompson has given most effective leadership in the development of the College, both in terms of its student body and faculty and had worked effectively with the local governments in the Northern Virginia area as evidenced by the recent approval of bond issue proposals in the several jurisdictions for the purchase of land to be added to that already owned by the College. In addition, the President stated that Mr. Thompson's leadership had been the subject of numerous communications to him and that a number of these persons had expressed the hope that Mr. Thompson's services could be retained for another year.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, in view of the exceptional circumstances prevailing at George Mason College of the University of Virginia, the President be and he is hereby authorized to reappoint Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor of George Mason College for an additional year, effective 1 July 1967, and that in this regard the requirements of the Board's resolution requiring retirement from administrative positions at age sixty-five, be and they are hereby waived to permit Mr. Thompson to serve this additional year.

LYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSLYNCHBURG BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the responsibility for the first and second year college credit work now being conducted at the Lynchburg Branch of the School of General Studies of the University of Virginia be and it is hereby transferred to the State Board for Community Colleges, effective 1 July 1967.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Carlos E. Polit as Instructor in Spanish, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSNORTHERN VIRGINIA CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the offices of the Northern Virginia Center of the School of General Studies will be moved to the campus of George Mason College at Fairfax.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:55 p.m.

WC:dbc
