---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1967'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 Minor Hall 2 June 1967
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 2 June 1967 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, A. S. Harrison, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, Hobbs, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Walker, Wilkinson, and Williams.. Absent: Walkley E. Johnson was absent. Grellet C. Simpson, Edgar E. Woodward, and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters, and Vincent Shea was present during the consideration of the University and Hospital budgets.

The minutes of the meeting of 8 April 1967, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1968. On motion of Mr. Faulconer, seconded by Mrs. Parrish, the following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Frank W. Rogers, Chairman; William A. Hobbs, J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., and Lewis M. Walker, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1967-68Finance Committee:Mary Washington College Committee:Student Affairs and Athletics Committee:Medical Committee:Buildings and Grounds Committee:Educational Policy Committee:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1967-68. The committee assignments are as follows: Finance Committee:William A. Hobbs, ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongA. S. Harrison, Jr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College Committee:Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Lewis M. Walker, Jr. Student Affairs and Athletics Committee:Hunter Faulconer, ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonWalkley E. JohnsonLawrence Lewis, Jr. Medical Committee:Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds Committee:J. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanHunter FaulconerA. S. Harrison, Jr.William A. HobbsMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Langbourne M. Williams Educational Policy Committee:Langbourne M. Williams, ChairmanWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Jerry W. Bains as Assistant Professor of Surgery (Division of Plastic Surgery), for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. R. Edward Barker, Jr., as Associate Professor of Materials Science, for two years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Fernando J. Barroso as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. William G. Batte as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Henry S. Bausum as Visiting Associate Professor of History, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of Mr. Donald E. Beck as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Dr. Carlo Bruni as Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Jackie O. Bunting as Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Richard E. Clark as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $17,400.Mr. John E. Craig as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $9,200.Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $15,500.Mr. Aime S. DeReggi as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $8,800.Mr. Lewis Diana as Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $14,200.Miss Caroline A. Dinegar as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $10,400.Mr. Earl A. Glosser as Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $13,500.Mr. Herbert O. Goller as Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $10,400.Mr. Myron Greene as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $9,600.Mr. Barry Hannegan as Acting Assistant Professor of the History of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $9,600.Mr. Milan E. Hapala as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $4,466.67.Mr. John K. Haviland as Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for two years, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $18,200, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $21,840.Dr. David R. Hawkins as Professor of Psychiatry, effective 15 August 1967, at an annual salary of $35,000.Mr. James N. Holtz as Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Marvin J. Homzie as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Dennis S. Ippolito as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Ivan C. Johnson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Wayland H. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Majid Khadduri as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Roberta B. Kiefer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Robert Kretsinger as Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 October 1967, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Violette N. Lang as Lecturer in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. K. Edward Lay, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Charles E. Lewis as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Paul R. Lilly, Jr., as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Roger Lonsdale as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Alpheus T. Mason as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government, and of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert M. McChesney as Junior Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Dale R. Metcalf as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. George E. Mitchell as Junior Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Berrien Moore, III, as Junior Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Bernard B. Morrel as Junior Instructor in Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Patricia M. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 15 June 1967, at an annual salary of Mr. Edward G. Necco as Junior Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lola D. Pelliccia as Junior Instructor in Italian, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Norma L. Peterson as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Helmut F. Pfanner as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Hugh S. Plunkett as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Jeff A. Pyatte as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Vincente H. Rangel as Lecturer in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao as Acting Assistant Professor of Religion, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Bruce A. Rosenberg as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Walter B. Ross as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Anthony R. Schubert as Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. William W. Sihler as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. H. Stuart Smith, Jr., as Lecturer in Education, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of .Mr. Martin A. Tarter, Jr., as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Alton L. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Norman B. Thomson, Jr., as Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Harold N. Ward as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Mary E. Whitney as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Eugene J. Wilhelm, Jr., as Lecturer in Geography, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Terence H. Williams as Visiting Professor of Anatomy (Neuroanatomy), for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert S. Wood as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Marcus O. Workman as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. John V. Yanik as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF DR. W. NORMAN THORNTON, JR., AS ROBERT C. TAYLOR PROFESSOR OF OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. W. Norman Thornton, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Robert C. Taylor Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .

CHANGE IN TERM OF ELECTION OF MR. EPHRAIM FISCHOFF
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Ephraim Fischoff as Visiting Professor of Sociology, as approved by the Board on 7 October 1966, be changed from one-sixth time, for one year, to one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MISS ANNE E. H. FREUDENBERG
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Miss Anne E. H. Freudenberg as Assistant Professor, as approved by the Board on 8 April 1967, be changed from 1 March 1967 to 1 July 1967.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MR. JAMES P. HANLON
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. James P. Hanlon as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, as approved by the Board on 10 December 1966, be and it is hereby cancelled.

THE COMMONWEALTH PROFESSORSHIPS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the 1964 Virginia General Assembly, on the recommendation of the then Governor, Albertis S. Harrison, Jr., included an item in the Appropriation Act "for attracting and retaining eminent scholars" in institutions of higher education, under the terms of which the Governor was to apportion to institutions of higher education in Virginia a sum equal to the interest earned by endowment funds created for that purpose after 30 June 1964;WHEREAS this item was also included, on the recommendation of Governor Mills E. Godwin, Jr., by the 1966 Virginia General Assembly in the Appropriation Act of that year; andWHEREAS the University of Virginia, as a result of this program, is now receiving income from endowment funds given to the University for this purpose, which will be most significant in attracting and retaining eminent scholars;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, as a mark of our appreciation to the Governor and the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia for this support, we hereby create distinguished professorships, to be known as the Commonwealth Professorships.

ELECTION OF MR. NICOLAS CABRERA as COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Nicolas Cabrera be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. PIERRE E. CONNER as COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Pierre E. Conner be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. IRVIN EHRENPREIS as COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

THE JAMES BRANCH CABELL PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGLISH AND AMERICAN LITERATURE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a distinguished professorship, to be known as the James Branch Cabell Professorship in English and American Literature, be and it is hereby established.

ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT W. LANGBAUM as JAMES BRANCH CABELL PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN LITERATURE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Robert W. Langbaum be and he is hereby elected James Branch Cabell Professor of English and American Literature, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

THE PAUL GOODLOE McINTIRE PROFESSORSHIPS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the late Paul Goodloe McIntire has been a noteworthy benefactor of the University of Virginia by donating generously in terms of time and financial assistance;WHEREAS the McIntire School of Commerce of the University of Virginia has been named in his honor, as well as the McIntire Department of Fine Arts and the McIntire Department of Music;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that distinguished professorships, to be known as the Paul Goodloe McIntire Professorships, be and they are hereby established.

ELECTION OF MR. G. WARREN NUTTER as PAUL GOODLOE McINTIRE PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. G. Warren Nutter be and he is hereby elected Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Yu-sheng Lin as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Harry S. Abram, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Gary K. Ackers, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. John Buckman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Jon F. Carlson, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Robert T. Corney, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Mary F. Coyne, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Arnold A. Del Greco, Associate Professor, to Professor of Spanish, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Frederick C. Hamer, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Orthodontist), one-half time, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Terring W. Heironimus, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Hector J. Hermann, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Ernest E. McCoy, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. James Q. Miller, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Neurology, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. James W. Moore, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Jonathan O. Partain, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Miss Carole A. Pieroni, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Raymond A. Rousseau, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Leslie E. Rudolf, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of .Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. John T. K. Walsh, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Dr. Ruth B. Weeks, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of .

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. J. Hamilton Allan, from Professor of Orthopedics, to Clinical Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of .Dr. Frederic A. Berry, from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Raymond J. Cormier, from Acting Assistant Professor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, from Lecturer in Humanities, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Kenneth R. Hall, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Gordon E. Latta, from William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, to William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Randolph T. Major, from Professor of Chemistry, to Research Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1967, without pay.Mr. Larry L. Sale, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. David M. Bevington, Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to teach at the University of Chicago.Mr. Truman A. Botts, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to complete his work as Executive Director of the Committee on Support of Research in the Mathematical Sciences.Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue in his position as a Director of the International Monetary Fund.Mrs. Betty N. Norris, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, with half pay, to pursue doctoral studies.Mr. Howard Winters, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue teaching and research at New York University.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. D. Wilfred Abse, Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. M. Shannon Allen, Jr., Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Melvin W. Aylor, Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Jacob Azerrad, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), at an annual salary of , effective 1 May 1967.Mr. James H. Bash, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles J. Bishko, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein, Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Truman A. Botts, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Alumni Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. E. Roger Boyle, Associate Professor of Speech and Drama, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard M. Brandt, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William L. Breit, Associate Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James M. Buchanan, Paul G. McIntire Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Avery Catlin, Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert V. Coleman, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James B. Colvert, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James S. Constantine, Associate Professor of Classics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Arthur K. Davis, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Charles M. Davison, Jr., Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Douglas Day, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bascom S. Deaver, Jr., Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Harry J. Dell, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert T. Denomme, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Cosmo A. DiFazio, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert Dolan, Assistant Professor of Geography, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Milton H. Donaldson, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., University Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ernest H. Ern, Assistant Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frank W. Finger, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frank E. Flora, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Robert C. Taylor Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Eugene A. Foster, Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Mark G. Foster, Wills-Johnson Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bryant C. Freeman, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Donald Fry, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles H. Giffen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John F. Hahn, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William H. Harbaugh, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert J. Harris, Professor of Government, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard H. Henneman, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Laurin L. Henry, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Associate Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Eric D. Hirsch, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Ying-Tang Hsu, Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ladley Husted, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. C. Alan Hutchinson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David C. Jordan, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles Kaut, Associate Professor of Anthropology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Arthur Kirsch, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Shiv S. Kumar, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. H. Gordon Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Gordon E. Latta, William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David B. Lawall, Assistant Professor of Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, Associate Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Shao-chuan Leng, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John P. Lipkin, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Donald G. Loach, Acting Assistant Professor of Music, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Miss Mary M. Lohr, Sadie Heath Cabiness Professor of Nursing, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties and a supplement, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. John L. Longley, Jr., Associate Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Stephan H. J. Ludewig, Associate Professor of Biochemistry, one-half time, at an annual salary of , effective 1 April 1967.Mr. Robert M. MacLeod, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Gustav D. Magnuson, Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Nathaniel N. F. Martin, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. R. Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George B. Matthews, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Carl McFarland, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert W. McGilvery, Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Associate Professor of Music, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Robert E. Merrill, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Ralph C. Minehart, Assistant Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John W. Mitchell, William Barton Rogers Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell, Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Douglas G. Mook, Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert J. Morgan, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frederick T. Morse, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Morton I. Nirenberg, Instructor in German, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Hermon M. Parker, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Alfred C. Proulx, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties and a supplement, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert L. Ramey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. L. Starling Reid, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Laurens H. Rhinelander, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Rogers C. Ritter, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Oscar R. Rodig, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Morris E. Rose, Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Kenneth Ross, Instructor in Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul N. Schatz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. William H. Seawell, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Werner K. Sensbach, Lecturer in Architecture, at a session salary of , plus for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Roger P. Sherman, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Donald H. Shoemaker, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Yung H. Son, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Emerson G. Spies, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard L. Stafford, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 May 1967.Mr. Oliver L. Steele, Jr., Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 April 1967.Mr. Edward C. Stevenson, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Union Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David E. Underdown, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. D. Rutledge Vining, Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Vamik D. Volkan, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Wayne A. Wallace, Associate Professor of Geography, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Paul B. Walter, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick, Instructor in English, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. William Watson, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Stuart H. Wax, Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. David Weiss, Associate Professor of Speech and Drama, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Miss Eleanore Westhead, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Richard A. Wetzel, Assistant Professor of Radiology, and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Marvin D. White, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Alumni Professor of Mathematics and Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. D. Alan Williams, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Doris K. Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf, Wills-Johnson Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles K. Woltz, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. T. Braxton Woody, Professor of Romance Languages, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Jr., Assistant Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Edward E. Younger, Professor of History, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Klaus O. H. Ziock, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The President announced the following retirements: Mr. Alfred Chanutin, Professor of Biochemistry, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Chanutin has been a member of the faculty since 1923.Mr. Herbert Emmerich, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Emmerich has been a member of the faculty since 1963.Mr. Charles O. Gregory, John B. Minor Professor of Law, effective 31 August 1967. Mr. Gregory has been a member of the faculty since 1949.Mrs. Roberta H. Gwathmey, Associate Professor of Spanish, and Dean of Women, effective 30 June 1967. Mrs. Gwathmey has been a member of the faculty since 1934.Mr. T. Cary Johnson, Jr., Professor of History, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since 1928.Mr. Ben-Zion Linfield, Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Linfield has been a member of the faculty since 1926.Mr. S. Vernon McCasland, John B. Cary Professor of Religion, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. McCasland has been a member of the faculty since 1939.Mr. Charles P. Nash, Jr., Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Nash has been a member of the faculty since 1927.Mr. Floyd Stovall, Edgar Allan Poe and Alumni Professor of English, effective 30 June 1967. Mr. Stovall has been a member of the faculty since September 1955.Dr. Oscar Swineford, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 30 June 1967. Dr. Swineford has been a member of the faculty since 1928.Dr. James E. Wood, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 30 June 1967. Dr. Wood has been a member of the faculty since 1923.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professors emeriti:Mr. Alfred Chanutin, Professor of Biochemistry, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1923.Mr. Charles O. Gregory, John B. Minor Professor of Law, who retires in August 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1949.Mr. T. Cary Johnson, Jr., Professor of History, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1928.Mr. S. Vernon McCasland, John B. Cary Professor of Religion, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1939.Mr. Charles P. Nash, Jr., Professor of Law, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1927.Dr. Oscar Swineford, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1928.Dr. James E. Wood, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of the University since 1923.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Gary S. Dunbar, Associate Professor of Geography, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of California, Los Angeles.Mr. James W. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective 31 August 1967, to accept a position at Western Kentucky State College.Mr. George M. Gerken, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the Callier Hearing and Research Center in Dallas.Dr. Jerrold E. Hammond, Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Child Psychiatry), effective 30 June 1967, to return to private practice.Dr. Donald C. Larson, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 31 August 1967, to accept a position at Drexel Institute of Technology.Mr. Marvin B. Perry, Jr., Professor of English and Dean of Admissions, effective 30 June 1967, to accept the presidency of Goucher College in Maryland.Mr. James H. Rust, Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the Georgia Institute of Technology.Dr. Emanuel E. Schwartz, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective 30 June 1967, to return to private practice.Mrs. Virginia W. Smith, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 31 July 1967, to accept a position at the Medical College of Virginia.Dr. Ian P. Stevenson, Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry, effective 14 August 1967, to devote full time to research and teaching. Dr. Stevenson will remain in the Department as Professor of Psychiatry.Mr. Fernando Toro-Garland, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at Carlton University, Ottawa, Canada.Mr. Marvin Tummins, Professor of Commerce, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Georgia.Mr. Frank A. Williar, Lecturer in Education and Director of the Office of Placement, effective 2 June 1967, to accept a position with the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1967, the following appointment was announced: Captain William J. Dwyer, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, for three years, effective July 1967.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Charles F. Baldwin as Diplomat in Residence, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Alan P. Batson as Director, Computer-Science Center, for five years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Alan L. Caspar as Acting Director, Blandy Experimental Farm, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., as Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Richard E. Clark as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin as Chairman, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, for the period 10 April 1967 through 30 June 1968.Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield as Acting Chairman, Department of Neurological Surgery, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Ernest H. Ern as Dean of Admissions, for four years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick as Chairman, Department of Astronomy, and Director, Leander McCormick Observatory, for five years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Earl A. Glosser as Director, Counseling Center, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley as Chairman, Department of Pharmacology, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. David R. Hawkins as Chairman, Department of Psychiatry, effective 15 August 1967.Dr. Thomas R. Johns as Chairman, Department of Neurology, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. W. Reed Johnson as Acting Director, Reactor Facility, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Robert Kretsinger as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 October 1967.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell as Acting Chairman, Department of Geology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Director, Roanoke Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. James L. Riopel as Director, Mountain Lake Biological Station, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Alton L. Taylor as Assistant Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for the period 1 September 1967 through 30 June 1970.Mr. Wayne A. Wallace as Chairman, Department of Geography, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Miss Mary E. Whitney as Dean of Women, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson as Acting Chairman, Department of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. T. Braxton Woody as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Jr., as Acting Chairman, Department of Urology, for the period 1 April 1967 through 30 June 1968.

APPROVAL OF THE 1967-68 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1967-68 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1967-68 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1967-68 University Hospital Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Medical Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing the Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on 8 December 1962.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of admissions for the academic session of 1967-68.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON FACULTY SALARIES
--------------------------

The President presented a report showing a comparison of the University's salary structure with that of its fellow members in the Association of American Universities.

PROPOSED DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
--------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the proposed new degree of Bachelor of Nuclear Engineering was approved by the University Senate at its meeting on 29 May 1967 and by the President, and that the proposed degree was reviewed and approved by the Educational Policy Committee at its meeting on 1 June 1967.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby authorize the University to award the degree of Bachelor of Nuclear Engineering in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

PROPOSED DEGREE OF MASTER OF SCIENCE IN NURSING
-----------------------------------------------

The President reported that the proposed new degree of Master of Science in Nursing was approved by the University Senate at its meeting on 29 May 1967 and by the President, and that the proposed degree was reviewed and approved by the Educational Policy Committee at its meeting on 1 June 1967.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby authorize the University to award the degree of Master of Science in Nursing in the School of Nursing.

CREATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NEUROLOGY
---------------------------------------

The President reported on the creation of the Department of Neurology, effective 1 July 1967.

REPORT ON THE STUDY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNIVERSITY
---------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Hobbs presented and commented upon a study of the organization of the University by Heald, Hobson and Associates of New York City, a copy of which report had previously been sent to each Board member. With each Visitor's copy there was attached a memorandum from Mr. Hobbs which read as follows:

"22 May 1967

"Particularly for new members of the Board, it is appropriate to provide some explanation of the enclosed report which was prepared by Heald-Hobson and Associates, a firm of consultants which specializes in working with colleges and universities.

"At the meeting in December 1965, the Board of Visitors authorized the employment of an outside consulting firm to study, report on and make recommendations on the administrative area of the University. The reasons behind the authorization were (1) the Board unanimously felt that the President was greatly overburdened and that such a study might suggest ways and means to relieve this situation; (2) while the Board was not apprehensive or worried, it wanted assurance that the administrative area was adequately staffed, capable, and effective currently and geared or gearing for the future; and (3) the Board felt that the support of outside consultants would be helpful in obtaining Richmond's approval of proposed changes.

"A careful survey of consulting firms was conducted and while this was time-consuming, it was very necessary. It was originally thought that the report would be available for the December 1966 meeting but the assignment was broadened following the Report of the State Council of Higher Education. The cost of the report is to be paid from \`local' or non-State funds.

"So much for background. As to the report itself, it is important that it not be misunderstood. It is part factual and descriptive which is interesting and useful for the Board and those not intimately acquainted with the University; it contains opinions and recommendations - some limited and definite, others broad and long-range. It is certainly not a blueprint for vast and radical changes. Rather it is a document which can be reviewed from time to time and hopefully can be useful to the President in his proposals and presentations in the future.

"While it will come up for discussion at the meeting of the Board on 2 June, it will not be presented as a matter to be voted upon. From time to time, the President will undoubtedly refer to sections of the report as he adopts some of the recommendations, or modifications thereof, and presents them for discussion or approval.

William A. Hobbs"

Following Mr. Hobbs' comments, a general discussion ensued concerning the recommendations of the report. It was the general consensus that another discussion of several points contained in the report will be necessary at a later date.

COMMITTEE TO STUDY THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN
-----------------------------------------

The President reported on the establishment of the Committee to Study the Admission of Women, and noted that two members of the Committee were members of the faculty of Mary Washington College. The complete membership is as follows: Lewis M. Hammond, Chairman; Zula Mae Bice, C. Julian Bishko, McLemore Birdsong, Richard M. Brandt, James H. Croushore, Albert R. Klein, John C. McCoid, John W. Stewart, and John Cook Wyllie.

JAMES SOUTHALL WILSON HALL
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new Arts and Sciences building now under construction to the east of Cabell Hall be named James Southall Wilson Hall in honor of the late James Southall Wilson, former Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and Founder and first Editor of the Virginia Quarterly Review.

VISIT OF THE GOVERNOR AND HIS ADVISORY BOARD ON THE BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the visit of the Governor and his Advisory Board on the Budget to the University on 16 May 1967.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 38,828.80

Free service to Counties and Cities

182,288.49

\------------

Total

$ 221,117.29

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1457, 1458, 1461, 1462, 1469, 1470, 1472, 1473, 1474, 1476, and 1477, aggregating $221,117.29, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 38,828.80Free service to Counties and Cities182,288.49------------Total$ 221,117.29

McGREGOR ADVISORY COMMITTEE
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that C. Waller Barrett and David J. Mays be and they are hereby re-elected to the Advisory Committee for the McGregor Library for terms of four years, effective 1 July 1966.

ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX DIVISION OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, for itself and its duly constituted and elected successor(s), it hereby constitutes and appoints the Purchasing Agent and/or the Assistant Purchasing Agent jointly and severally, the true and lawful persons for and in their names to execute all applications, notices, bonds, and other instruments claims, offers in compromise, letters, writings, and papers and to do all acts for them in dealing with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with matters relating to the laws, and regulations issued pursuant thereto, administered by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division of Internal Revenue Service; and that this Board of Visitors hereby authorizes the said persons to receive on their behalf any and all notices, papers, and letters from said Service in connection with all such matters, hereby giving and granting to said persons full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, including the sub-delegation of these powers in whole or in part, with full power of substitution and revocation, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said persons shall lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof; and that in execution of any document hereinabove referred to said persons.

STUDENT HOSPITALIZATION INSURANCE
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, in the interest of making sure that hospitalization coverage is provided for all students enrolled at the University at Charlottesville, effective 1 September 1967 it shall be the policy of the University to require that all such students shall carry hospitalization insurance and that, in selecting an insurance plan, the student shall have a choice between an insurance plan sponsored by the Student Council or one that the student or his parents considers comparable to that plan.

REVISED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR THE CLINICAL MEDICAL FACULTY
----------------------------------------------------------

Present Plan (1966-67)

Proposed Plan (1967-68)

State

Private Practice

Total

State

Private Practice

Total

Professor and Department Chairman

$15,000

$15,000

$30,000

$20,000

$16,000

$36,000

Professor

10,000

20,000

30,000

15,000

21,000

36,000

Associate Professor

10,000

20,000

30,000

12,000

20,000

32,000

Assistant Professor

10,000

20,000

30,000\*

10,000

18,000

28,000

Instructor

4,500

25,500

30,000\* \*Maximum has never been used.

6,000

18,000

24,000

The Comptroller presented a proposed revision in the compensation plan for the clinical faculty of the School of Medicine, which had been previously reviewed by and bore the approval of the Medical Committee. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed plan of compensation for the clinical faculty of the School of Medicine, as shown below, be and it is hereby approved, effective 1 July 1967: Present Plan (1966-67)Proposed Plan (1967-68)StatePrivate PracticeTotalStatePrivate PracticeTotalProfessor and Department Chairman$15,000$15,000$30,000$20,000$16,000$36,000Professor10,00020,00030,00015,00021,00036,000Associate Professor10,00020,00030,00012,00020,00032,000Assistant Professor10,00020,00030,000\*10,00018,00028,000Instructor4,50025,50030,000\* \*Maximum has never been used. 6,00018,00024,000

Maximum has never been used.

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

REPORT BY SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON BLANDY FARM
------------------------------------------

Mr. Kuykendall, Chairman of the Special Committee on Blandy Farm, presented on behalf of the Committee which was composed, in addition to himself, of Visitors Faulconer and Hobbs, a report on possible uses of Blandy Farm prepared by Mr. Harry M. Love of Blacksburg, Virginia, a retired member of the faculty of the Department of Agricultural Economics at Virginia Polytechnic Institute. The report in essence proposed the phasing out of the farming operation, with the exception of the seed corn operation, and the planting of the released acreage in trees over a four-year period. Mr. Kuykendall stated that the Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of the proposal subject to the advice of Special Counsel that the proposed forestry operation would be suitable under the donor's will.

After discussion, the proposal of the Committee was approved.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Miss Anne B. Capelle as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), with special responsibilities for the French House, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Harry L. Chipman, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jeanne B. Diana as Assistant Professor of Sociology (three-fourths time for the first year; full time for the two following years), for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of (three-fourths of base salary of ), for the 1967-68 session.Miss L. Rebecca Du Val as Assistant Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Janet M. Gardner as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Mary J. Hyde as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Martha S. Jones as Assistant Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Sylvia R. Lang as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Roberto J. Maldonado as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French and Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Mary K. Phifer as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard T. Wilfong as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Mrs. Linda M. Douglas as Instructor in Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Ruth T. Friedman as Assistant Professor of Biology (two-thirds time), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Charles A. Sletten, Associate Professor, to Professor of Sociology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Martha G. Darby, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Richard L. Sarchet, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, with one-half pay, to continue graduate study toward a doctorate at the University of Virginia.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the salary scale for Mary Washington College which was approved by the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 8 April 1967 to become effective on 1 September 1967 shall, for the following faculty members, become effective on 1 July 1967:Miss Mildred A. DrosteMiss Margaret HargroveMrs. Emily A. HollowayMr. Michael HoustonMr. Carrol H. Quenzel

RETIREMENT
----------

The Chancellor announced the retirement of Mr. Louis J. Cabrera, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), effective 30 June 1967.

ELECTION OF MR. LOUIS J. CABRERA as PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Louis J. Cabrera, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), who retires in June 1967 after having served on the faculty of the College for twenty-four years.

ADOPTION OF THE 1967-68 COLLEGE BUDGET
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1967-68 Mary Washington College budget, as recommended by the President and Chancellor and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The Chancellor reported on the current status of the construction program at Mary Washington College.

CREATION OF NEW POSITIONS
-------------------------

At the request of Mr. Lewis, the Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, Mr. Hobbs presented for the Board's consideration and on behalf of the Mary Washington College Committee, a report prepared by Heald, Hobson and Associates of New York City on the organization of the College for financial administration. The report was most praiseworthy of the efforts of the College officials in the financial area but stated that the scope of the College's financial operations had become so extensive that additional personnel was needed. Specifically, the report recommended the creation of the positions of Comptroller (which would supersede the existing position of Bursar), Associate Comptroller, and Plant Engineer. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to create the positions of Comptroller (to supersede the existing position of Bursar), Associate Comptroller, and Plant Engineer, and proceed immediately to seek State approval for these positions at the salaries recommended in the report of Heald, Hobson and Associates.

ALUMNAE ASSOCIATION OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------

On behalf of the Mary Washington College Committee, the Chairman, Mr. Lewis, summarized the results of a discussion on the proposals of the Board of Directors of the Alumnae Association of Mary Washington College presented to the Mary Washington College Committee at its meeting with the Board in Fredericksburg on 8 April 1967. At the meeting of the Mary Washington College Committee on 1 June 1967, the Chancellor had announced his decision to create a Committee on the Future of the College which would have as one of its first priorities the consideration of the relationship of Mary Washington College to the University at Charlottesville with particular respect to the study now under way at Charlottesville on the need for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences. Mr. Lewis stated that he would inform the President of the Alumnae Association of Mary Washington College that any comment on their proposal would be held until the reports of the University's study of the admission of women and the Chancellor's Committee on the Future of Mary Washington College were in hand.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Jose A. Bufill as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Craig M. Cleaves as Lecturer in Psychology, one-half time, for the period 20 March 1967 through 30 June 1967, at a salary of .Mr. Robert F. Cozzens as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. William B. Dominick as Lecturer in Business Administration, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Irmgard W. Hobson as Lecturer in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael R. Mullen as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Robert D. Nye as Lecturer in Psychology, one-half time, for the period 20 March 1967 through 30 June 1967, at a salary of .Mr. Robert H. Strawser as Lecturer in Accounting, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Marian R. Bartlett as Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Ruth A. Flint as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Helen S. Garson as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Blossom D. Golinkin as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Cornelia T. Hyde as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward A. McDaniel as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael J. McDermott, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Dimitrios Papaconstantopoulos as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mrs. Lorraine A. Schlesinger as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Helen L. Sehrt as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. James M. Shea, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mrs. Aileen S. Walls as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Nancy C. Brooks, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Hubert M. Cole, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. Robert E. Karlson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of Mr. John M. Smith, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Arlette R. Evans, from Acting Assistant Professor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Miss Eleanor Souville, from Acting Assistant Professor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Miss Jean E. McKeithen, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period 20 March 1967 through 30 June 1967, without pay, for reasons of health.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Stephen T. Early, Jr., Professor of Political Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lawrence Leftoff, Instructor in Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Eugenie V. Mielczarek, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Robert C. Walter, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mrs. Edna O. Hokenson, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective 30 June 1967, to accompany her husband who is being transferred to another location.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Tanya F. Johnson as Instructor in Sociology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard J. McKay as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physical Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mrs. Lois P. Lowry, Instructor in English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1967.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mrs. Emma V. McCraray, Associate Professor of Business, effective 30 June 1967. Mrs. McCraray has been a member of the faculty since 1956.

ELECTION OF MRS. EMMA V. McCRARAY as ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mrs. Emma V. McCraray, Associate Professor of Business, who retires in June 1967 and has been on the staff of Clinch Valley College since 1956.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Richard O. Hays, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 30 June 1967, to return to graduate school.Mrs. Carol E. Zunker, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 30 June 1967, to return to graduate school.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Richard J. McKay as Dean of Students, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William H. Browne as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of .Mr. Charlton O. Wallace as Lecturer in Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 June 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

ROANOKE OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Director, Roanoke Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:55 p.m.

WC:dbc
