---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1967'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 Minor Hall 18 February 1967
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 18 February 1967 in the Office of the President with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Cross, Faulconer, A. S. Harrison, Jr., Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Walker, and Wilkinson. Absent: Visitors Birdsong, Brown, J. Hartwell Harrison, and Williams. Grellet C. Simpson and Edgar E. Woodward were present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Messrs. R. B. Cardozo, T. Foster Witt, Jr., and H. A. Thomas of the trust and investment staff of State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts in Richmond were present during the consideration of the report on the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund. Mr. Vincent Shea was present during the discussion of the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund report, the Comptroller's report for the fiscal year 1965-66, the report on the Six-Year Capital Outlay Request, 1968-74, and the report on organizational changes in the Comptroller's office.

CONSOLIDATED UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT FUND
--------------------------------------

Representatives of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts presented a report on the Consolidated Endowment Fund of the University of Virginia for the year ending 25 January 1967.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. David W. Abbott as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard R. Abidin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Ernst O. Attinger as Professor of Physiology and of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Norman H. Bass as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $Mrs. LaNelle B. Baxter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 December 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert R. Cardell, Jr. as Associate Professor of Anatomy (Histology), for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ronald E. Clapper as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of.Mr. Raymond J. Cormier as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $Mr. Henry B. Creech as Lecturer in Speech Pathology and Audiology, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Dr. William J. Crowley, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Fred A. Diehl as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alistair M. Duckworth as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Donna H. Duckworth as Instructor in Microbiology, for one year, effective 15 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lionel R. Duisit as Associate Professor of French, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. O'Neil Ford as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Lecturer in Architecture, for two months, effective 1 April 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Francesco Forte as Visiting Professor of Economics, for the months of February, March, and May 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Spencer Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas J. S. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alan B. Howard as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Paul J. Kleppner as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frederick R. Lehmeyer as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Lauren G. Leighton as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gary H. Lindberg as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James F. Loucks, II as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Andrew R. MacAndrew as Lecturer in Russian, one-sixth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Giuseppe A. Mirri as Visiting Assistant Professor of Italian, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Wolfgang W. Moelleken as Associate Professor of German, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Alfred A. D. Moore as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Aaron W. Morrell as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Henry C. Moses as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John J. Nitti as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. William M. O'Brien as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James W. Ogilvie as Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Clinton E. Parker as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald E. Ramirez as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ralph Rapson as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Lecturer in Architecture, for two months, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Roy S. Roberts as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James L. Rovnyak as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ben J. Sargeant as Lecturer in Commerce, one-eighth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Marvin S. Schindler as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William G. Shenkir as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John L. Sullivan as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jose Maria Valverde as Professor of Spanish, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Hernan Vidal as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eugene Zaleski as Visiting Professor of Economics, for the month of April 1967, at a salary of $Mr. Philip H. Zoldester as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD SMITH AS ARTIST IN RESIDENCE
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Richard Smith be and he is hereby elected Artist in Residence, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby elected to the General Faculty, without change in salary or benefits, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Mr. Martin R. Davis, Jr., Catalogue Librarian, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 January 1967.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University be and he is hereby elected to the General Faculty, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Jr., University Librarian, to rank as Professor, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $ plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION AND OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. GEORGE E. BOYD
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. George E. Boyd as Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 February 1966, as approved by the Board on 11 December 1965, be and it is hereby cancelled.The President also announced that the appointment of Mr. George E. Boyd as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 February 1966, has been cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MR. GUNTHER M. WELL
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Gunther M. Weil as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for two years, effective 1 October 1966, as approved by the Board on 7 October 1966, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. TAHER EL GAMMAL
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Taher El Gammal as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, as approved by the Board on 7 October 1966, be and it is hereby changed from 15 August 1966 to 7 November 1966.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. KENNETH R. HALL
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Kenneth R. Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, as approved by the Board on 3 June 1966, be and it is hereby changed from 1 September 1966 to 1 February 1967.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Harry S. Abram as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. A. James Arnold as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Stuart H. Bartle as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Thomas G. Bender as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Evelyn P. Bickham as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. W. Dimmock Buxton as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Christopher Collins as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Harry J. Dell as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Guy M. Harbert, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Allan M. Lefer as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Yu-sheng Lin as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Carl S. Lingamfelter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, one-tenth time, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Douglas G. Mook as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. E. D. Vere Nicoll as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Miss Linda D. Robinson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Virginia W. Smith as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Larry E. Snyder as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. David V. Strider as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Terry M. Turner as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Vamik D. Volkan as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Jack Wakley as Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for three years, effective 8 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Don L. Walker as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Daniel E. Weiner as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Frederick B. Westervelt, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William J. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective 15 June 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Abraham W. Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, one-fifth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Josephine D. Arnold, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alan P. Batson, Associate Professor of Physics, to Professor of Computer Science, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Martin Battestin, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Frederic A. Berry, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Everett U. Crosby, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Edward E. Edgar, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geology, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John Graham, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Speech and Drama, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Peter Low, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Richard C. Shrum, Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. James E. Wesner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Morton C. Wilhelm, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Donald J. Wright, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology, for three years, effective 1 January 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Johan Zwaan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Martin Battestin, Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at Rice University.Mr. Chaitan P. Gupta, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to serve as an Instructor at the University of Chicago.Mr. Woodford D. McClellan, Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to pursue research in Europe on a Junior Fellowship Award from the National Humanities Foundation.Mr. Donald H. Miller, Assistant Professor of City Planning, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue advanced study leading to a doctoral degree in city planning under a National Science Foundation grant.Mr. Charles P. Nash, Professor of Law, for the period 1 February 1967 through 30 June 1967, without pay, to provide an opportunity for research.Mr. Charles R. Regan, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to visit the University of Montpellier, France, as a Fulbright Scholar.Mrs. Willie L. Rose, Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to pursue research on an American Council of Learned Societies grant.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, without pay, to serve as a Liaison Scientist in the Office of Naval Research, Branch Office, London.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Associate Professor of History, for the period 1 September 1967 through 31 January 1968, without pay, to pursue research in French Archives for a work on Jansenism in 17th Century France.Mr. Robert E. Stocking, Curator of Manuscripts, for one year, effective 13 March 1967, with half pay, to study at Columbia University for the Master of Library Science degree.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue research in Philosophy and Chinese in Charlottesville.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR DR. ROBERT R. WAGNER
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Dr. Robert R. Wagner, Professor of Microbiology, for the period 1 January 1967 through 30 June 1967, as approved by the Board on 10 December 1966, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Davy L. Bernard, from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Giuseppe A. Mirri, from Visiting Assistant Professor of Italian, to Assistant Professor of Italian, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter A. Schier, from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Johan Zwaan, from Visiting Assistant Professor of Anatomy, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective 1 January 1967.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Gary K. Ackers, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Carlos R. Ayers, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Robert M. Berne, Charles Slaughter Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Johnson T. Carpenter, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. William E. Craddock, Associate Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 October 1967.Dr. Charles L. Crockett, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. James D. Deck, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Cosmo A. DiFazio, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Milton H. Donaldson, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss, Associate Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry (Neurology), at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. John T. Dunn, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Taher El Gammal, Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater, Assistant Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Joseph P. Gilmore, Associate Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor of Microbiology and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1967.Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley, Professor of Pharmacology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Cloid D. Green, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 April 1967.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. George R. Hanna, Assistant Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Terring W. Heironimus, III, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. John S. Horsley, III, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $, effective 1 February 1967.Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. William S. Jordan, Jr., Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Calvin M. Kunin, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay, Instructor in Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. James B. Littlefield, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. William B. Looney, Associate Professor of Radiobiology and of Biophysics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Regina C. McCormack, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Lockhart B. McGuire, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. James Q. Miller, Assistant Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of $19,000, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $21,000, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Edwin S. Munson, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of $21,000, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. David S. Newcombe, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $15,250, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $21,500, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Grover C. Pitts, Associate Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $17,000, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Roger L. Ransom, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. James C. Respess, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Melville P. Roberts, Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Frank M. Shepard, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. William M. Sheppe, Jr., Associate Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry (Psychiatry), at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Gardner W. Smith, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Instructor in Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Nick Sperelakis, Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Richard L. Stafford, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. David D. Stone, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Thomas C. Westfall, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Edward C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. William J. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. Bobby T. Wood, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. James E. Wood, III, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. John C. Wyllie, Director of Libraries and Professor, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Ernst S. Dick, Associate Professor of German, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Wisconsin.Mr. Mark G. Foster, Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering, effective 31 January 1967 (to continue teaching as Professor of Electrical Engineering).Mr. Jurgen H. Grefe, Acting Assistant Professor of German, effective 31 January 1967, to return to Germany for personal reasons.Mr. John F. Holley, Assistant Professor of German, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at Old Dominion College.Mr. Ronald P. Melnik, Lecturer in Business Administration, effective 31 March 1967, to enter business.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Ernst O. Attinger as Director, Biomedical Engineering Program, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Dean, School of Architecture, for the period 1 February 1967 through 30 June 1972.Mr. Nicolas Cabrera as Chairman, Department of Physics, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap as Assistant Dean, Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Jr. as University Librarian, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective 1 July 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr. as Associate Comptroller, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. William E. Pitts as Purchasing Agent, effective 16 January 1967.Mr. Richard F. Shutts as Business Manager, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel as Acting Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 February 1967.Mr. John C. Wyllie as Director of Libraries of the University of Virginia, effective 1 February 1967.

ALICE M. AND GUY A. WILSON PROFESSORSHIP IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professorship in Electrical Engineering.

JOHN B. CARY CHAIR OF BIBLICAL HISTORY AND LITERATURE
-----------------------------------------------------

The President reported on his correspondence with the United Christian Missionary Society concerning the desire of that Society to terminate the agreement entered into on 17 December 1908 between the then Christian Woman's Board of Missions and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, under the terms of which income from an original endowment of $20,000 (subsequently increased to $49,500) was to be used to assist in the support of a chair to be known as the John B. Cary Chair of Biblical History and Literature. After a review of the circumstances surrounding the establishment of the Trust Agreement and the conditions thereof, the President advised the Board that it is his belief that it is in the best interest of the University to agree to the proposal of the Board of Trustees of the United Christian Missionary Society that negotiations be entered into with "The University of Virginia for the express purpose of terminating the agreement and support given by the United Society to the Bible Chair at the university, and to this end the president \[of the Christian Missionary Society\] is further authorized to execute any and all documents and agreements necessary for the termination of this support."

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to enter into negotiations with the Christian Missionary Society for the purpose of terminating the Trust Agreement between the Christian Woman's Board of Missions and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated 17 December 1908, and, on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to give his assent to that termination.

REPORT ON SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY REQUEST, 1968-74
--------------------------------------------------

The President and the Comptroller reported on the Six-Year Capital Outlay Request to the Governor and the General Assembly covering the period 1968-1974. At the conclusion of the report, a discussion ensued as to the method for presenting the capital outlay request and the biennial budget request to the Board of Visitors. Following the discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in future years the President be and he is hereby authorized to transmit to the members of the Board a copy of the six-year capital outlay request prior to or concurrently with the transmission of the request to the Governor's Office, and that the biennial budget request be approved either by the full Board or by the Executive Committee acting on its behalf; and provided further that the same procedure shall be followed in the presentation of the capital outlay and the biennial budget requests by the Chancellor of Mary Washington College.

COMPTROLLER'S REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1965-66
------------------------------------------------

The President and the Comptroller summarized the contents of the Comptroller's Report for the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1966. A copy of the report has been mailed to each member of the Board.

REPORT ON ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES IN THE COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE
------------------------------------------------------------

The Comptroller reported on certain changes which have been made in the organization of the Comptroller's office.

APPOINTMENT OF SESQUICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

The President reported on his appointment of a committee under the chairmanship of Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Associate Professor of Law, to recommend appropriate and useful ways of marking the Sesquicentennial year in 1969. Representing the Board of Visitors on this committee will be Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.

ADDITIONAL LOAN FOR PURCHASE OF MICROSCOPES
-------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 9 February 1963 approved the renting of microscopes to medical students and authorized a loan in the amount of $87,500 to be used for the purchase of microscopes. The conditions of the loan were that it be repaid with interest at 4-1/2 percent; that an appropriate amount for insurance and maintenance be provided; that the costs be recovered by an annual fee of $40 per medical student; and that the plan become effective with the entering class in September 1963 and be extended to each entering class thereafter. The original loan has been reduced to a current balance of $70,520.

The President stated further that the Dean of the School of Medicine has requested authorization to purchase 35 additional microscopes which are needed for the planned increase in medical students and in graduate students in the basic science departments.

The request is that the loan authorization be increased from $87,500 to $110,000.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to make available to the School of Medicine, as needed, an amount not to exceed $110,000 at any one time, to be used for the purchase of microscopes, the conditions of the original loan authorization of $87,500 as incorporated in the Board's resolution of 9 February 1963 to be continued in effect.

INCREASES IN CHARGES FOR HOSPITAL CARE
--------------------------------------

ACCOMMODATIONS

EXISTING RATE

PROPOSED RATE

INCREASE

EXTENSION OF DAILY POTENTIAL INCREASE

Private rooms

(34)

$26.00

$31.00

$ 5.00

$ 170.00

Private rooms

(12)

27.00

32.00

5.00

60.00

Private rooms

(8)

28.00

33.00

5.00

40.00

Private rooms

(2)

35.00

40.00

5.00

10.00

Mother-Child rooms

(10)

24.00

29.00

5.00

50.00

Semi-private

Two beds

(280)

22.00

28.00

6.00

1,680.00

Three beds

(24)

21.00

26.00

5.00

120.00

Four beds

(76)

20.00

24.00

4.00

304.00

Pediatric beds, all

(61)

20.00

25.00

5.00

305.00

ACCOMMODATIONS

EXISTING RATE

PROPOSED RATE

INCREASE

EXTENSION OF DAILY POTENTIAL INCREASE

Psychiatric

Private

(8)

$27.00

$32.00

$ 5.00

$ 40.00

Two beds

(7)

24.00

29.00

5.00

35.00

Three beds

(3)

24.00

29.00

5.00

15.00

Four beds

(20)

23.00

28.00

5.00

100.00

\----------

Total Beds

(551)

$ 2,929.00

The President reported that, as discussed briefly in the meeting of the Medical Committee on 8 December 1966, it will be necessary to increase the daily care rates at the University Hospital, effective 1 March 1967. These proposed increases which, if enacted, will produce an additional income of approximately $250,000 per year, are necessary for the following principal reasons:

(1) The requirement for Medicare Program reimbursement that charges be properly related to costs and that there be a single rate structure for all patients, regardless of status as private, semi-private, or service patients. The single rate structure for ancillary service was implemented 1 July 1966 to comply with this requirement. The increase in daily care rates is necessary to relate them properly to cost.

(2) The need to maintain private and semi-private charges in proper relation to costs so that State appropriations are not used to subsidize private patient hospitalization costs. Average per diem charges to private patients for the fiscal year ended 30 June 1966 exceeded costs by $2.22 but average per diem charges for all patients were $3.33 less than cost. As mentioned to the Medical Committee, some adjustments in charges for ancillary services have been accomplished and, as mentioned above, a single rate structure was implemented. It is estimated that present average per diem cost is $44-$45 in contrast with $40.86 for the fiscal year 1965-66.

(3) The anticipated impact on operating expenses resulting from implementation of new Federal requirements with respect to payment for overtime. While every effort will be made to minimize overtime, it will be unavoidable in providing adequate nursing coverage, particularly with a marked decrease in student nurse participation in patient care. A recent study projects an anticipated additional wage and salary annual cost for overtime which may approximate $100,000.

(4) The need to maintain a proper relation of charges to costs for services rendered Blue Cross patients in order that the hospital may obtain maximum allowable reimbursement under its participation contract.

(5) The increasing cost of supplies, equipment, and food which were projected in the biennial budget request but which were not recognized adequately in appropriations for the biennium.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed rates for care at the University Hospital as shown below be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 March 1967: ACCOMMODATIONSEXISTING RATEPROPOSED RATEINCREASEEXTENSION OF DAILY POTENTIAL INCREASEPrivate rooms(34)$26.00$31.00$ 5.00$ 170.00Private rooms(12)27.0032.005.0060.00Private rooms(8)28.0033.005.0040.00Private rooms(2)35.0040.005.0010.00Mother-Child rooms(10)24.0029.005.0050.00Semi-privateTwo beds(280)22.0028.006.001,680.00Three beds(24)21.0026.005.00120.00Four beds(76)20.0024.004.00304.00Pediatric beds, all(61)20.0025.005.00305.00 ACCOMMODATIONSEXISTING RATEPROPOSED RATEINCREASEEXTENSION OF DAILY POTENTIAL INCREASEPsychiatricPrivate(8)$27.00$32.00$ 5.00$ 40.00Two beds(7)24.0029.005.0035.00Three beds(3)24.0029.005.0015.00Four beds(20)23.0028.005.00100.00----------Total Beds(551)$ 2,929.00

A projection of the above daily potential increase in charges would produce ($2,929 x 365 days x 80% occupancy) $855,268 additional charges on an annual basis.

AUTHORIZATION FOR ASSOCIATE PROVOST FOR RESEARCH TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND TRAINING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS at the 10 December 1966 meeting of the Board of Visitors the President announced the appointment of Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau as Associate Provost for Research, effective 1 February 1967;WHEREAS Mr. Kuhlthau will be responsible for the review and approval of all research and training grants and contracts;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau be and he is hereby authorized to sign on behalf of the University of Virginia all grants and contracts for research and training.

INCREASE IN RENTAL CHARGES FOR DORMITORIES, MARRIED STUDENT HOUSING, AND STAFF HOUSING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Men's Dormitories

Present Rates 1966-67

Rates Effective for 1967-68

Alderman Road and Observatory Road

Double room, per student

$ 300

$ 325

Monroe Hill

Double room, per student

300

350

McCormick Road

(Renovated rooms) Double room, per student

250

300

(Unrenovated rooms) Double room, per student

230

280

Single room

280

325

Randall, Levering, and Crackerbox

Double room, per student

250

280

Single room

280

325

Lawns and Ranges

Double room, per student

230

280

Small single room

280

300

Large single room

300

325

Women's Dormitory

Mary Munford Hall

Double room, per student

250

300

Single room

300

350

Married Student Housing

Copeley Hill and University

Gardens Apartments

One bedroom, per month

80

90

Two bedrooms, per month

95

105

Three bedrooms, per month

110

120

Staff Housing

Piedmont Apartments

One bedroom, per month

80

90

Two bedroom, per month

95

105

Present Rates 1966-67

Rates Effective for 1967-68

Piedmont Houses

Three bedrooms, per month

$ 95

$ 105

Piedmont (Farm house converted to four apartments)

One bedroom, per month

65

75

One bedroom, per month

70

80

Two bedrooms, per month

82

92

Two bedrooms, per month

90

100

The President reported that the 1966 General Assembly made a separate appropriation for the maintenance and operation of auxiliary enterprises to be financed solely from rents, fees, and other charges for the use of facilities, such as dormitories and married student housing. Prior to the 1966-68 biennium, for employees working in these activities, the State provided the matching funds for social security and for payments into the State retirement system. In addition, the Governor approved a substantial salary increase for maids and janitors, effective 1 January 1967. These costs will now have to be borne by the enterprises involved.

To cover the above increases in costs, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rental charges for married student housing and staff housing as specified below be increased, effective 1 July 1967, and that the rental charges for dormitories as specified below be increased, effective 1 September 1967: Men's DormitoriesPresent Rates 1966-67Rates Effective for 1967-68Alderman Road and Observatory RoadDouble room, per student$ 300$ 325Monroe HillDouble room, per student300350McCormick Road(Renovated rooms) Double room, per student250300(Unrenovated rooms) Double room, per student230280Single room280325Randall, Levering, and CrackerboxDouble room, per student250280Single room280325Lawns and RangesDouble room, per student230280Small single room280300Large single room300325Women's DormitoryMary Munford HallDouble room, per student250300Single room300350Married Student HousingCopeley Hill and UniversityGardens ApartmentsOne bedroom, per month8090Two bedrooms, per month95105Three bedrooms, per month110120Staff HousingPiedmont ApartmentsOne bedroom, per month8090Two bedroom, per month95105 Present Rates 1966-67Rates Effective for 1967-68Piedmont HousesThree bedrooms, per month$ 95$ 105Piedmont (Farm house converted to four apartments)One bedroom, per month6575One bedroom, per month7080Two bedrooms, per month8292Two bedrooms, per month90100

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 60,400.95

Free Service to Counties and Cities

177,449.40

\------------

$ 237,850.35

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1418, 1419, 1422, 1423, 1430, 1431, 1433, 1434, 1435, 1437, and 1438, aggregating $237,850.35, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 60,400.95Free Service to Counties and Cities177,449.40------------$ 237,850.35

TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the drive to raise funds to match the gift establishing an endowment for the Tayloe Murphy Institute.

DESIGN ARCHITECTS FOR THE NEW EDUCATION BUILDING
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to employ Caudill, Rowlett and Scott, of Houston, Texas, as design architects for the new building for the School of Education and the general area of the site of the new building including the underground parking garage.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO VIRGINIA STAGE LINES, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby express our deep appreciation to the Virginia Stage Lines, Inc. for their courtesy in providing the bus and the driver for the tour of the University Grounds conducted on 16 February 1967; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary be and he is hereby instructed to send a copy of this resolution to the Virginia Stage Lines, Inc. as a mark of our appreciation for its generosity.

COMMUNICATION FROM THE GARDEN CLUB OF VIRGINIA
----------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the Secretary to read a letter addressed to him from Mrs. Benjamin F. Parrott, President of The Garden Club of Virginia, dated 11 February 1967, in which The Garden Club requested that the Board of Visitors consider granting to The Garden Club of Virginia space in the restored Rotunda as an archive for the records and permanent restoration plans of The Garden Club. Space is now provided to The Garden Club in the Alderman Library Building archives.

After discussion, the Secretary was instructed to reply to Mrs. Parrott to the effect that the matter would be taken under advisement but that note should be made that the demands for space in the restored Rotunda for the needs of the University would be so great that it was doubtful that any such allocation as that requested could be approved.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received of committee actions and other matters from the Finance Committee, Medical Committee, Buildings and Grounds Committee, and Educational Policy Committee. The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Hobbs, stated that he and the Comptroller of the University, Mr. Shea, had, as instructed, re-examined the amounts of the surety bonds held by University employees and had authorized an increase in the amount of the bonds to one million dollars for each defalcation.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mrs. Ruth T. Friedman as Assistant Professor of Biology, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a semester salary of $.Mr. Peter B. Sheridan, Jr. as Lecturer in History, one-eighth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.

DEATH OF DR. ALAN S. PEIRCE
---------------------------

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Dr. Peirce was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to his widow and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Dr. Peirce's distinguished and devoted services to Mary Washington College.

REPORT ON SIX-YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY REQUEST, 1968-74
--------------------------------------------------

The Chancellor and the Bursar reported on the Six-Year Capital Outlay Request to the Governor and the General Assembly for Mary Washington College covering the period 1968-74.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty at George Mason College:Mr. Dimitrios Papaconstantopoulos as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of George Mason College of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby elected to the Faculty of George Mason College, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the catalogue of George Mason College by the title of the library position only:Mr. Patrick J. Larkin as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 January 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor, George Mason College, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.

ARCHITECTS FOR THE NEW ACADEMIC BUILDING FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to employ the firm of Vosbeck-Vosbeck and Associates as architects for the new academic building for George Mason College.

NEW MAJOR PROGRAMS AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Chancellor and the Faculty of George Mason College have proposed to the Provost the establishment of two new major programs leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree in Chemistry and in Mathematics. At present the College offers majors in Biology, History, English, and Business and Public Administration. The addition of these two programs, the President explained, is an important step in the necessary expansion of the undergraduate program of George Mason College. The President reported further that it is estimated that within three years each of these majors will have approximately fifty students.

Under the rules and regulations adopted by the State Council of Higher Education, at its meeting on 26 July 1965, approval by the State Council is required for each new major program leading to a degree. The deadline is 1 March 1967 for submitting for approval new major programs to be offered beginning in September 1967.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that George Mason College be and it is hereby authorized to offer new major programs leading to the degrees of Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry and Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics, and that the President be and he is hereby authorized to submit these two new major programs to the State Council of Higher Education for its approval.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Stanley H. Botts as Assistant Professor of Commerce, one-fourth time, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James K. Mullins as Assistant Professor of Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Marvis C. Webb as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Roy L. Wells as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Carol E. Zunker, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $ effective 1 December 1966.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Chester H. Russell, Associate Professor of Education, effective 7 December 1966, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys as Acting Dean of Students, for the period 1 December 1966 through 20 June 1967.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERARCHITECT FOR THE NEW LIBRARY BUILDING FOR PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to employ Mr. Coates Carter as the primary architect for the new library building for Patrick Henry College, provided that he associates himself with design consultants in which the University concurs.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty at the Eastern Shore Branch:Mr. Daniel F. Curtin as Instructor in Commerce, for one year, effective 1 February 1967, at a session salary of $ plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the Eastern Shore Branch of the School of General Studies of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby elected to the Faculty of the Eastern Shore Branch of the School of General Studies, without change in salary or benefits, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the catalogue of the School of General Studies by the title of the library position only:Mr. Donald R. Haynes, Librarian, to rank as Assistant Professor, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. James P. Hanlon, Assistant Professor of English, effective 31 January 1967, for personal reasons.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:40 p.m.
