---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1967'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1967) April 8, 1967
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 8, 1967

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 Minor Hall 8 April 1967
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 8 April 1967 in the office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, J. Hartwell Harrison, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Walker, and Williams. Absent: Visitors A. S. Harrison, Jr., Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, and Wilkinson. Grellet C. Simpson, Edgar E. Woodward, and Michael Houston were present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 18 February 1967, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Marjorie G. Baker as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Furman W. Barton as Associate Professor of Applied Mechanics, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Thomas W. Best as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $Mr. Rolland A. Bowers as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $Mr. Charles B. Braden as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert F. Bryan as Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 October 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ralph Cohen as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Frederick Davidson as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Benjamin A. DeGraff as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bernard Dunau as Visiting John B. Minor Professor of Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles F. Dunkl as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Samuel S. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 April 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 March 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Vernon E. George as Lecturer in City Planning, School of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Walter Greiner as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. David B. Harned as Professor of Religion, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Susan K. Heritage as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 20 March 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John Kay as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. James D. Kitchin, III as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Alex B. Lacy, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Government, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Cecil Y. Lang as Professor of English, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. George H. Lenz as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Graham Lilly as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Regina M. Mays as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period 6 February 1967 through 11 July 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. George A. McAlpine as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Charles B. Moore as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $Mr. Gary A. Orfield as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr. as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Sheila A. Richardson as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for the period 6 February 1967 through 11 July 1967, at a salary of $.Mrs. Naomi Ritter as Instructor in German, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Larry L. Sale as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Antonin Scalia as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Hartwig Schmidt as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. C. David Sides as Lecturer in Architecture, for four months, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Sven-Johan Spanberg as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Peter H. Taylor as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Dr. Torbjorn Westgaard as Acting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 August 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Thomas R. White, III as Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. David C. Wood as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for two years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF LIBRARIAN
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of the University be and she is hereby elected to the General Faculty, without change in salary or benefits, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Miss Anne E. H. Freudenberg, Curator of Manuscripts, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 March 1967.

THE PAUL GOODLOE McINTIRE PROFESSORSHIP IN THE HISTORY OF ART
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to be known as the Paul Goodloe McIntire Professorship in the History of Art.

ELECTION OF MR. FREDERICK HARTT AS PAUL GOODLOE McINTIRE PROFESSOR OF THE HISTORY OF ART
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frederick Hartt be and he is hereby elected as Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of the History of Art, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. KEVIN M. McCRIMMON
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, as approved by the Board on 10 December 1966, be and it is hereby changed from 1 September 1967 to 1 July 1967.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM M. O'BRIEN
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. William M. O'Brien as Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, as approved by the Board on 18 February 1967, be and it is hereby changed from 1 July 1967 to 15 May 1967, his appointment to terminate on 30 June 1970.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Herbert M. Burks, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harry J. Dell as Assistant Professor of History, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. John S. Horner as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Lyle H. Lanier, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Donald G. Loach as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frank M. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John A. Sanderson as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. William F. Beazer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ralph C. Bralley, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Helen G. Burr, Associate Professor, to Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Avery Catlin, Associate Professor, to Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Associate Professor, to Professor of Classics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Leonard T. Curtis, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of , plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard L. Jennings, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $11,000, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $1,500 for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. John F. Leahy, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, Associate Professor, to Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John F. Mesinger, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James W. Moore, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Howard O. Ozmon, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. William A. Rotch, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Roy A. Schotland, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Clyde R. Smith, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Joseph L. Blotner, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.Mr. James T. Cargile, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the period 1 September 1967 through 31 January 1968, without pay, to teach and carry on research and publication at the University of Michigan.Mr. Everett U. Crosby, Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to pursue research in England and France on the Anglo-Norman episcopate.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period 1 February 1967 through 28 March 1967, without pay, to participate in Public Health Experience.Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis, Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, without pay, to accept a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship.Mr. James W. England, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to carry on research at the Institute for Advanced Study on a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship.Mr. Peter S. Landweber, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to carry on research at the Institute for Advanced Study on a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowship.Mr. M. Donald MacInnis, Associate Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, with one-third pay, to serve as a Fellow in the Cooperative Program in Humanities for 1967-68 for the purpose of composing and working with computer-synthesized music.Mr. J. Lawrence Mcem, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period 1 September 1967 through 31 August 1968, without pay, to accept a position as Visiting Staff Member of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Miss Jean C. Ervin, from Lecturer in Speech Pathology and Audiology, to Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Ralph Eisenberg, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $ plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Dr. Julian I. Kitay, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Associate Provost for Research, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 February 1967.Dr. Calvin M. Kunin, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. William J. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. George P. Garrett, Associate Professor of English, effective 31 January 1967, to devote full time to creative writing.Mr. Fred Gornick, Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position as Chairman of the Chemistry Department of the University of Maryland at Baltimore.Mr. Thomas A. Gover, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at Gustavus Adolphus College.Mr. Paul E. Kelly, Associate Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Georgia.Mr. Stephen J. Manning, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Kentucky.Mr. Edward A. Mearns, Jr., Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1967, to accept the deanship of a new law school to be established as part of Long Island University.Mr. John L. Peterman, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of Chicago.Mr. Burette S. Tillinghast, Associate Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1967, to accept a position at the University of South Alabama.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted: by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Lieutenant Commander Angus Macaulay as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1967.Major McLendon G. Morris as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective July 1967.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Robert F. Bryan as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 October 1967.Mr. Avery Catlin as Associate Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period 15 April 1967 through 30 June 1972.Mr. Ralph Cohen as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Chairman of the Diploma Program, School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. Walter Greiner as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. Charles E. Hamner, Jr., as Director of the Vivarium, School of Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. David B. Harned as Chairman, Department of Religion, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Frederick Hartt as Chairman, Department of Art, for the period 1 September 1967 through 30 June 1972.Mr. A. E. Dick Howard as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Cecil Y. Lang as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 July 1967.Dr. James Q. Miller as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.Dr. George R. Minor as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Hartwig Schmidt as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1967.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. KEVIN M. McCRIMMON
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the appointment of Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, as announced by the President on 10 December 1966, be and it is hereby changed from 1 September 1967 to 1 July 1967.

DEATH OF DR. ALBERT J. PAQUIN, JR.
----------------------------------

From the Rector, the President, and the individual Visitors there were expressions of the affection and esteem in which Dr. Paquin was held, and the Secretary was directed to convey to his next of kin and to record in the permanent minutes of the Board the deep sense of loss felt by the Board and the gratitude of the Visitors, both as a body and as individuals, for Dr. Paquin's distinguished and devoted services to the University.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 8,554.69

Free service to Counties and Cities

75,057.14

\-----------

Total

$ 83,611.83

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1445, 1446, 1449, and 1450, aggregating $83,611.83, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 8,554.69Free service to Counties and Cities75,057.14-----------Total$ 83,611.83

STUDY OF POSSIBLE ADMISSION OF WOMEN TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES AT CHARLOTTESVILLE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby empowered to conduct a study to determine whether there is need for the admission of women to the College of Arts and Sciences at Charlottesville;RESOLVED FURTHER that if the study should establish the existence of need for such admission, the President be and he is hereby empowered to conduct a study of the feasibility and means of such admission; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the findings of the study or studies be presented to the Board of Visitors for its consideration.

VISIT OF THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION
----------------------------------------------

The President reported in detail on the visit of the State Council of Higher Education to the University at Charlottesville on 21 March 1967.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON BLANDY FARM
------------------------------------------

The Chairman of the Special Committee on Blandy Farm, Mr. Kuykendall, reported to the Board on the current status of the Committee's study of future uses of the Blandy Experimental Farm at Boyce, Virginia. He stated that the Committee had decided to ask a retired member of the faculty at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Mr. Harry M. Love, to prepare a study which would be concerned both with improvements in existing farm management practices and with other potential uses of the Farm. He expressed the hope that Mr. Love's report would be available for the consideration of the Special Committee prior to the June meeting of the Board.

The President reported on the request from Mr. Lewis F. McLaren, Headmaster of Grafton School, to rent one of the buildings at the Farm for the use of that School. The President stated that, after consultation with Mr. Kuykendall, he had written Mr. McLaren in a letter dated 17 March 1967 that it appeared that the Farm building could not be rented under the terms of the donor's will but that he would have to seek further advice from the Special Committee and from the full Board at its meeting in June. Following the President's presentation, the Secretary was directed to write Mr. McLaren and inform him that it would not be possible to rent the building as requested.

LOAN AGREEMENT WITH GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) has negotiated a draft of a loan agreement with the United States General Services Administration (GSA) under the terms of which GSA will make a long-term loan of certain machine tools to be used in research projects conducted by RLES. The estimated value of the equipment to be acquired under this agreement is $50,000.

In order that this loan agreement may be executed, the President reported that it will be necessary to have a resolution adopted by the Board authorizing the Comptroller of the University to sign the agreement. Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to execute a loan agreement between the United States General Services Administration and the University of Virginia under the terms of which the University will receive on a long-term loan certain machine tools to be used to support research projects carried on in the Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences; andBE IT RESOLVED FURTHER that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized to execute any amendments and supplements to the agreement and to perform all things necessary in connection therewith.

ARCHITECTS FOR LAW SCHOOL-GRADUATE BUSINESS COMPLEX
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Hugh Stubbins and Associates of Boston be employed as the architects for the Law School-Graduate Business Complex.

POLICY ON RELEASE OF BOARD OF VISITORS' ACTIONS
-----------------------------------------------

The President reported that most information regarding Board meetings is released to the press on the day of the meeting. Under this practice, however, many important actions of the Board, and specially noteworthy elections to the faculty, had not received the widespread dissemination that they deserved. He stated, therefore, that he planned, unless there was objection, to delay the release of certain selected actions until the beginning of the following week, with consideration being given during that week to equal treatment of morning and afternoon newspapers. Following his presentation, no objections to this procedure were heard.

The President announced, therefore, that the items approved at this meeting which will not be reported immediately, but which will be released beginning 10 April 1967, will include the new elections in the Departments of Art and Religion and the appointment of new Members to the Center for Advanced Studies.

STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
----------------------

The Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, Mr. Faulconer, presented a report to the Board on the request of the Student Council that final authority for allocating the proceeds of the Student Activities fee, other than the sum required for the financing of the operations of The Cavalier Daily, be vested in the Student Council. Under the existing arrangement, which was prescribed by the Board of Visitors at its meeting of 14 April 1956, the Student Activities Committee, consisting of faculty and students, has final authority for such allocation but over the years has consistently sought advice from the Student Council on these allocations.

Following the report, a lengthy discussion ensued concerning the request. As it appeared to the members of the Board that the present system was working well, that the advice of the Student Council was always sought, and that there was student membership on the Student Activities Committee, the conclusion was that no change be made in the present arrangements for the allocation of the Student Activities fee. The President was requested, however, to study the categories of activities supported by the Student Activities fee and to report further to the Board at a later meeting.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, and the Mary Washington College Committee. The action of the Buildings and Grounds Committee approving the plans for the proposed addition to the Nuclear Reactor building was received.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Zeba Ansari as Visiting Lecturer in Literature, Art, and Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of $.Mrs. Paola F. Bortone as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Sigrid I. Daffner as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Daniel A. Dervin as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Krishna Essauloff as Visiting Lecturer in English Literature, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of $.Mr. Peter A. Fellows as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Victor A. Fingerhut as Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John K. George as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of $ for the first year.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mrs. Joy Michael as Visiting Lecturer in Drama, for one semester, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of $.Miss Patricia J. Patton as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert M. Saunders as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Raman K. Singh as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Nicole Thomas as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alexander K. Tyree as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Murat W. Williams as Visiting Lecturer in Political Economy (part time), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Norma J. Woodward as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Portuguese), for one year, one-half time, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard M. Zeleznock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Joseph Bozicevic as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Russian), for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Anne H. Bruckner as Instructor in Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Margaret S. Early as Instructor in English, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a base salary of $, the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.Mrs. Jeanne C. Goddin as Instructor in Music (Harp), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary to be paid on a per-student fee basis.Mr. Henry L. Halem as Instructor in Art, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $Mr. Richard E. Hansen as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Diane F. Hatch as Instructor in Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Catherine H. Hook as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mildred Cates Jamison as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a base salary of $, the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.Mr. Robert B. Jessen as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bernard L. Mahoney, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Lydie S. Mann as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Jane A. Martin as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Katherine F. Moran as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts, part time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Paul G. Muick as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Sandra Peabody as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Patricia C. Pierce as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mary Jane Rossabi as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard L. Sarchet as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jaime Sendra as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Catherine H. Shearer as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made:Mr. James E. Baker, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Stanley F. Bulley, Associate Professor, to Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Andrew Buni, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Elizabeth A. Clark, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Religion, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Mildred A. Droste, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Jean Slater Edson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Miriam J. Greenberg, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. William W. Griffith, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Emily Haymes, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Anne Fortune Henderson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Miriam Bowes Hoge, Associate Professor, to Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael Houston, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter B. Kelly, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Albert R. Klein, Associate Professor, to Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Helen R. Luntz, Associate Professor, to Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. John C. Manolis, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. A. Ray Merchent, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Nancy H. Mitchell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. James R. Nazzaro, Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Samuel H. Phillips, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Winifred W. Updike, Associate Professor, to Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph C. Vance, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. George M. Van Sant, Associate Professor, to Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Benjamin F. Zimdars, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Miss Margery E. Arnold, Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for the first semester of the 1967-68 session, with one-half pay, to continue her studies toward a doctorate at the University of Maryland.Mr. Lewis P. Fickett, Associate Professor of Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to accept a visiting lectureship in India under the United States-India Women's College Exchange Program.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, with one-half salary, to continue his studies toward a doctorate at the University of Pennsylvania.Miss Rosemary Herman, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue her studies at the University of Wisconsin.Mrs. Cornelia Oliver, Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, to continue graduate study towards a doctorate at Catholic University.Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt, Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, with one-half salary, for predoctoral studies through a National Institutes of Health Fellowship at the Medical College of Virginia.Mr. Richard L. Sarchet, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, without pay, for study towards a doctorate at the University of Virginia.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Samuel O. Bird, Associate Professor of Geography and Geology, at a salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James H. Croushore, Professor of English, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent ($) for summer work and 15 percent ($) for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Samuel T. Emory, Associate Professor of Geography and Geology, at a salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Donald E. Glover, Assistant Professor of English, at a salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lafayette J. Jones, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden, Professor of English, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent ($) for summer work and 15 percent ($) for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 July 1967.Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Miss Elizabeth A. Clark as Chairman of the Department of Religion, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. James H. Croushore as Associate Dean of the College, effective 1 July 1967. Mr. Croushore is Professor and Chairman of the English Department.Miss Mildred A. Droste as Assistant Dean of Students, effective 1 September 1967.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway as Assistant Dean of Students and Director of Student Personnel Services, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Michael Houston as Assistant to the Chancellor, effective 1 April 1967. Mr. Houston is Director of Admissions and Assistant Professor of History.Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell as Chairman of the Department of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden as Dean of the College, effective 1 September 1967.Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1967.

FACULTY SALARY SCALE
--------------------

Present

Proposed 1 September 1967

Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

$ 10,400

$ 10,700

10,800

11,100

11,200

11,500

11,600

11,900

12,000

12,300

12,400

12,700

Associate Professor

(Interval - 2 years)

8,800

9,100

9,200

9,500

9,600

9,900

10,000

10,300

10,400

10,700

Assistant Professor

(Interval - 1 year)

7,800

8,200

8,100

8,500

8,400

8,800

8,700

9,100

Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

6,600

7,000

6,900

7,300

7,200

7,600

7,500

7,900

Assistant Instructor

(Interval - 1 year)

5,400

6,000

5,700

6,300

6,000

6,600

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1967, the Mary Washington College faculty salary scale, as shown below, be and it is hereby approved: PresentProposed 1 September 1967Professor(Interval - 2 years)$ 10,400$ 10,70010,80011,10011,20011,50011,60011,90012,00012,30012,40012,700Associate Professor(Interval - 2 years)8,8009,1009,2009,5009,6009,90010,00010,30010,40010,700Assistant Professor(Interval - 1 year)7,8008,2008,1008,5008,4008,8008,7009,100Instructor(Interval - 1 year)6,6007,0006,9007,3007,2007,6007,5007,900Assistant Instructor(Interval - 1 year)5,4006,0005,7006,3006,0006,600

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
--------------------------------

Year

Residential

Non-Residential

Total

1966

1704

110

1814\* \*The actual enrollment was 2015

1968

1854

120

1974

1970

2004

120

2124

1972

2004

125

2129

Residential

Non-Residential

Total

2038

153

2191

At the request of the Chancellor, Mr. Michael Houston, Assistant to the Chancellor and Director of Admissions, reported on enrollment projections through 1972. The Assistant to the Chancellor reported that, at the present time, Mary Washington College is enrolling all qualified residents of Virginia who make timely applications for admission to the four-year liberal arts curriculum offered by the College. In February 1965, the College prepared the following enrollment projection for the period 1965-72:

YearResidentialNon-ResidentialTotal196617041101814\* \*The actual enrollment was 2015 196818541201974197020041202124197220041252129

The actual enrollment was 2015

The estimated enrollment for September 1967 is:

ResidentialNon-ResidentialTotal20381532191

Until the situation changes and until additional information is available regarding the impact on enrollment of students from two- and four-year multi-purpose and technical institutions, no change in the projections set forth above is anticipated. It should also be noted that the 1965 projection was based on the assumption that there would be a reduction of 140 overcrowded spaces - a proposal which as yet has not been carried out.

CHANGE IN TUITION AND FEE STRUCTURE
-----------------------------------

Present

Proposed

Virginia

Out-of-State

Virginia

Out-of-State

Students

Students

Tuition

$ None

$ 600

$ None

$ 650

General College Fees

505

505

580

580

Student Activity Fee

27

27

27

27

Residential Fee

285

285

285

285

Board

333

333

308

308

Total - Session of Nine Months

$1,150

$1,750

$ 1,200

$1,850

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following tuition and fee charges for Mary Washington College be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 September 1967: PresentProposedVirginiaOut-of-StateVirginiaOut-of-StateStudentsStudentsTuition$ None$ 600$ None$ 650General College Fees505505580580Student Activity Fee27272727Residential Fee285285285285Board333333308308Total - Session of Nine Months$1,150$1,750$ 1,200$1,850

STUDY OF COLLEGE'S ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
----------------------------------------------

On behalf of the Mary Washington College Committee, the Chairman, Mr. Lewis, proposed that the consulting firm of Heald, Hobson and Associates of New York City be employed to prepare a study of the organizational structure of the non-academic offices of Mary Washington College and present its findings and recommendations for the consideration of the Committee, the Chancellor, the President, and the full Board prior to the June meeting, if that proves possible. The Chairman reported further that the Chancellor had been consulted and that he was in full accord with the proposal. Mr. Lewis reported also that he had discussed the proposal with Mr. Hobbs, Chairman of the Finance Committee, who was not able to be present at this meeting, and that Mr. Hobbs had given his approval.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization is hereby given for the employment of the firm of Heald, Hobson and Associates of New York City to make recommendations concerning the organizational structure of the non-academic offices of Mary Washington College, if possible, in time for consideration at the June meeting of the Board.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The Chancellor reported on the current status of the construction program at the College.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. W. Frank Steely as Professor of History, effective 1 July 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Economics, to Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1967.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. W. Frank Steely as Dean of Clinch Valley College, for five years, effective 1 July 1967.

FACULTY RETIREMENTS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------

The President discussed certain forthcoming faculty retirements at Clinch Valley College and received permission from the Board to propose at the June 1967 meeting certain specific actions relating to those retirements which do not meet the full requirements of election to the position of professor emeritus.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at George Mason College:Mr. Richard F. Gibbons as Lecturer in Accounting, for one semester, effective 15 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert C. Gibson as Professor of Education, effective 1 August 1967, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. James L. Jackson as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bennett E. Koffman as Lecturer in Government, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frank M. Spindler as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mr. Raymond H. Spuhler as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Thomas M. Davis as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Miss Eleanor J. McKeithen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Evelyn L. Pugh as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1967, at a session salary of $.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Robert C. Gibson as Chairman, Department of Education, for five years, effective 1 August 1967.Mr. James L. Jackson as Chairman, Department of Languages, for five years, effective 1 September 1967.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSDEGREE OF ASSOCIATE IN NURSING TECHNOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Patrick Henry College of the School of General Studies be and it is hereby authorized to offer the degree of Associate in Nursing Technology, effective 1 September 1967, and that the President be and he is hereby authorized to recommend the approval of the new degree to the State Council of Higher Education of Virginia.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:45 p.m.

WC:dbc
