---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1968'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 MINOR HALL 17 February 1968
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 17 February 1968 in the Office of the President with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Potter, Wilkinson, and Williams.. Absent: Visitor Walker. Michael Houston, Grellet C. Simpson, and Edgar E. Woodward were present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters. Messrs. Joseph A. Atkins, R. B. Cardozo, and H. A. Thomas of the trust and investment staff of State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts in Richmond were present during the consideration of the report on the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund. Mr. Vincent Shea was present during the discussion of the University's Consolidated Endowment Fund report and the Comptroller's report for the fiscal year 1966-67.

The minutes of the meeting of 9 December 1967, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

CONSOLIDATED UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT FUND
--------------------------------------

Representatives of the State-Planters Bank of Commerce and Trusts presented a report on the Consolidated Endowment Fund of the University of Virginia for the year ending 25 January 1968.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. David B. Anthony as Visiting Professor of History, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Curtis M. Brooks as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Jeannette A. Brown as Lecturer in Education, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Thomas V. Czarnowski as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Donald A. Danielson as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Dieter Drechsel as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Hoyt N. Duggan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. David H. Flaherty as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Michael Fowler as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Dante Germino as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for two years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Frank O. Goodman as Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for two years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Mary E. Hazzard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. George B. Hess as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Dr. John C. Hortenstine as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 February 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Alan D. Howard as Acting Assistant Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Ronald O. Hultgren as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. William A. Jesser as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. John J. Kane as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. James G. Kavanaugh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Verdel A. Kolve as Professor of English, effective 1 February 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Sim C. Liddon as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. D. Nelson Limber as Professor of Astronomy, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mrs. Patricia H. Menk as Lecturer in History, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Dr. Stanton P. Nolan as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Kurt O. Olsson as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Samuel I. Outcalt as Acting Assistant Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Lionel I. Rebhun as Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Gareth L. Schmeling as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 per cent for summer work, or a total salary of Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Dan O. Via, Jr., as Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Hans-Jurgen Weber as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Michael S. West as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Judith A. Whitbeck as Junior Instructor in History, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Terence J. Worthen as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

EDWARD R. STETTINIUS, JR. PROFESSORSHIP OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1968, there is hereby established a Chair in the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs to be known as the Edward R. Stettinius, Jr. Professorship of Government and Foreign Affairs.

ELECTION OF MR. INIS L. CLAUDE, JR., AS EDWARD R. STETTINIUS, JR. PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED By The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Inis L. Claude, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Edward R. Stettinius, Jr. Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1968.

JAMES HART PROFESSORSHIP OF GOVERNMENT
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED By The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1968, there is hereby established a Chair in the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs to be known as the James Hart Professorship of Government.

ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT J. HARRIS as JAMES HART PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Robert J. Harris be and he is hereby elected James Hart Professor of Government, effective 1 September 1968.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Josephine D. Arnold as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. J. Taylor Beard as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas G. Bender as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 April 1968.Mr. Roger H. Clark as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. A. Kent Clement as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Christopher Collins as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James A. D. Cox as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John E. Craig as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fredrick Davidson as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 June 1968.Mr. James W. England as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Guy Estes as Assistant Professor of Forestry, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Arthur G. Foster as Assistant Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 March 1968.Mr. Herbert O. Goller as Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Spencer Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas J. S. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Philip F. Herring as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Harold M. Hochman as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alan B. Howard as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ivan C. Johnson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James M. Lane as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. K. Edward Lay as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frederick R. Lehmeyer as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 1 February 1968.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James E. Mann, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Aaron W. Morrell as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fredrik A. Muller as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Patricia M. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 15 June 1968.Mr. John A. Oppelt as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David E. Powell as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Walter B. Ross as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Mario I. Sama as Assistant Professor of City Planning, School of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Willard A. Van Engel as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1968.Mr. Robert K. Wild as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Anthony Winner as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John V. Yanik as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. A. Wilbert Zelomek as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mrs. Donna H. Duckworth, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Morton Nirenberg, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of German, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1969, at a session salary of Mrs. Betty N. Norris, Assistant Professor, to Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Roger Orkin, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

PROMOTION OF DR. ERNEST E. MCCOY
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Dr. Ernest E. McCoy, as approved by the Board on 2 June 1967, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Ernest E. McCoy, Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1967.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Jacob C. Levenson, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, without pay, to accept the Harbison Award for research and writing.Mr. Aaron W. Morrell, Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, without pay, in order to recover from injuries sustained in an automobile accident.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, with half pay, to pursue research as a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Palo Alto, California.Mr. Lionel I. Rebhun, Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to complete research and teaching duties at Princeton University.Mr. Charles A. Vandersee, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to accept a Bruern Fellowship at the University of Leeds, England.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. James A. Arnold, from Acting Assistant Professor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1969.Mr. Lauren G. Leighton, from Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, to Assistant Professor of Russian, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1971.Mr. Joseph F. Thomas, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Martin C. Battestin, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lester A. Beaurline, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Davy L. Bernard, Assistant Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 February 1968.Miss Nellie B. Carwile, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 November 1967.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , for the period 1 January 1968 through 31 December 1968.Mr. Giuseppe A. Mirri, Assistant Professor of Italian, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ricardo N. Zapata, Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1967.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. David M. Bevington, Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of Chicago.Dr. Arthur K. Brown, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), effective 31 January 1968, to resume private practice.Mr. James B. Colvert, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of Georgia.Mr. Peter S. Landweber, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at Yale University.Miss Mary M. Maloney, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 15 July 1968, to accept a position in Hawaii.Dr. Jonathan O. Partain, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 8 January 1968, to enter private practice.Mr. Robert C. Regan, Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968, to accept an Associate Professorship at the University of Pennsylvania.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MR. MAURICE J. MEISNER
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced a change in the effective date of the resignation of Mr. Maurice J. Meisner, Associate Professor of History, from 30 June 1968 to 31 January 1968.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the President announced the following appointment: Lieutenant James H. Ryan as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective 1 July 1968.

The President also announced the following appointments: Mr. William W. Abbot as Acting Chairman, Department of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Adriaan Blaauw as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Assistant Dean of the University, for one year, effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap as Assistant Dean for Administration, Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Ralph Eisenberg as Assistant Director, Institute of Government, for four years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Henry Eyring as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Michael Fowler as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Dante Germino as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George B. Hess as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., as Assistant Dean for Continuing Education, for one year, effective 1 January 1968.Mr. William A. Jesser as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 February 1968.Mr. V. A. Kolve as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. D. Nelson Limber as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lionel I. Rebhun as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$91,210.26

Free service to Counties and Cities

161,432.12

\----------

Total

$252,642.38

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1535, 1536, 1539, 1540, 1542, 1543, 1550, 1551, 1554, 1555, and 1556, aggregating $252,642.38, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$91,210.26Free service to Counties and Cities161,432.12----------Total$252,642.38

ELECTIONS TO THE COUNCIL OF THE TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute for the terms noted: Mr. Warren W. Brandt for a term of three years, effective 1 September 1967; and Mr. A. E. Dick Howard for the period 1 September 1967 through 31 August 1969.

HELEN JONES-LLEWELLYN GRIFFITH HOXTON SCHOLARSHIP
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 17 February 1968, the name of the "Helen Grayson Jones Hoxton Scholarship" be and it is hereby changed to the "Helen Jones-Llewellyn Griffith Hoxton Scholarship."

BIENNIAL BUDGET
---------------

The President and the Comptroller reported on the current status in the General Assembly of the University's 1968-1970 budget request.

INCREASE IN TUITION CHARGES FOR OUT-OF-STATE LAW STUDENTS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charge for out-of-State students in the School of Law be and it is hereby increased in the amount of $100, from $995 to $1,095, effective 1 September 1970.

REPORT BY COMPTROLLER
---------------------

The Comptroller commented on his annual report for the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1967. Following the report there was a general discussion after which the report was referred to the Finance Committee for such further action as it might deem necessary.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MR. JESSE WAKEFIELD BEAMS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Jesse Wakefield Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, has been awarded the National Medal of Science in recognition of his outstanding scientific contributions and more particularly of his work in the development and use of the ultracentrifuge and the magnetic suspension as a major tool in biology, engineering, solid state physics, and in fundamental physics;WHEREAS in receiving this award Mr. Beams has brought honor not only to himself but to the University of Virginia of which he is an alumnus and where he has served as a member of the Faculty of the Department of Physics since 1928; andWHEREAS in his teaching and research Mr. Beams' leadership and dedication to his work has been an inspiration to his students and colleagues;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we congratulate Mr. Beams on the well-deserved award of the National Medal of Science and wish for him continued success in the important research efforts he now has underway.

EAST-WEST HIGHWAY
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS new information now indicates that the predicted east-west automobile and truck traffic of the Charlottesville area may be accommodated without construction of a new major arterial highway that would divide the academic, athletic, and residential areas of and near the University;WHEREAS the Rector and Visitors had previously been advised that there was no way for such traffic to be accommodated efficiently except through construction of such a highway by what is generally known as the Grady-Gordon plan, and therefore reluctantly acquiesced when the Board received the report of its Building and Grounds Committee on 9 December 1966;WHEREAS it now appears feasible for the City of Charlottesville to make major necessary street and traffic improvements to alleviate current east-west traffic problems while a re-study is made to determine alternatives that are less destructive to the University's and the community's interest than is the Grady-Gordon plan;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that(1) the appropriate city, county, and State authorities are requested by the Board of Visitors to re-study, on a large metropolitan scale, the possible need for new traffic routes through and around the City of Charlottesville and the University community;(2) this action by the Board replaces the action of the Board on 9 December 1966 in accepting that portion of the Building and Grounds Committee report that related to the Grady-Gordon plan; and(3) the Board of Visitors hereby expresses its continuing willingness to consider proposals affecting University property to provide modern and efficient traffic flow for the general benefit of the city and county.

CHANGE IN DATE OF APRIL MEETING AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the dates of the next Regular Meeting of the Board of Visitors at Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg be and they are hereby changed from 18-20 April 1968 to 18-19 April 1968.

PHOTOGRAPHS OF BOARD MEMBERS
----------------------------

The Rector announced that each member of the Board of Visitors should send photographs of themselves to Mr. William A. Hobbs, Director, Development and Public Affairs, Pavilion V, West Lawn, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903.

The photograph should be an unmounted black and white 8'' by 10'' head and shoulders only, with a full (front) face. The Rector further instructed the Secretary to place this request in the minutes of this meeting in order that all members might be reminded of his request.

DORMITORY RENTAL CHARGES
------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1968, in addition to the dormitory rental charge for the first year for entering undergraduate students, all of whom must reside in University dormitories, each entering student shall pay a deposit fee of $100 which shall be applied toward his dormitory rental if he resides in the dormitories during his second undergraduate year; provided, however, that (1) if the student chooses to live else-where than in the dormitories during his second year the deposit fee shall be forfeited and (2) if the student does not return to the University for his second undergraduate year, the deposit fee of $100 shall be refunded.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERCHANGE IN FEES
--------------------------------------------

Present Fees

Fees to be Effective for the Fiscal Year Ending 30 June 1968

General college fees

$ 580

$ 540

Student activity fee

27

27

Residential fee

285

325

Board

308

308

\-------

\-----------

Total - Session of nine months - Virginia students

$1,200

$1,200

Tuition - out-of-State students

650

650

\-------

\---------

Total - Session of Nine Months - Non-Virginia students

$1,850

$1,850

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia be and it is hereby authorized to reduce the Educational and General fees (general college fees) from $580 to $540, and to increase the Auxiliary Enterprises (residential fee) from $285 to $325, effective for the fiscal year ending 30 June 1968, as shown below: Present FeesFees to be Effective for the Fiscal Year Ending 30 June 1968General college fees$ 580$ 540Student activity fee2727Residential fee285325Board308308------------------Total - Session of nine months - Virginia students$1,200$1,200Tuition - out-of-State students650650----------------Total - Session of Nine Months - Non-Virginia students$1,850$1,850

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William B. Herlinger as Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Richard H. Peake as Professor of English, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Betty S. Wham as Instructor in English, for the period 1 February 1968 through 30 June 1968, at a session salary of

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William B. Herlinger as Chairman, Department of Modern Foreign Languages, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard H. Peake as Chairman, Department of English, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERS
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Marvin E. Pizer as Lecturer in Biology, one-third time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mrs. Marilyn B. Rarick as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of Mr. Richard M. Sparks, II, as Lecturer in Biology, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968, at a salary of

NEW DEGREE PROGRAMS AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that George Mason College of the University of Virginia shall offer degree programs for the Bachelor of Arts in French, Spanish, and Physics and for the Bachelor of Science in Biology and Elementary Education.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE EDUCATIONAL PLAN
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Educational Plan for George Mason College, dated January 1968, be and it is hereby approved.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTER
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Daniel F. Curtin, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective 1 February 1968.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard R. Gero as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one year, effective 1 January 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Lucerne G. Hoover as Lecturer in Accounting, for one year, effective 1 February 1968, at a session salary of Mr. William H. McFarlane as Lecturer in Philosophy, for the period 1 January 1968 through 30 September 1968, at a session salary of

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTER
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. John D. Murdaugh, Lecturer in Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 February 1968.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:15 p.m.

WC:jb
