---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1969'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 6 June 1969
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 6 June 1969 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, William M. Birdsong, Richard S. Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Joseph H. McConnell, Lewis M. Walker, Jr., C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Absent: Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Walkley E. Johnson, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., and William S. Potter. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters, and Vincent Shea was present during the consideration of the University and Hospital budgets.

The minutes of the meeting of 5 April, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF THE SECRETARY
-------------------------

The Rector announced that it was necessary to elect a successor to the Secretary, Mr. Weldon Cooper, who has submitted his resignation effective 15 June 1969. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4.41 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector stated further, it would be necessary to elect a successor for the unexpired portion of Mr. Cooper's term.

Upon the nomination of the President and with the approval of the Executive Committee which had considered the nomination at its meeting on 18 May 1969, the Board unanimously approved the adoption of the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Raymond C. Bice be and he is hereby elected Secretary of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, effective 16 June 1969.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1970. On motion of Mr. Barrett, seconded by Mr. Cross, the following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Frank W. Rogers, Chairman; Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lewis M. Walker, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1969-1970Finance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1969-1970. The committee assignments are as follows: Finance CommitteeWilliam S. Potter, ChairmanJoseph H. McConnellJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeLewis M. Walker, Jr., ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeWalkley E. Johnson, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonW. Wright HarrisonJoseph H. McConnellC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanC. Waller BarrettWilliam M. BirdsongW. Wright HarrisonMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Educational Policy CommitteeC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanC. Waller BarrettWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. Potter

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Lester S. Adelman as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. Suresh K. Agarwal as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Paul Barolsky as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles W. Beegle as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Lester F. Belter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Thomas C. Bithell as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Clinical Pathology, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Richard J. Bonnie as Assistant Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Mary Elizabeth L. Brundage as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 12 June 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Burtis G. Casler as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Richard S. Crampton as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 16 June 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Alastair Fowler as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Christopher Gale as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph E. Goldberg as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William B. Guilford as Lecturer, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Robert C. Haynes, Jr., as Professor of Pharmacology, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Gerald A. Heeger as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Stephen A. Hegedus as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Charles M. Heuchert as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Peter W. Holloway as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Waller H. Horsley as Visiting Professor of Law, for the period 1 March 1969 through 30 June 1969, at a salary of .Dr. David A. Horwitz as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 16 June 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Douglas P. Howard as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Laurence S. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert A. Johnson as Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Henry H. Kerr, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Steven A. Kesselman as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Donald J. Kirwan as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period 1 February 1970 through 30 June 1972, at a session salary of .Mr. William M. Kloss as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Thomas L. Kriete, III, as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Joseph Larner as Professor of Pharmacology, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. James B. Lau as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Joel Lazar as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Louis Lusky as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of .Mr. James H. Maddox, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Gerald L. Mandell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 16 June 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Michael L. McCartney as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. John A. McChesney as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Miss Sue McCoy as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective 1 June 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Robert E. McLaughlin as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Michael B. McMahon as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mrs. Jeanne C. Miller as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 8 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Willys M. Monroe as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Raymond A. Moody, Jr., as Instructor in Philosophy, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Jerry R. Moore as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Dr. Forrest W. Pitts as Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr., as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Larry G. Richards as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Frederick S. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Gilbert W. Roy as Acting Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Rafael Rubio as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. John Ruvalds as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Dr. Joel P. Schrank as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Gertrude E. Schroeder as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Jaideep Singh as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Earl P. Smith as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Ragnar Smith-Meyer as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Lewis E. Snyder as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert S. Stepleman as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for two years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Harold R. Strang as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Charles D. Teates as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. John R. Thomas as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Charles R. Tolbert as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Dorothy A. Twohig as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Carlos Villar-Palasi as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Gaylord S. Williams as Instructor in Surgery, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. Muhammed S. Yusuf as Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of

ELECTION OF DAVID A. SHANNON
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee on 18 May 1969 electing Mr. David A. Shannon as Professor of History, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of be and it is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.

HOWARD W. SMITH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the Howard W. Smith Professorship of Law.

ELECTION OF DR. EDWARD W. HOOK AS HENRY B. MULHOLLAND PROFESSOR OF INTERNAL MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Edward W. Hook be and he is hereby elected Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of

ELECTION OF MR. LOUIS T. RADER AS ALICE M. AND GUY A. WILSON PROFESSOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Louis T. Rader be and he is hereby elected Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering and Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and a supplement of or a total salary of .

ELECTION OF DR. THEODORE E. KEATS AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF RADIOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Theodore E. Keats be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Radiology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 5 APRIL 1969
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. John K. Whitaker, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be changed to read as follows:Mr. John K. Whitaker as Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Nuzhet O. Atuk as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Johnson T. Carpenter as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective, 1 July 1969.Dr. Paul M. Dee as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Milton H. Donaldson as Assistant Professor of Surgery and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. John T. Dunn as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Miss JoAnn Hayes as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 November 1969.Mr. Ching-Hsien Huang as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Alpheus T. Mason as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Michael W. Moohr as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. William I. Neikirk as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 15 September 1969.Dr. Kolar N. Seshanarayana as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for two months, effective 1 November 1969.Mr. Neville F. Smythe as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David Trutt as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Richard A. Wetzel as Assistant Professor of Radiology (Nuclear Medicine) and of Internal Medicine (Nuclear Medicine), for three years, effective 1 August 1969.Dr. Bobby T. Wood as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John J. Yiannias as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one year, effective 1 February 1970.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 14 DECEMBER 1968
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. James S. Howland as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, as approved by the Board on 14 December 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mr. James S. Howland as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Manuchehr S. Alavi, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 September 1969 through 31 January 1970, at an annual salary of .Dr. Carlos R. Ayers, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Jerry W. Bains, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery (Division of Plastic Surgery), effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. James H. Bash, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Rolland A. Bowers, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Clive Bradbeer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. William F. Burnett, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. James L. Camp, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Vittorio Celli, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Cosmo A. DeFazio, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert T. Denomme, Associate Professor, to Professor of French, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Brian R. Duling, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Miss Frances Farmer, Associate Professor and Law Librarian, to Professor and Law Librarian, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Clifford H. Fox, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and of Pathology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. George R. Hanna, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Willard W. Harrison, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Charles E. Hess, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. John H. Hollingsworth, from Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Joseph F. Kett, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. David B. Lawall, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of the History of Art, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Allan M. Lefer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Regina C. McCormack, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Orthopedics, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Robert E. Merrill, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. William J. Munsie, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Edward G. Necco, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William H. Seawell, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Frank M. Shepard, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Urology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Harold N. Ward, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas C. Westfall, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Miss Eleanore C. Westhead, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. David K. Wiecking, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Nicholas Cabrera, Commonwealth Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, without pay,, to continue teaching and research, Instituto Politecnico Nacional and Universidad Autonoma Nacional, Mexico City.Mr. Joseph F. Kett, Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to pursue research.Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to serve as Visiting Lecturer at the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, University of Copenhagen.Mr. Klaus O. Ziock, Associate Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to carry out research in nuclear physics at CERN, Switzerland.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. MICHAEL L. MEZEY
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Michael L. Mezey, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. EDWARD A. KOLODZIEJ
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Dr. Sven O. E. Ebbesson, from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, to Associate Professor of Neurosurgery and of Anatomy (Neuroanatomy), effective 1 July 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Robert M. Berne, Charles Slaughter Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Robert T. Canevari, Lecturer in Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Lillie O. Chang, Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiobiology and Biophysics), at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Frank E. Flora, Associate Professor of Education, School of General Studies, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, and a supplement of or a total salary of effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Shiv S. Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1969.Dr. William H. Muller, Jr., Stephen Watts Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Leslie E. Rudolf, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edward E. Younger, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, effective 30 June 1969. Mr. Beams has been a member of the faculty since 1928.Dr. Andrew D. Hart as Director, Department of Student Health, effective 30 June 1969 to devote full time as Professor of Internal Medicine. Dr. Hart has been Director of the Department since 15 September 1938.Mr. James S. Miller, Jr., Professor of Electrical Engineering, who retires in June 1969 and has been on the staff of the University since 1920.Mr. L. Gaston Moffatt, Professor of Romance Philology, who retires in June 1969 and has been on the staff of the University since 1940.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, who retires in June 1969 and has been on the staff of the University since 1928.Mr. James S. Miller, Jr., Professor of Electrical Engineering, who retires in June 1969 and has been on the staff of the University since 1920.Mr. L. Gaston Moffatt, Professor of Romance Philology, who retires, in June 1969 and has been on the staff of the University since 1940.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs. Josephine D. Arnold, Acting Assistant Professor of French, effective 1 September 1969, to accept a position at Mary Baldwin College. Mrs. Arnold will continue to lecture, part-time, in the School of Education.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective 30 June 1969, to devote full time as Professor of English.Mr. Herbert M. Burks, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Michigan State College.Dr. Richard E. Clark, Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Member, Center for Advanced Studies, effective 9 April 1969, to continue in clinical aspects of thoracic-cardiovascular surgery.Mr. Leonard T. Curtis, Associate Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Georgia State University.Mr. James W. England, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 31 August 1969, to accept a position at Swarthmore College.Mr. Arthur G. Foster, Assistant Professor of City Planning, effective 30 June 1969, for personal reasons.Mr. William O. Freithaler, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 31 August 1969, to accept a position at Texas Technological University.Mr. Donald K. Fry, Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the State University of New York, Stony Brook.Mr. Billy J. Gilpin, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 31 August 1969, to accept a position at Old Dominion College.Miss Jayne L. Gosnell, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 8 July 1969, because she is moving from the area.Mr. Chaitan P. Gupta, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1969, to accept a position at the University of Chicago.Mr. Mu Shik Jhon, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1969, to return to Korea.Dr. Charles H. Lodowski, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective 31 May 1969, to enter private practice in Pennsylvania.Mr. Helmut F. Pfanner, Assistant Professor of German, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of New Hampshire.Dr. Melville P. Roberts, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, effective 30 June 1969, to enter private practice and to accept a clinical appointment at the Yale University School of Medicine.Mr. Larry L. Sale, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of North Carolina.Mr. Mario I. Sama, Assistant Professor of City Planning, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of Pennsylvania.Mr. Edward F. Storm, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Syracuse University.Mr. John K. Walsh, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of California, Berkeley.Mr. William Watson, Professor of Sociology, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at the University of Oklahoma.Mr. Langley H. Wood, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective 1 September 1969, to accept a position at the University of New Hampshire.Mr. Edward E. Younger, Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, effective 31 August 1969, to devote full time as Professor of History.Mrs. Merete M. Zimmermann, Visiting Professor of City Planning, effective 31 March 1969, because of illness.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. James L. Camp, III, as Director, Department of Student Health, for five years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Frank E. Flora as Associate Dean, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William B. Guilford as Assistant Registrar, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Edward W. Hook as Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert A. Johnson as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James E. Kinard as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. Joseph Larner as Chairman, Department of Pharmacology, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Peter W. Low as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John N. Moore as Director, Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett as University Registrar, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. A. J. G. Priest as Scholar-in-Residence, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John Ruvalds as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. David A. Shannon as Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel as Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, for two months, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Lewis E. Snyder as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl as Associate Dean, School of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Assistant Dean and Director of Admissions, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead as Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for the period 1 September 1969 through 30 June 1974.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 5 APRIL 1969
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced the following change in the appointment of Mr. Leland B. Yeager, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969 to read as follows: Mr. Leland B. Yeager as Chairman, Department of Economics, for the period 4 March 1969 through 30 June 1970.

CHANGE OF TITLE IN APPOINTMENT
------------------------------

The President announced the following change of title in the appointment of Mr. Ralph Eisenberg to read as follows: Mr. Ralph Eisenberg, Assistant Director, to Associate Director, Institute of Government, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MR. WELDON COOPER
-----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been privileged to have had the splendid service of Weldon Cooper as its Secretary since 1958; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Cooper has indicated his desire to resign as Secretary in order to return to full-time endeavors as Director of the Institute of Government and as a member of the faculty of the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, and the Board of Visitors wishes to take this occasion to express its thanks for his long and devoted efforts on behalf of the Board and the University;

NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Weldon Cooper as Secretary of the Board of Visitors is accepted effective 15 June 1969; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors hereby expresses its deep appreciation to Mr. Cooper for his faithful and excellent service to the University of Virginia as Secretary to the Board since 1958.

THE LEGAL ADVISER
-----------------

The Rector reported that Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. has agreed to continue as Legal Adviser for an additional year to 30 June 1970 under the same terms and conditions as those in effect for the year ending on 30 June 1969.

REPORT ON THE SESQUICENTENNIAL PROGRAM
--------------------------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of the Sesquicentennial Program.

APPROVAL OF THE 1969-1970 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1969-1970 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1969-1970 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1969-1970 University Hospital Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Medical Committee be and it is hereby approved.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing the Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on 8 December 1962.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President reported on the current status of admissions to the University for the academic year 1969-1970.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported on the 1968-69 salary scales for the members of the Association for American Universities, a copy of which has been sent to each member of the Board.

REPORT ON VARC
--------------

The President reported on the Governor's ruling on master's programs to be offered through the Virginia Associated Research Center.

REPEAL OF SPECIAL FEE FOR WOMEN STUDENTS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the special fee of $3.00 assessed against all women students to support the Women Students' Association be rescinded, effective 1 September 1969.

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL RATES
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1969, the charges for all rooms at the University Hospital be and they are hereby increased in the amount of $5.00.

INCREASE IN COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------------------

Current Comprehensive Fee

Comprehensive Fee to Become Effective on 1 September 1969

Field House and Gymnasium Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue - University Hall, starting in 1965-66)

$ 15.00

$ 15.00

Library Building Fee

7.00

7.00

Athletics

20.00

20.00

Student Health

35.00

40.00

University Union

14.00

14.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

4.00

For Faculty TIAA

25.00

35.00

Student Activities Fee

7.00

7.00

\-------

\-------

$127.00

$142.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the increases in the comprehensive fee, as shown in detail below, be and they are hereby approved: Current Comprehensive FeeComprehensive Fee to Become Effective on 1 September 1969Field House and Gymnasium Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue - University Hall, starting in 1965-66)$ 15.00$ 15.00Library Building Fee7.007.00Athletics20.0020.00Student Health35.0040.00University Union14.0014.00Class Affiliation4.004.00For Faculty TIAA25.0035.00Student Activities Fee7.007.00--------------$127.00$142.00

REPORT ON HEW REVIEW
--------------------

The President reported on the review by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare of certain policies of the University of Virginia.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc

$103,515.73

Free service to Counties and Cities

354,348.40

\----------

Total

$457,864.13

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1681, 1682, 1685, 1686, 1688, 1689, 1708, 1709, 1712, 1713, 1720, 1721, 1724, and 1725, aggregating $457,864.13, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc$103,515.73Free service to Counties and Cities354,348.40----------Total$457,864.13

REPORT ON THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN
--------------------------------

The President presented an interim report on the study relating to the admission of women as directed by the Board at its meeting on 15 February 1969.

LEGAL ACTION INVOLVING ADMISSION OF WOMEN
-----------------------------------------

The President reported that on 29 May 1969 Civil Action No. CA-220-69-R was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division, by Mrs. Jo Anne Kirstein and three other women against The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the Governor, and others and served on the Secretary of the Board on June 3, 1969. The action, inter alia, maintains that the constitutional rights of the plaintiffs have been denied because the University has precluded their admission to the College of Arts and Sciences. The Attorney General will represent the defendants. Since local counsel will be necessary for the University, Senator James H. Michael, Jr. of Charlottesville has been recommended by the Legal Adviser of the University to the Executive Committee, which has approved the recommendation.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Legal Adviser of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to arrange with Senator James H. Michael, Jr., Charlottesville, to represent the University, as Local Counsel, in the case of Mrs. Jo Anne Kirstein et al v. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia et al, Civil Action No. CA-220-69-R, now pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District.

COMPENSATION FOR INTERNAL AUDITORS
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Finance Committee along with the Rector and President be and they are hereby requested to present to the Governor the absolute necessity of more adequate compensation for the position of internal auditor and other financial positions in the several financial offices of the University.

TUITION INCREASE FOR THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES
--------------------------------------------------

Present Tuition Charge Per Semester Hour

Proposed Tuition Charge Per Semester Hour

Undergraduate courses

$16.00 per semester hour

$17.00 per semester hour

Graduate courses

$18.00 per semester hour

$20.00 per semester hour

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition increase in the School of General Studies as set forth below be and it is hereby approved, effective 1 September 1969: Present Tuition Charge Per Semester HourProposed Tuition Charge Per Semester HourUndergraduate courses$16.00 per semester hour$17.00 per semester hourGraduate courses$18.00 per semester hour$20.00 per semester hour

EAST-WEST HIGHWAY
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS on 17 February 1968 the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia adopted a resolution, a significant portion of which stated that "the appropriate city, county, and State authorities are requested by the Board of Visitors to re-study, on a large metropolitan scale, the possible need for new traffic routes through and around the City of Charlottesville and the University Community";WHEREAS the Virginia Department of Highways on 5 and 28 March 1969 submitted to the University alternate routes for an East-West traffic facility which did not indicate a re-study of the results of a need for such a facility on a broad metropolitan scale;WHEREAS a thorough analysis of the alternate plans by the University indicated they would have highly injurious consequences to University property and the University Community and seemed to have been formulated without cognizance of recent developments in other significant areas of traffic planning in the area; andWHEREAS the effects of the completion of Interstate 64 on the current traffic patterns remain to be determined; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors is convinced from a study of all pertinent information that a Grady-Gordon, East-West facility as proposed is not in the best interests of the community and is detrimental to the University, and should be deleted from the long-range plans for highway development in the City of Charlottesville;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that (1) the alternate plans for an East-West traffic facility, known as Grady-Gordon, are unacceptable to the University, (2) the concept of such a facility should be deleted from the traffic plans of the City of Charlottesville, and (3) the Board of Visitors reiterates its willingness to consider alternate proposals to provide a modern and efficient traffic flow for the general benefit of the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County as they may affect University property.

LETTER FROM MR. LAWRENCE CRANBERG
---------------------------------

The President presented correspondence of Professor Lawrence Cranberg dated 21 May 1969 which Professor Cranberg had requested that the President transmit to the Board. The Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee reported on the Committee's review of the matters raised by Professor Cranberg. It was noted that an academic inquiry is now underway with respect to a portion of the matters raised by Professor Cranberg.

The Rector directed the Secretary to write Professor Cranberg that his correspondence has been received by the Board and is presently under advisement.

THE CARLSON BEQUEST
-------------------

The Board considered the recommendation of the Medical Committee at its meeting on 5 June 1969 that the Carlson Bequest be renounced. After a lengthy discussion, the Board resolved to leave the matter, under authority previously given to the President to accept gifts, to the discretion of the President subject to the development of suitable plans for the administration of the bequest and subject further to the approval of the Medical Committee.

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. John M. Albertine as Instructor in Economics and Political Science, part-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Juanita H. Clement as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Frances Linda de Florio as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Janet M. Hollack as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Mary Elizabeth James as Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. John L. Lamph as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Bruce David MacEwen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Leslie Edwin Pitts as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William T. Ross as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward F. Shaughnessy, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Mary Jane Sotzing as Assistant Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Elizabeth Winston as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Richard C. Turner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 5 APRIL 1969
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Miss Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, one-half time, for one year, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be changed to read as follows:Miss Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Glen R. Thomas, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of American Studies, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Michael L. Bass, Instructor in Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. L. Clyde Carter, Jr., Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Sidney H. Mitchell, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Peter V. Snyder, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Miss Mary Ellen Stephenson, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, at a session salary of $ , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. George M. Van Sant, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.

ELECTIONS OF MR. WILLIAM A. CASTLE AND MR. E. BOYD GRAVES AS PROFESSORS EMERITI
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby elected Professors Emeriti:Mr. William A. Castle, Professor of Biology, who retires in June 1969, after having served on the faculty of the College for twenty-eight years.Mr. E. Boyd Graves, Professor of Philosophy, who retires in June 1969, after having served on the faculty of the College for thirty-two years.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Joel H. Bernstein, Assistant Professor of Art, effective 31 August 1969, to accept an appointment at another institution.Mr. Grover Preston Burns, Associate Professor of Physics and Chairman of the Department of Physics, effective 30 June 1969, to pursue another field of endeavor.Mr. Roger L. Kenvin, Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position as Professor and Chairman of the new Cooperative Department of Speech and Drama at the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College in Indiana.Miss Cynthia M. Mavrides, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1969, to terminate her stay in the United States.Mr. James R. Nazzaro, Professor of Psychology and Chairman of the Department of Psychology, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at another institution.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Bulent I. Atalay as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

ANNUAL BUDGET FOR 1969-1970
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1969-1970 Mary Washington College budget, as recommended by the President and Chancellor and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Paul E. Bayes as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Ralph J. Teutsch as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward L. Henson, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. DONALD H. ASKINS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Donald H. Askins, Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, with half-pay, to complete his dissertation for the Ph.D. at the University of Virginia, as approved by the Board on 5 April 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Richard J. McKay, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1969, to accept the position of Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Stroughton, Massachusetts.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOAN APPLICATION
--------------------------------------

(1) The President reported that the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development has approved a $455,000 loan application dated 30 April 1968 for the construction of Project No. CH-VA-55 (D), a dormitory for women at Clinch Valley College. The loan will be financed through the sale of revenue bonds payable solely from and secured by a first lien on and pledge of the net revenues derived from the operation of the dormitory. HUD has submitted a loan agreement to the University for approval and execution pursuant to the following resolution which is hereby unanimously adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public educational institution, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (herein called the "Borrower"), has heretofore submitted an application to the United States of America, Department of Housing and Urban Development (herein called the "Government"), for a loan under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended, for the purposes designated in the said application; andWHEREAS, the Government has approved the said application subject to certain conditions and has submitted to the Borrower a certain Loan Agreement dated as of 1 May 1969, (herein called the "Loan Agreement"), for approval and execution by the Borrower, which said Loan Agreement is satisfactory,NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE Board of Visitors of the Borrower that the said Loan Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby approved. The Comptroller is hereby authorized and directed to execute the said Loan Agreement in the name and on behalf of the Borrower, in as many counterparts as may be necessary, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to affix or impress the official seal of the Borrower thereon and to attest the same. The proper officer is directed to forward the said executed counterparts of the said Loan Agreement to the Government, together with such other documents evidencing the approval and authorization to execute the same as may be required by the Government.

(2) The President reported that bids have been received for the construction of Project No. CH-VA-55 (D), the aforementioned dormitory for women at Clinch Valley College. In addition to the aforementioned $455,000 loan from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, it is estimated that a loan up to $22,500 may be necessary to meet costs of the project.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (herein called the "University") in connection with the construction of dormitory Project No. CH-VA-55 (D) for women at Clinch Valley College, over and above the $455,000 United States Department of Housing and Urban Development loan, the University is hereby authorized, through either its President or Comptroller, to borrow an additional amount up to $22,500, on such terms as may be negotiated, including, without limitation, by an unsecured obligation of the University, or by an obligation issued pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia;RESOLVED FURTHER that in connection with such loan the University hereby authorizes the execution and delivery of an obligation in such amount and upon such terms as may be negotiated, approval of any such obligation executed by the University's officers being conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof;RESOLVED FURTHER that all instruments whether or not specifically referred to above which are, in the opinion of the University's Special Counsel, necessary or proper in connection with such loan, are hereby authorized in such form as the officers executing each instrument shall approve, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by their execution thereof, provided, however, that all instruments to be executed in connection with such loan, whether or not specifically mentioned above, shall, prior to their execution, be approved by the University's Special Counsel.

(3) The President reported further that a housing loan application dated 31 March 1969 has been submitted to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for a loan for the construction of an addition to the aforementioned dormitory for women at Clinch Valley College. The following resolution ratifying execution of the College Housing Loan Application for the dormitory addition is hereby unanimously adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public educational institution of higher learning, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, (herein called the "University"), has submitted an application dated 31 March 1969 to the United States of America, acting by and through the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, (herein called "HUD"), for a loan for the construction of a dormitory addition at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, Wise, Virginia pursuant to Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended.RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the College Housing Loan Application dated 31 March 1969 executed in the name and on behalf of the University, by Vincent Shea, Comptroller, together with any subsequent amendments thereto, submitted to HUD for loan assistant under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended, for construction of a dormitory addition at Clinch Valley College, Wise, Virginia, be and it is hereby is ratified and approved.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Amanda M. Burt as Lecturer in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Frederick J. Dorey as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael G. Emsley as Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marie T. Font as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. John W. Godbold as Assistant Professor of Government, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert A. Gray as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert T. Hawkes, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Linnea D. Imler as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. George L. Marthinuss, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William W. McAdams as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Zoltan Papp as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at George Mason College:Mr. George E. Andrykovitch as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ted R. Bradley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Ruth A. Flint as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jay C. Shaffer as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Melissa S. Stanley as Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Mary K. Cabell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Mary K. Cabell, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, for maternity leave.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Michael G. Emsley as Chairman, Department of Biology, for five years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert A. Turner as Dean of Students, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE LOCAL LEGAL ADVISER
----------------------------------------

The President reported on the need for a local Legal Adviser for George Mason College in Fairfax. He noted that the Chancellor has proposed the name of A. Hugo Blankingship, Jr., a member of the firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, Blankingship and Stump of Fairfax. Mr. Blankingship received a B.A. degree in 1952 and an LL.B. degree in 1957 from the University of Virginia. While a student, he was president of the Student Council and of the Law School and president of Omicrom Delta Kappa. Mr. Blankingship has practiced law in Fairfax since 1957 as well as serving as City Attorney and Counsel to the School Board of the City of Fairfax.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Legal Adviser of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to arrange with A. Hugo Blankingship, Jr., of the law firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz, Blankingship and Stump of Fairfax, to act as the local legal adviser for George Mason College on a retainer basis in such amount and upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the University Legal Adviser.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Allen R. Mickelsen as Assistant Professor of Economics, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

MADISON REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSAPPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Maurice S. Matthews, Jr., as Director, Madison Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSAPPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Dean E. Brundage as Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:45 p.m.

WC:jb
