---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1970'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 5 June 1970
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 5 June 1970 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Richard S. Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Donald E. Santarelli. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters, and Vincent Shea was present during the consideration of the University budget.

The minutes of the meeting of 11 April, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1971. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, and C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1970-1971Finance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1970-1971. The committee assignments are as follows: Finance CommitteeWilliam S. Potter, ChairmanW. Wright HarrisonLawrence Lewis, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., ChairmanC. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossBrownie E. Polly, Jr.Donald E. Santarelli Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeW. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonLawrence Lewis, Jr.C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonEdwin K. MatternBrownie E. Polly, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanEdwin K. MatternMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Donald E. SantarelliJ. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanC. Waller BarrettEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. Potter

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Ryan C. Amacher as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. George F. Bagby, Jr., as Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. James R. Beaty as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 August 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Terrence A. Boring as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Francis L. Brochu as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Miss Barbara Brodie as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Coleman D. Clarke, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $Mr. Warren L. Coats, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Patrick J. Conklin as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Michael J. Demetsky as Acting Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Andre P. Derdeyn as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Eleftherios Economou as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Milton T. Edgerton as Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Elizabeth Fivaz as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology) one-half time, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble, Jr., as Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael Garstang as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ernest A. E. Gellhorn as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William J. Gilmore as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971, at a salary of $.Mr. Russell M. Grieger, II, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. J. Owen Hendley as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John A. Hornik as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kenneth C. Jacobs as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John B. Jensen as Acting Assistant Professor of Portuguese, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kenneth O. Jensen as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 August 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Prabahan K. Kabir as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Samuel E. Kellams as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mary Alice Kraehe as Instructor, Alderman Library, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Sheung Tsing Lam as Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period 18 May 1970 through 30 June 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Margaretha W. Langman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), three-fourths time, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James S. Lubalin as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Susan O. Marcell as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective 22 June 1970, at an annual salary of $.Miss Lucila Ines Mena as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Daniel L. Moore as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James S. Payne as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. David L. Phillips as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Luigi Rossini as Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, for the period 1 September 1970 through 30 November 1970, at a salary of $.Dr. James C. Sams as Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Zahrl G. Schoeny as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lauren C. Stayton as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective 22 June 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Toshio Soda as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for the period 1 March 1971 through 31 August 1971, at a salary of $.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. James S. Trefil as Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Miss Phyllis Trible as Visiting Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Miss Amy L. Vanderlyn as Junior Instructor in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter W. Walker as Assistant Professor, Medical Library, for two years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. George J. Wallace as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William A. J. Watson as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Glenn A. Welsch as Carman G. Blough Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session of $.Mr. Welsh S. White as Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William C. White, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles L. Woods as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MISS ANNETTE GIBBS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee on 1 May 1970 electing Miss Annette Gibbs as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, be and it is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.

ELECTION OF DR. MILTON T. EDGERTON as ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF PLASTIC SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Milton T. Edgerton be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. CECIL Y. LANG as COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Cecil Y. Lang be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. LEIGH B. MIDDLEDITCH, JR., AS UNIVERSITY LECTURER IN LAW AND IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., be and he is hereby elected University Lecturer in Law and in Business Administration, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Antharvedi Anne as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Conrad M. Arensberg as Visiting Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971.Mr. Richard H. Austin as Assistant Professor and Director, Science Technology Information Center, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Gerald Cook as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971.Mr. Omer A. Gianniny as Assistant Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Herbert O. Goller as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Thomas J. S. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. W. Bedford Moore, III, as Assistant Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1970.Miss Mary Murchison as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 8 September 1970.Mr. James T. Murphy as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Clinton E. Parker as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Leon Radzinowicz as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971.Mr. Albert B. Reynolds as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1970.Miss Laura Chi Shen as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Robert A. Smoak as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. William S. Willis as Associate Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF DR. IVAR P. ENGE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Dr. Ivar P. Enge as Visiting Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 April 1970 through 30 September 1970, as approved by the Board on 11 April 1970, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Carolyn M. Brunner, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Robert T. Canevari, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administration, or a total salary of $.Mrs. Martha S. Carpenter, Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Diane Cothren, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Thomas S. Edwards, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. William A. Elwood, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mrs. Nell B. Fuller, Instructor, to Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Sharon L. Hostler, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Hollace H. Quarles, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Rajindar Singh, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Robert H. Trent, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles Vandersee, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Thomas R. White, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Sandra R. Yarbrough, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 11 APRIL 1970
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, as approved by the Board on 11 April 1970, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 11 APRIL 1970
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. Ertle Thompson, as approved by the Board on 11 April 1970, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Ertle Thompson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to serve as Special Economic Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division, U. S. Department of Justice.Mr. Michael Garstang, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to complete research projects in Carribean and to visit for one semester at the University of Cape Town, Union of South Africa.Mr. Wesley L. Harris, Sr., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to teach at Southern University.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Professor of Humanities, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to accept a position on the staff of the Federal Executive Institute.Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Associate Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, for personal reasons.Mr. Alan I. Ritter, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971, without pay, to carry out research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett, from Acting Assistant Professor of German, to Lecturer in German, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Seymour E. Goodman, from Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. N. Kenneth LaFleur, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Miss Marion E. Roberts, from Acting Assistant Professor of Art, to Assistant Professor of Art, for the period 1 May 1970 through 30 June 1971.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Charles F. Dunkl, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $13,500, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. James S. Howland, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $13,500, effective 1 September 1970.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Boyd has been a member of the faculty since 1946.Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Burger has been a member of the staff since 1929.Dr. Edwin W. Burton, Professor of Ophthalmology, effective 30 June 1970. Dr. Burton has been a member of the faculty since 1934.Mr. James S. Constantine, Associate Professor of Classics, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Constantine has been a member of the faculty since 1930.Dr. E. Cato Drash, Professor of Surgery, effective 30 June 1970. Dr. Drash has been a member of the faculty since 1931.Mr. James M. Lane, Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Lane has been a member of the faculty since 1959.Mr. Robert E. Lutz, Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Lutz has been a member of the faculty since 1928.Dr. C. Bruce Morton, Professor of Surgery, effective 30 June 1970. Dr. Morton has been a member of the faculty since 1936.Mr. W. Ralph Singleton, Samuel Miller Professor of Biology, effective 30 June 1970. Mr. Singleton has been a member of the faculty since 1955.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law.Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry.Dr. Edwin W. Burton, Professor of Ophthalmology.Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law.Dr. E. Cato Drash, Professor of Surgery.Mr. Robert E. Lutz, Professor of Chemistry.Dr. C. Bruce Morton, Professor of Surgery.Mr. W. Ralph Singleton, Samuel Miller Professor of Biology.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Jerry W. Bains, Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 30 June 1970, to enter private practice.Mr. Ronald L. Crawford, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Sociology, effective 16 July 1970, to accept a position in the School of Public Health, University of Michigan.Dr. Joseph Hanaway, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective 31 July 1970, to resume his medical career with a residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.Dr. Calvin M. Kunin, Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 31 July 1970, to accept an appointment as Chief of the Medical Service, Madison Veterans Administration Hospital, and Vice-Chairman, Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison.Mr. David D. Meisel, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at the State University of New York, Geneseo.Dr. William J. Munsie, Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at Mary Washington Hospital, Fredericksburg. Dr. Munsie will continue to serve as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology through 30 June 1972.Mr. William G. Rose, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 30 June 1970, for personal reasons.Mr. Gareth L. Schmeling, Assistant Professor of Classics, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at the University of Florida.Mr. Neville F. Smythe, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1970, to accept a position at Dartmouth College.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Lieutenant Wilson F. Harris, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective August 1970.Captain Neil T. Howell as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective August 1970.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Dean of Students, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Alan L. Caspar as Acting Director, Blandy Farm, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Eleftherios Economou as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. Milton T. Edgerton as Chairman, Department of Plastic Surgery, for five years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Director, Office of Financial Aid to Students, for three years, effective 1 June 1970.Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Counselor in Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Miss Annette Gibbs as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 July 1970.Mrs. Elizabeth J. Johnson as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Prabahan K. Kabir as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Russell M. Lafferty as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett as Registrar, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. A. J. G. Priest as Scholar-in-Residence, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Toshio Soda as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period 1 March 1971 through 31 August 1971.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Associate Dean of Students, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. James S. Trefil as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Charles A. Vandersee as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick as Associate Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. William S. Willis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Leland B. Yeager as Chairman, Department of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN PLASTIC SURGERY
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1970, there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Alumni Professorship in Plastic Surgery.

STATEMENT ON EVENTS IN MAY 1970
-------------------------------

With the Board of Visitors in Executive Session, and with only the Board (Mr. Santarelli was absent) and the Secretary present, a motion to adopt the following statement was made and seconded:

Throughout the recent dissent and disruption that occurred at the nation's major universities, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia and President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., have sought to --

1\. Keep the University open and operating and maintain its academic standards,

2\. Preserve the right of free speech and open discussion, and

3\. Avoid the violence experienced elsewhere.

President Shannon has devoted his untiring efforts to leading the University through this difficult period, and we have successfully met these three basic objectives, despite individual differences of opinion as to methods used.

The Board of Visitors intends to continue its studies looking toward adoption of policies to effectively control any future disruptive events.

After a brief discussion the motion passed by a vote of 11 to 4. Those voting in favor were visitors Barrett, Brown, Cross, J. H. Harrison, W. Harrison, Kendig, Mattern, McConnell, Parrish, Potter and Wheatley. Those voting as opposed to the motion were Visitors Kuykendall, Lewis, Polly, and Wilkinson.

STATEMENTS BY THE PRESIDENT
---------------------------

The President expressed his appreciation to the Board for the statement it has issued. He expects the Board to continue frank criticism. He thanked the Board for the support it has given him.

APPROVAL OF THE 1970-71 UNIVERSITY BUDGETS
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1970-1971 University Budgets as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing the Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on 8 December 1962.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President reported on the current status of admissions to the University for the academic year 1970-1971.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS FEE FOR STUDENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1970, a publications fee of $2.00 be and it is hereby established for all undergraduate students in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. The purpose of the fee is to support a technical journal.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE SEPARATE FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there will be in addition to tuition charges and the comprehensive fee, a Student Activities Fee in the amount of $12.00 to be paid by each full time student. This action is contingent upon the employment of a bookkeeper auditor responsible to the Comptroller of the University who will create an accounting system for handling funds collected from the fee.

REVISION OF STATEMENT ON ALLOCATION OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
-------------------------------------------------------------

The Student Affairs and Athletics Committee recommended to the full Board an amendment to the resolution on Allocation of Student Activities Fee originally adopted on 14 December 1968.

The amended resolution, which reads as follows, was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activities Committee shall continue to be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fund which is made up of student activities fees. With respect to allocations from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows: (1) the Committee shall review budgets submitted by The Cavalier Daily and approve allocations thereto; (2) the budgets of all other organizations will be reviewed by Student Council which will allocate funds from student activities fees to the organizations.All student organizations shall be eligible to receive funds from the student activities fee, except that no monies shall be given for religious or political activities\* \*To further clarify the meaning of the phrase "political activity: the Student Activities Committee has adopted the following resolution:"Political activities are, in general, those normally engaged in by political parties or special interest groups, such as electioneering, lobbying, and propagandizing. Electioneering shall include any activity connected with the electoral process in a partisan manner. Lobbying shall include any activity whose purpose is to influence governmental action or policy. Propagandizing shall include any activity whose purpose is to procure, or prevent, the acceptance or any social, economic or political theory as an operating principle of polity; propagandizing shall not be interpreted to include engaging in non-partisan analyses, study, or research or making those results available to the public." or for honoraria or social entertainment. The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations will be the then current total student activities fees less the amount approved by the Student Activities Committee for The Cavalier Daily. Each organization whose budget is reviewed by the Student Council will have a right of appeal to the Student Activities Committee. If no appeal is taken, a Student Council officer will draw a check on the Student Activities Fund for the amount specified by Council payable to the organization receiving the allocation. The Student Activities Committee shall examine on its own motion any budgets that may be approved by the Student Council for organizations deemed by the Committee to be within the exceptions noted above.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board hereby reserves to the President the unrestricted right to change either prospectively or retroactively the procedures for making allocations from the Student Activities Fund as he may from time to time deem appropriate.

To further clarify the meaning of the phrase "political activity: the Student Activities Committee has adopted the following resolution:

"Political activities are, in general, those normally engaged in by political parties or special interest groups, such as electioneering, lobbying, and propagandizing. Electioneering shall include any activity connected with the electoral process in a partisan manner. Lobbying shall include any activity whose purpose is to influence governmental action or policy. Propagandizing shall include any activity whose purpose is to procure, or prevent, the acceptance or any social, economic or political theory as an operating principle of polity; propagandizing shall not be interpreted to include engaging in non-partisan analyses, study, or research or making those results available to the public."

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$133,496.34

Free service to Counties and Cities

624,943.12

\-----------

Total

758,439.46

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1817, 1818, 1821, 1822, 1824, 1825, 1832, 1833, 1837, 1839, and 1840, aggregating $758,439.46, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$133,496.34Free service to Counties and Cities624,943.12-----------Total758,439.46

DEGREE PROGRAMS FOR THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degree programs listed below be and they are hereby approved:1. Master of Architecture2. Master of Landscape Architecture3. Bachelor of Science (Architecture)4. Bachelor of Science (Landscape Architecture)

DEGREE PROGRAMS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degree programs listed below be and they are hereby approved:1. M.A. in Environmental Sciences: Earth Sciences2. Ph.D. in Environmental Sciences: Earth Sciences

INTERDEPARTMENTAL MAJOR IN AFRO-AMERICAN STUDIES
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degree program listed below be and it is hereby approved:1. B.A. program with an interdepartmental major in Afro-American Studies

The degree programs will be submitted to the State Council of Higher Education for approval.

EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF OCCUPANCY FOR TWO DAWSON'S ROW
-----------------------------------------------------

The President explained that Mrs. Roberta Gwathmey, the present tenant of Two Dawson's Row, is ill. The Buildings and Grounds Committee recommended an extension of the occupancy period.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that permission be and it is hereby granted to Mrs. Roberta H. Gwathmey, to occupy the residence at Two Dawson's Row until 30 June 1971 provided that in no event shall this exception be used as a basis for waiving requirements of the resolution of 7 February 1970 to other members of the faculty residing in University Houses.

WIDENING OF ROUTE 50 ADJACENT TO BLANDY FARM
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the matter of widening State Route 50 adjacent to Blandy Farm in Clarke County is being determined by the State Highway Department and that, at this time, it is not deemed appropriate for the University to make any suggestions to the State Highway Department regarding the property proposed to be taken for widening this road.

THE LEGAL ADVISER
-----------------

The Rector reported that the Legal Adviser, Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., who was elected without term in June 1968, has agreed to continue to serve as Legal Adviser at the pleasure of the Board.

COMMITTEE TO RECOMMEND PROCEDURES TO ELIMINATE DISTURBANCES
-----------------------------------------------------------

A motion was made and seconded that the Rector appoint a Committee to consider and recommend procedures to curb and eliminate disturbances at the University such as the ones experienced on the Grounds in May 1970. The charge to the Committee was to be a broad one. The motion was approved.

CONSIDERATION OF SHORTENING THE MEETINGS
----------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he will discuss with the President the possibility of shortening meetings of the Board to one and a half days, and also recommending that the Board be provided with a larger, more adequate meeting room.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported on the 1969-1970 salary scales for the members of the Association for American Universities, a copy of which has been sent to each member of the Board.

REPORT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN THE 1970-1971 CALENDAR
----------------------------------------------------

The President reported that proposals had been received to change the calendar for 1970-1971 to provide time for pre-election activity. The Calendar and Scheduling Committee rejected this proposal.

APPLICATION AND REGISTRATION FEES AT THE NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application and registration fee for new students

$10.00

Registration fee for all students when registering for courses subsequent to admission

$ 5.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1970, the following fees be and they are hereby established at the Northern Virginia Regional Office: Application and registration fee for new students$10.00Registration fee for all students when registering for courses subsequent to admission$ 5.00

COORDINATION OF FUND RAISING
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia recognizes that financial support from private sources, alumni, students, and friends of the University has long provided "the margin of excellence" so essential to maintaining the institution's place in the front ranks of American universities,WHEREAS in an effort to increase support from all private sources the University has established an Office of Development to conduct a University-wide development program and to coordinate its activities with the efforts of all other organizations that seek to raise funds on behalf of the University,WHEREAS, the new Office of Development is to be responsible for serving areas of potential support not now being regularly solicited by the University's other dedicated fund-raising organizations, including such important sources as deferred gifts, large gifts by individuals and/or foundations and general foundation and corporate support,WHEREAS, the Office of Development is to be responsible for developing policies and procedures to insure (1) accurate and proper recording of all gifts whether made directly to the University or to one of the existing fund-raising agencies, (2) accurate and regular reporting of all such gifts to proper University authorities, and (3) prompt acknowledgment and expression of appreciation to all who give to the University or one of its fund-raising agencies.NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that to reach the University's full potential of private support, certain steps must be taken to bring about considerable involvement of alumni and other volunteers in fund-raising planning and decision-making, and to insure effective cooperation and coordination of all engaged in efforts to secure private funds for the University.To achieve these goals, it is further resolved by the Rector and Visitors that ---(1) The President of the University is requested to establish specific guidelines for all existing and future fund-raising efforts on behalf of the University.(2) The Board of Visitors hereby establishes the Development Council of the University of Virginia representing the Board, existing alumni groups, and other agencies raising funds for the University, and other key segments of the University. The purpose of the Development Council is to provide leadership for the University's total effort to secure private support and to determine policy for various fund-raising activities or projects within the authority granted the Council by the Board of Visitors and/or the President of the University.(3) New organizations or programs to solicit funds, grants, contracts, or property for the benefit of the University or any agency thereof shall be established only with the approval of the President of the University or his delegated representative.It is further resolved that the President of the University and the Vice-President for Public Affairs are requested to draft a Charter of Organization for the Development Council for consideration by the Board of Visitors at it next regular meeting.

AUTHORIZATION FOR ASSOCIATE COMPTROLLER TO EXECUTE INSTRUMENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: The President reported that by action of the Board on 12 December 1952 and 3 October 1969 resolutions were adopted authorizing certain University officers to execute instruments on behalf of the Rector and Visitors. It has been recommended that this authorization be extended to the Associate Comptroller.RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Associate Comptroller be and he hereby is authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia any instrument which may hereafter require the name of this corporation to be signed thereto, including specifically, without limitation, deeds, contracts, options, and other instruments and documents dealing with real estate and interests in real estate and any instruments executed pursuant to Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, granting easements for roads, streets, sewers, water lines, electric and other utility lines, or any other purpose, or any property now owned or hereafter acquired by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the Associate Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to sell, assign and transfer any and all stocks, bonds, evidences of interest or indebtedness, rights, and options, to acquire or to sell the same, and all other securities, corporate or otherwise, standing in the name of, or belonging to, this corporation in any capacity, andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the Associate Comptroller be and he is hereby fully authorized and empowered to give the assent of this corporation to such mergers, consolidations, agreements for deposit of stock, or for reorganization of any corporation in which The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia may have an interest; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the Secretary and Assistant Secretary be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instruments and to attest the same; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that such instruments when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete these transactions.

SALE OF LAND IN MARION COUNTY, FLORIDA
--------------------------------------

Upon recommendation of the Finance Committee, the Board approved the sale of two parcels of land lying in Marion County, Florida. The description of the two parcels of land is as follows:

(1) East 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Section 28, Township 16 South, Range 20 East.

(2) Lot 3, Block 3, Southeastern Tungland Co. Subdivision of Section 27, Township 16 South, Range 20 East according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book "D", Page 72, of the public records of Marion County, Florida.

RELEASE TO THE PRESS OF STATEMENT
---------------------------------

The Board approved the release to the press of the statement which appears on page 152 of these minutes.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS
----------------------

Upon recommendation of the President, the following architects were approved by the full Board:

For the Lambeth Field Residence Houses - Warren Hardwicke and Partners - Richmond, Virginia

For the Medical Center Residence Houses - Williams and Tazewell and Associates - Norfolk, Virginia

For a Site Planner - Lewis Clark Associates - Raleigh, N. C.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. David William Cain as Assistant Professor of Religion, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William B. Crawley, Jr. as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John P. Johnson as Instructor in Education, one-quarter time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Michael L. Mery as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Anne B. Capelle as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard J. Krickus as Lecturer in Political Science, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Miss Astrid Schneller as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Galo Rene Perez, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective 30 June 1970, without pay, to accept a position in Ecuador under the program sponsored by the University of New Mexico.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the faculty of Mary Washington College shall receive the salaries indicated:Mr. Clavio F. Ascari, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Rosalia C. Ascari, Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Zoltan A. Antony, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (German), to accept a position at Germanna Community College (Virginia), effective 30 June 1970.Mrs. Joyce Wheeler Gardner, Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), for personal reasons, effective 30 June 1970.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The Chancellor announced the following appointment: Mr. James H. Croushore, Professor of English and Dean of the College, effective 1 September 1970.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Miss Guenndolyn A. Beeler, Professor of Home Economics, who retires 30 June 1970, after having served on the faculty of the College for 19 years.Mrs. Eileen K. Dodd, Professor of Psychology, who retires 30 June 1970, after having served on the faculty of the College for 44 years.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden, Professor of English and Dean of the College, who retires 30 September 1970, after having served on the faculty of the College for 27 years.Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Professor, who retires 30 September 1970, after having served the College for 33 years as Financial Officer.

TRANSFER OF BALANCE IN CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE FUND
--------------------------------------------------------------

From 1946 through February 1964, Mary Washington College administered a group hospitalization insurance program and offered faculty and staff a payroll deduction plan for the purposes of paying monthly premiums. Over the life of the fund a small balance accumulated as the result of interim premium payments for new members of the program. Similarly a balance has been created as a result of terminations during the middle of a month for which a full month premium was paid. To the best of our knowledge all premiums have been paid and all refunds returned. There has been no activity in the fund since February 1964. At present a similar hospitalization program is offered to all employees of the Commonwealth by Blue Cross-Blue Shield.

In the past two financial audits a representative from the Office of the Auditor of Public Accounts has discussed the matter of the balance with us and feels that the fund can be dissolved with the proper action of the Board.

These comments serve as an introduction to the resolution which follows:

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to dissolve the Connecticut General Life Insurance Fund, which is maintained in the books of account at Mary Washington College at a cash balance of $199.48, and to transfer this balance to the Consolidated General Endowment Revenue Fund of Mary Washington College also maintained in the books of account at the College.

FACULTY SALARY SCALE
--------------------

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

PROFESSOR

1969-70

$12,600

$13,000

$13,400

$13,800

$14,200

$14,600

$15,00

1970-71

$13,100

$13,500

$13,900

$14,300

$14,700

$15,100

$15,50

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

1969-70

$10,600

$11,000

$11,400

$11,800

$12,200

$12,600

1970-71

$11,100

$11,500

$11,900

$12,300

$12,700

$13,100

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

1969-70

$ 8,900

$ 9,200

$ 9,500

$ 9,800

$10,100

1970-71

$ 9,300

$ 9,600

$ 9,900

$10,200

$10,500

INSTRUCTOR

1969-70

$ 7,700

$ 8,000

$ 8,300

$ 8,600

$ 8,900

1970-71

$ 8,000

$ 8,400

$ 8,700

$ 9,000

$ 9,300

ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR

1969-70

$ 6,700

$ 7,000

$ 7,300

$ 7,600

1970-71

$ 7,100

$ 7,400

$ 7,700

$ 8,000

As a result of the adjustment in student fees, it is proposed that the faculty salary scale be adjusted accordingly. The effect of this change is to omit the first step in each faculty rank and add an additional step at the top of the scale which is shown in the tabulation outlined below.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to operate under a faculty salary scale effective September 1970 as shown below: 1234567PROFESSOR1969-70$12,600$13,000$13,400$13,800$14,200$14,600$15,001970-71$13,100$13,500$13,900$14,300$14,700$15,100$15,50ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR1969-70$10,600$11,000$11,400$11,800$12,200$12,6001970-71$11,100$11,500$11,900$12,300$12,700$13,100ASSISTANT PROFESSOR1969-70$ 8,900$ 9,200$ 9,500$ 9,800$10,1001970-71$ 9,300$ 9,600$ 9,900$10,200$10,500INSTRUCTOR1969-70$ 7,700$ 8,000$ 8,300$ 8,600$ 8,9001970-71$ 8,000$ 8,400$ 8,700$ 9,000$ 9,300ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR1969-70$ 6,700$ 7,000$ 7,300$ 7,6001970-71$ 7,100$ 7,400$ 7,700$ 8,000

INCREASE IN STUDENT FEESPART-TIME STUDENT FEES
----------------------------------------------

Current Fees 1969-1970

Adjustment

Proposed Fees 1970-1971

General College Fees

$ 600

$60 + $25

$ 685

Student Activity Fee

27

\-

27

Residential Fee

398

(13)

385

Board

385

(12)

373

Total Virginia Student

1,410

60

1,470

Non-Resident Tuition

700

55

755

Total Non-Virginia Student

$ 2,110

115

$2,225

Current Fees 1969-1970

Adjustment

Proposed Fees 1970-1971

Per Semester

Virginia Students 1 to 3 Credit Hours

$ 70.00

$ 20.00

$ 90.00

Each Additional Credit Hour

23.00

2.00

25.00

Non-Virginia Students In Addition to Virginia Student Fees - Per Credit Hour

28.00

$ 2.00

$ 30.00

The 1970 General Assembly provided little improvement for operating funds for the College for the 1970-72 biennium. The funds appropriated for 1970-71 are actually less than the budgeted level of expenditures for the educational program for 1969-70. It was necessary, therefore, to provide additional funds by increasing student fees. While the Legislature was in session we had a request from the Appropriations Committee to provide them with an estimated adjustment in fees for the 1970-72 biennium, subject to approval of the Board of Visitors. The special fund revenues in the Appropriation Act were increased by the estimate which we furnished them. We proposed an increase of $50.00 for all students and $55.00 for Non-Virginia students. These funds were needed in order to provide a one step increase in salary for the faculty. An additional $10.00 increase in General College Fees was proposed in order to provide an additional $100.00 for all members of the faculty.

The adjustment in fees permits an increase of $500.00 for Professors and Associate Professors, and $400.00 for Assistant Instructors, Instructors, and Assistant Professors.

This matter was discussed with the Mary Washington Committee at the April meeting.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to adjust the student fees, effective September 1970, as shown below: Current Fees 1969-1970AdjustmentProposed Fees 1970-1971General College Fees$ 600$60 + $25$ 685Student Activity Fee27-27Residential Fee398(13)385Board385(12)373Total Virginia Student1,410601,470Non-Resident Tuition70055755Total Non-Virginia Student$ 2,110115$2,225 PART-TIME STUDENT FEESCurrent Fees 1969-1970AdjustmentProposed Fees 1970-1971Per SemesterVirginia Students 1 to 3 Credit Hours$ 70.00$ 20.00$ 90.00Each Additional Credit Hour23.002.0025.00Non-Virginia Students In Addition to Virginia Student Fees - Per Credit Hour28.00$ 2.00$ 30.00

ANNUAL BUDGET FOR 1970-1971
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1970-1971 Mary Washington College budget, as recommended by the Chancellor and President and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. George E. Culbertson as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Jimmy Noe Humphreys as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. James K. Mullins as Assistant Professor of Engineering, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Marvis C. Webb as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Miss Neva Y. Gibson, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Library Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William F. Maxwell, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Rosemary P. Mercure, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Library Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Roy Lee Wells, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Lawrence Edwards, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position elsewhere.Miss Judith A. Giolitto, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective 30 June 1970, to return to graduate school.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jimmy Noe Humphreys as Director of Financial Aid, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.

SPECIAL REPORT ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE GRADUATION
--------------------------------------------------

Visitor Polly reported that he attended Clinch Valley College's first four-year graduation on 31 May 1970. He noted that this was a significant day for education in Southwest Virginia, and that the Board can be justifiably proud of what has happened in Southwest Virginia.

The President said that the developments at Clinch Valley College were heartwarming. He noted that Dean David Shannon, Dean Irby Cauthen, Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Mr. Ray Hunt, Mr. Eugene Paige, and Mr. Ertle Thompson attended the ceremonies.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Leon E. Boothe as Associate Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 August 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Ernest Cassara as Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Esther M. Coleman as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Nehemiah Jordan as Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $Mr. Karl Kreilkamp as Associate Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John R. Linn as Assistant Professor of Health and Physical Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Ann Lodge as Associate Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Henry P. Meyer as Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Betty C. Ryburn as Lecturer in Sociology, one-half time, for the period 23 March 1970 through 30 June 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Michael P. Sampson as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Betty E. Schuchman as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ess B. Solomon as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Vernon G. Spence as Associate Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jay Stanley as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. James E. White as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Virginia L. Austin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Edwin W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Stanley L. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. W. Boyce Dominick as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Fredrick J. Dorey as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. John W. Godbold as Assistant Professor of Government, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Robert A. Gray as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Robert T. Hawkes, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Joseph M. Kanyan as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Angela J. Khoury as Assistant Professor of Government, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. William T. Kiley as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $10,800.Mr. Edward A. McDaniel as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Michael J. McDermott, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Patricia H. Murrell as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. John M. Smith as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Raymond H. Spuhler as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Nicholas J. Tavani as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Norman A. Yance as Acting Assistant Professor of Religion, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Amanda M. Burt, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Evelyn L. Pugh, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. James M. Snyder, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Stephen J. Brown as Associate Dean of the College, effective 30 June 1970, to devote full time to teaching.Mr. Robert C. Gibson, Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at Radford College.Mr. Joerg W. P. Mayer as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, effective 30 June 1970, to return to full time teaching.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Leon E. Boothe as Associate Dean of the College, for three years, effective 1 August 1970.Mr. Ernest Cassara as Chairman, Department of History, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Nehemiah Jordan as Chairman, Department of Behavorial Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. James M. Snyder as Chairman, Department of Education, for five years, effective 1 July 1970.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement of purpose for George Mason College be and it is hereby approved:George Mason College, as a branch of the University of Virginia, subscribes to the Statement of Institutional Purpose adopted by the University in 1964; thus, the College strives to be "a community of scholars having as its central purpose the enrichment of the human mind by stimulating and sustaining a spirit of free inquiry directed to an understanding of the universe and man's role within it." George Mason College is dedicated to the instruction of all qualified students, to the advancement of knowledge, and to the provision of public service especially to the communities of Northern Virginia. The major concern of the College is the student, for whom it tries to provide a free and stimulating academic atmosphere for intellectual growth. The College also provides experiences which are intended to arouse the student's intellectual curiosity, sharpen his awareness of the possibilities of life and deepen his understanding of himself and his world. It also affords him an opportunity to prepare for a responsible role in society. The College, well aware of the rapidity of change, seeks, by constant re-examination of its methods and goals, to provide the most meaningful education possible for its students.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSAPPOINTMENTS
----------------------------------------------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Frank E. Flora as Asssociate Dean, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

EASTERN SHORE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. William H. Browne as Assistant Professor of Government and History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Ronald L. Buchan as Assistant Professor of Library Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Carl T. Furlow as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Richard E. Jenkins, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mrs. Nellie D. Nock as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Joseph Perfetti as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. William R. Pogue as Associate Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Stanislaw Rola-Szustkewicz as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Jimmie L. Willis as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William R. Pogue as Director, Eastern Shore Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Maurice S. Matthews, Jr., as Director, Madison Field Office, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Dean E. Brundage as Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Patrick Henry College:Miss Dorsye E. Russell as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 April 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Clarence A. Anderson as Assistant Professor of for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. John E. Buck, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Milton A. Davis as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Delores D. Eanes as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Marie M. Garrett as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. William D. May as Assistant Professor and Librarian, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Jeanne R. Nostrandt as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Clyde E. Pitts as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Charles R. Revie as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Clarence A. Anderson as Business Manager, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Director of Student Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Director, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Charles R. Revie as Director of the Evening Program, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. John M. Dunnavant, Jr., as Director, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Director, Roanoke Regional Office, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey as Director, Southwestern Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

RCB:jb
