---
layout: minutesLayout
year: 1970
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
title: Board Minutes (March 9, 1970)
name: Board Minutes
location:
  '@type': Place
  name: University of Virginia Library
  address:
    '@type': PostalAddress
    addressLocality: Charlottesville
    addressRegion: Virginia
organizer:
  '@type': Organization
  name: University of Virginia, Board of Visitors
keywords: Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, meeting minutes
description: >-
  Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting held on March 9, 1970, including the
  election of the Rector and Secretary.
attendee:
  - '@type': Person
    name: C. Waller Barrett
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mrs. E. Parker Brown
  - '@type': Person
    name: Richard S. Cross
  - '@type': Person
    name: W. Wright Harrison
  - '@type': Person
    name: Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.
  - '@type': Person
    name: Lawrence Lewis, Jr.
  - '@type': Person
    name: Joseph H. McConnell
  - '@type': Person
    name: Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.
  - '@type': Person
    name: Brownie E. Polly, Jr.
  - '@type': Person
    name: William S. Potter
  - '@type': Person
    name: Donald E. Santarelli
  - '@type': Person
    name: C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.
  - '@type': Person
    name: J. Harvie Wilkinson, III
  - '@type': Person
    name: Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.
about:
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Election of the Rector
    description: Joseph H. McConnell elected as Rector for a four-year term.
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Election of Secretary
    description: Raymond C. Bice elected as Secretary for a four-year term.
  - '@type': Thing
    name: Election of Assistant Secretary
    description: >-
      Francis L. Berkeley, Jr. elected as Assistant Secretary for a four-year
      term.
---

<!-- altadded -->
<!-- llmmeta -->



<!-- llmformatted -->

# Board of Visitors minutes (1970) March 9, 1970

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 9, 1970

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 9 March 1970

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 9 March 1970 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Richard S. Cross, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Joseph H. McConnell, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: J. Hartwell Harrison, J. Sloan Kuykendall, and Edwin K. Mattern. Mr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. was present for a portion of the meeting.

## ELECTION OF THE RECTOR

In accordance with the procedures in Section 4.11 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors adopted on 26 February 1966, the Board elected Joseph H. McConnell Rector of the University of Virginia for a four-year term beginning 1 March 1970.

The Rector then announced that the Executive Committee will be elected at the meeting on 11 April 1970. Mr. Kuykendall and Dr. Kendig will serve as a nominating committee. The Rector will announce other committee appointments soon.

## ELECTION OF SECRETARY

In accordance with Section 4.41 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Raymond C. Bice Secretary to the Board of Visitors for a four-year term beginning on 1 March 1970.

## ELECTION OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY

In accordance with the procedures in Section 4.51 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Assistant Secretary to the Board of Visitors for a four-year term beginning 1 March 1970.

At this point the President joined the meeting. He warmly welcomed Messrs. Lawrence Lewis, Edwin Mattern, Brownie Polly, Donald Santarelli, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, to the Board, and congratulated Mr. McConnell upon his election as Rector.

A letter (attachment a) addressed to Acting Rector Potter from Mr. James Roebuck, President of Student Council, was read to the Board. The President advised the Board that the letter referred to a matter currently under study by the President's Staff and that it will be brought to the Board in due course.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 10:18 a.m.

RCB:jb

## Student Council UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA NEWCOMB HALL CHARLOTTESVILLE 22901 March 5, 1970

Mr. William S. Potter\
350 Delaware Trust Building\
Wilmington, Delaware 19801

Dear Mr. Potter:

At its meeting 3 March the Student Council adopted the following motion by unanimous vote:

The Student Council requests that at their next meeting the Board of Visitors redefine the term "politically oriented societies" as it is used in relation to organizations requesting funds from the Student Activities Fee. We suggest that the Board define "politically oriented" along the lines established by the Internal Revenue Service to apply to any organization which devotes the majority of its resources activities to involvement in electoral politics or in lobbying for specific legislation.

We hope that the Board will give primary consideration to the clarification of this important area.

JRR:rkh

cc: President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.\
Mr. D. Alan Williams
