---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1971'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 1, 1971
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:05 p.m. on October 1, 1971 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, and J. Sloan Kuykendall. Messrs. Vincent Shea, D. Alan Williams and Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. were present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of June 4, 1971, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Henry J. Abraham as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Marine B. Abrahamse as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Carter Allen as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at a salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. B. R. Ashby as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Pedro G. Beltran as Scholar-in-Residence, Graduate School of Business Administration, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Louis A. Benevento as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Barbara Z. Berk as Instructor in Internal Medicine and Student Health Staff Physician, one-half time, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. S. Michael Bernhard as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 16, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Robert E. Berry as Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine and of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Susan P. Campbell as Instructor in Education, for the period August 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total annual salary of .Mrs. Louise Coats as Instructor of English, half-time, for the period September 1, 1971, through January 31, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. Richard C. Collins as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Thomas W. deBek as Clinical Instructor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. James N. Demas as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Donna Z. Eden as Instructor of Nursing, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Flora Emerson as Instructor of English, one-half time, for the period September 1, 1971, through January 31, 1972, at a salary of Mr. Robert T. Frossard as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Donald E. Geis as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Denise H. Geolot as Instructor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Major Turner Eugene Grimsley as Associate Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective September 1972.Dr. George A. Hurt as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, one-tenth time, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Shinya Inoue as Visiting Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Robert G. Jones as Visiting Professor of Sociology, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Kathleen E. Kelleher as Junior Instructor, Medical Library, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Barbara A. Kelly as Instructor in Physical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Devendra M. Kochhar as Associate Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mrs. Miki Komoda as Lecturer in Japanese, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Kenneth L. Marcellus as Instructor in Marine Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Betty L. Martin as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Ronald H. McKnight as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas R. Morgan, USMC, as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Robert C. Morris as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Frederick E. Nolting, Jr., as Diplomat-in-Residence, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Lieutenant Daniel T. Oliver as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss L. Claire Parsons as Associate Professor of Nursing and Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Ed D. Perry as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective June 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Lynn A. Pollnow as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Mantripragada L. Ranga Rao as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Nelson G. Richards as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Barbara Dorothy Ripel as Instructor in Humanistic Sources, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Susie P. Roberts as Instructor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Ruth H. Rogers as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Alan Saleski as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Linda F. Shank as Instructor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. S. Fred Singer as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 15, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Timothy J. Smiley as Visiting Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. Herbert Stein as A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Andres Steinmetz as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Lowell Stroom as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for the period October 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of .Mrs. Patricia R. Sullivan as Instructor of French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Donald E. Sweet as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Samuel Joseph Thios as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John D. Trasco as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John Trinder as Assistant Professor of Psychology (Psychiatry), for the period October 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974, at a salary of .Mr. Richard J. Van Brunt as Assistant Professor of Physics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul Verniere as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Bardie C. Wolfe as Assistant Professor, Law Library, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Russell K. Yamazaki as Visiting Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .

ELECTION OF DR. E. MEREDITH ALRICH AS CLAUDE A. JESSUP PROFESSOR OF SURGERY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. E. Meredith Alrich be and he is hereby elected Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH C. ZIEMAN
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Joseph C. Zieman as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, as approved by the Board on April 3, 1971, be changed to three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. William S. Allerton as Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. William B. Bean as Visiting Professor of the History of Medicine, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972.Dr. Armistead P. Booker as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. John D. Briddell as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Robert S. Brown as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period August 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Dr. William H. Chapman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period July 1, 1971, through September 30, 1971.Mr. Allen R. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Psychology), for one year, effective August 1, 1971.Dr. George Cooper, Jr., as Professor of Radiology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Donna H. Duckworth as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Bernard Dunau as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. John R. Eagle as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher as Visiting Professor of Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Charles H. Gleason as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Eric J. Hahn as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. C. Donald Hammond as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. James G. Kavanaugh as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Diane M. Komp as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Burton J. Litman as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Alfon B. Mosca as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Harold L. Riley, III, as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Dr. Franz Schubert as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period June 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Rajindar Singh as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. David V. Strider as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Jonathan A. van Heerden as Clinical Instructor of Surgery, for one year, effective October 1, 1971.Dr. Melissa A. Warfield as Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William C. White as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. William S. Willis as Associate Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Edward C. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Charles A. Woodbury, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Education, for two months, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Charles A. Woodbury, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Sandra R. Yarbrough as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Haddon Christopher Alexander, III, from Clinical Instructor in Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-third time, for three years, effective July 1, 1971. Mr. Barnes also serves as Associate Provost for Research. He will receive an annual salary of .Dr. James R. Brunk, from Clinical Instructor in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Corinne H. Carr, Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Allen A. Futral, from Lecturer in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Thomas L. Gorsuch, from Lecturer in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Albert L. Huber, from Instructor in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Robert H. Jennings, from Clinical Instructor in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Charles H. Majors, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of w, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. Robert B. Ooghe, from Clinical Instructor in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, to Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Frank E. Taylor, from Clinical Instructor in Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Catherine H. Williamson, Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Henry J. Abraham, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, to complete an obligation with the academic Senate of the University of Pennsylvania.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to complete research on an engineering textbook.Mr. Rodney Needham, Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to resolve the question of the issuance of a permanent visa.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1971, through February 28, 1973, without pay, to complete his commitment as a Member of the President's Council of Economic Advisors.Mr. Richard J. Sundberg, Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept a special fellowship from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, Stanford University.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. JOHN GRAHAM
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. John Graham as Assistant Dean of the College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, as approved by the Board on April 3, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Tajammul H. Bhatti, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Neurosurgery, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. George W. Black, from Acting Assistant Professor of Drama, to Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John W. Boring, from Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Professor of Engineering Physics, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John D. Boyd, II, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Brent Bridgeman, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David G. Bromley, from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Oscar W. Broome, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Edgar K. Browning, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Louis L. Chinatti, from Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, to Assistant Professor of Italian, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Damon L. Diemente, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. James W. Earl, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Phillip Fisher, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Thomas J. Gates, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. William J. Hancock, from Lecturer in Internal Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.. Yukon Huang, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two years, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Lucila I. Mena, from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Darren Newtson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, to Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles L. Perdue, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel, from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. James A. White, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. A. Nelson Yarbrough, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Surgery, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE OF TITLE
-------------------------------

The President announced to the Board a change of title of Mr. Steve Sebo from Professor of Physical Education and Director of Athletics, to Professor of Physical Education and Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, effective July 1, 1971.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, OCTOBER 2, 1970
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the change of title of Mr. Walter F. Korte, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, as approved by the Board on October 2, 1970, be changed to three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Robert H. Kretsinger, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Manuel Lassaletta, Assistant Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William C. Saslaw, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Arthur I. Schulman, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Theodore R. F. Wright, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Colonel Robert C. Dart, Professor of Military Science, effective June 30, 1971. Colonel Dart has been a member of the staff since September 1967.Commander Angus Macaulay, Associate Professor of Naval Science, retired from Naval Service, effective July 1, 1971.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. William L. Boletta as Assistant Professor of German, effective September 1, 1971, for personal reasons.Mr. Lawrence Cranberg, Professor of Physics, effective June 30, 1971.Mr. Ralph Eisenberg as Associate Director, Institute of Government, effective August 31, 1971, to accept the position as Assistant Provost.Mr. Fredrik A. Muller, Assistant Professor of Materials Science, effective June 30, 1972, to accept employment elsewhere.Mr. John V. Yanik, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective September 30, 1971, to accept exceptional opportunity in a professional architectural office.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The President announced the following appointments: Captain Walter C. Blattmann as Chairman of the Department of Naval Science, for the 1971-1972 session.Mr. Robert F. Bryan as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Susan P. Campbell as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period August 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Ralph Eisenberg as Assistant Provost, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1976.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach as Associate Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Counselor-in-Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Shinya Inoue as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Barbara A. Kelly as Assistant to the Director of Intramurals, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles H. Majors as Assistant Dean of Admissions, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., as Assistant to the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John H. Moore as Assistant to the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. A. J. G. Priest as Scholar-in-Residence, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. L. Starling Reid as Chairman, Department of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Colonel James P. Robertson as Chairman of the Department of Air Science, for the 1971-1972 session.Mr. Paul Schatz as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. S. Fred Singer as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective August 15, 1971.Mr. Herbert Stein as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective when his active service as A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics begins.Colonel John E. Strever, Jr., as Chairman of the Department of Military Science, for the 1971-1972 session.Mr. William S. Willis as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. FRED A. DIEHL
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the appointment of Mr. Fred A. Diehl as Assistant Dean of the College, as approved by the Board on April 3, 1971, be changed from one year, to two years, effective September 1, 1971.

TIPTON R. SNAVELY PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Graduate School of Business Administration to be known as the Tipton R. Snavely Professorship in Business Administration.

WELCOMING OF MR. DAVID A. SHANNON
---------------------------------

The Rector, speaking on behalf of the Board, expressed confidence in Mr. David A. Shannon, who assumed the position of Vice-President and Provost on July 1, 1971, and expressed the pleasure of the Board with his appointment.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed. The President reported that the Medical Education Building is only partially occupied because there has been a delay in equipping the upper floors. He commented that progress is good in the development of working drawings for the School of Law Building. Buildings for the School of Education and the School of Nursing are under construction and on schedule.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS AND ENROLLMENT
-----------------------------------

The President distributed a report on admissions and enrollment. Noting that there has been only a modest increase in admissions, but a substantial increase in total enrollment, the President explained that the bulk of the enrollment increase resulted from the improved retention of students in the various programs, and from the readmission of students who have dropped out for military service and other reasons.

REPORT ON THE BUDGET HEARING
----------------------------

The President reported on the budget hearing held in Richmond on September 21, 1971. He expressed the view that the University's presentation was well received.

REPORT ON COMMONWEALTH CONFERENCE ON HIGHER EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------

The President reported on a joint meeting of the Boards of Visitors of Virginia's state institutions held in Richmond on September 1, 1971. Mr. Joseph H. McConnell and Governor Linwood Holton were the principal speakers at the conference. A publication on the proceedings at that meeting is expected in mid-October. Mr. Wright Harrison commended the Rector on the address he presented at the conference.

REPORT TO THE BOARD ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING APPROVAL OF THE BIENNIAL BUDGETS, THE ENGAGEMENT OF INVESTMENT COUNSEL, AND APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, under Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966, voted on August 13, 1971 to approve the 1972-74 Biennial Budget as approved by the Finance Committee for Mary Washington College, the University at Charlottesville, the Hospital Division, Clinch Valley College, George Mason College, the School of General Studies, and Public Service Bureaus.

The Executive Committee on August 13, 1971, approved the firm of John W. Bristol and Company, Inc., as Investment Counsel as recommended by the Finance Committee. The Committee also approved the University Motor Vehicle Regulations, authorizing the President to make such changes in these regulations as he may from time to time deem necessary.

In connection with the engagement of Investment Counsel, changes in certain custodial agreements were required.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that pursuant to terms of the contract with State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, now United Virginia Bank/State Planters Shares, to act as custodian of the University's endowment funds as set forth in the Board's minutes of December 13, 1946 and a similar agreement with the National Bank of Commerce of Norfolk, now Virginia National Bank, dated and referred to in the February 9, 1963 minutes of the Board, such contracts be and each of them hereby is terminated;RESOLVED FURTHER, that the Comptroller be and he hereby is authorized and directed to execute custodial agreements with the respective banks in such form as may be approved by the University's Special Counsel and to take such other action as may be necessary to effect such agreements.

NAMING OF THE TENNIS FACILITIES
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new tennis facilities near University Hall be and they are hereby named the Perry Foundation Courts; and be it further resolved that the new Tennis Courts in the Dell be and they are hereby named the Dell Perry Foundation Courts.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$198,623.33

Free service to Counties and Cities

386,044.36

\------------

Total

$584,667.69

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 2012, 2013, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 2027, 2028, 2031, 2032, 2034, 2035, 2042, 2043, 2046, 2047, 2049 and 2050, aggregating $584,667.69, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$198,623.33Free service to Counties and Cities386,044.36------------Total$584,667.69

REPORT ON THE GOVERNOR'S FREEZE ON THE PURCHASE OF COMPUTERS
------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that there is in effect a 60 day freeze on the purchase of computers ordered by the Governor. The freeze affects the planned purchase of a computer for administrative use (financial operations and registrar's use). The delay can be costly and it may have serious consequences unless an exception is granted.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

In his remarks regarding gifts and grants, the President praised the generosity of Mr. C. Waller Barrett for his continued gifts to the University.

REPORT ON THE PRIORITY OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF VICE-PRESIDENTS AND DEANS IN THE ABSENCE OF THE PRESIDENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that he has established a normal order of administrative authority and responsibility in the President's absence. The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following order of administrative authority and responsibility in the absence of the President be and it is hereby approved as promulgated by the President viz:1. Vice-President and Provost2. Vice-President for Business and Finance3. Vice-President for Student Affairs4. Vice-President for Public Affairs5. Vice-President for Medical Affairs6 Dean of the Summer Session (during the Summer Session only)7. The Deans in the normal order of precedence of the schools, thus: Faculty of Arts and Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, Medicine, Law, Engineering, Graduate Arts and Sciences, Education, Commerce, Architecture, Graduate Business and Nursing

REPORT ON THE BURKETT MILLER MATTER
-----------------------------------

The Rector reported that decisions relative to a proposed grant from Mr. Burkett Miller are expected to be announced at a meeting scheduled for October 11, 1971. The President thanked the Rector and the Governor for their efforts on behalf of the grant.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported that the 10 year Self-Study report will be presented to a visiting committee on December 9, 1971 and she requested the Mary Washington College Committee to be present.

Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported that his Committee is attempting to resolve the question of whether need can legitimately be a criterion in the awarding of the Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships. He reported also that the President's committee to nominate candidates for the position of Chancellor of George Mason College had met with the Educational Policy Committee, and that procedures leading to nominations are proceeding satisfactorily.

Dr. Edwin Kendig, Chairman of the Medical Committee, reported that his Committee has heard reports on a plan for prepaid health care for University Employees, that a masters degree program in nursing has been approved, and that a committee is at work to select a new Dean of Medicine.

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, reported that his Committee heard from the Director of Athletic Programs, Mr. Eugene Corrigan, and that Mr. Thomas Collier, President and Mr. Peter Gillespie, Vice-President of Student Council, had made constructive contributions to the Committee meeting. The Rector requested the Legal Adviser to prepare a legal opinion on the legality of procedures currently in use to support student publications at the University.

Mr. William S. Potter, reporting for both Buildings and Grounds and Finance Committees, advised that the Finance and Buildings and Grounds Committees had heard from Mr. Harold Young and Mr. A. J. G. Priest with respect to the sale of the Hobbs Gas Company, a part of the Moyston Estate. The Committees also authorized the construction of a building to be used by the National Radio Astronomy Observatory.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Kent W. Butzine as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Dennis G. DaLuiso as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Eric V. Eslinger as Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Kathleen A. Harty as Instructor in Health, Physical Education and Recreation (Dance), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald K. Hoeflin as Assistant Cataloguer with the academic rank of Instructor, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John C. Lambert as Assistant Professor of Statistics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Frederick C. Landis as Instructor in Classics (part-time), for the first semester of the 1971-72 session, effective August 15, 1971, at a semester salary of .Mr. Lloyd J. Mallan as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Sue Collins Tussey as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion of a member of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Jean Slater Edson, Associate Professor to Professor of Music, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Marshall E. Bowen, from Associate Professor of Geography and Geology, to Associate Professor of Geography, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. James B. Gouger, from Assistant Professor of Geography and Geology, to Assistant Professor of Geography, effective July 1, 1971.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated when permitted by Federal guidelines:Mr. Roy B. Weinstock, Associate Professor of Psychology and Chairman of the Department of Psychology, to receive a session salary of , effective when permitted by Federal guidelines.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Miss Martha Gene Darby, Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), effective July 23, 1971, because of illness in her family.Miss Mary Kaye Phifer, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective August 15, 1971, because of illness.Mrs. Laura V. Sumner, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Classics and Director of Summer Programs, resigned as Director of Summer Programs, effective with the closing of the 1971 Summer Session.Mrs. Mary Jane H. Taylor, Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, effective July 7, 1971, to accompany her husband who is leaving the area to attend graduate school.Mrs. Linda deFlorio Williams, Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages and Academic Adviser, effective August 15, 1971, to operate a college bookstore in the Washington, D.C.-Maryland area.Mr. Daniel H. Woodward, Librarian, Professor of English, and Secretary of the Faculty, effective July 1, 1972, to accept the position of Librarian at the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Galley in San Marino, California.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The Chancellor announced the division of the Department of Geography and Geology into two separate departments, the Department of Geography and the Department of Geology, effective July 1, 1971, and the appointments of: Mr. Samuel O. Bird, Professor of Geology and Director of the College Science Improvement Program at Mary Washington College, as Chairman of the Department of Geology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Samuel T. Emory, Jr., Professor of Geography and Chairman of the Department of Geography and Geology, as Chairman of the Department of Geography, for one year, effective July 1, 1971 (which will finish out his original three-year appointment as Chairman of the Department of Geography and Geology).

The following appointments were also announced: Mrs. Cornelia D. Oliver, Associate Professor of Art, as Academic Adviser in the Office of the Dean, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, with one-half time to be devoted to teaching and the other half to academic counseling.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Madeline M. Allen as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Zougul H. Chowdhury as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph B. Powers as Assistant Professor of Engineering, for one year, effective August 16, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Nicholas G. Ventura as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Betty W. Dewey, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph L. Stallard, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Business, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Miss Madeline M. Allen as Associate Dean of Students, for one year, effective August 1, 1971.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Debra B. Bergoffen as Lecturer in Philosophy, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Henry J. Bindel, Jr., as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Wilson M. Black as Assistant Professor of Engineering Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Henry J. Cassidy as Lecturer in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Steven L. Czarsty as Instructor in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John W. Gephart as Associate Professor, for two years, effective September 16, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Robert L. Gilstrap as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph W. Grant as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Robert H. Holdsworth as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John G. Hughes as Associate Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. James K. Joslin as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ralph B. Levering as Lecturer in History, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Elliott B. Mason as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jeanne B. Nicholson as Assistant Professor of Government, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. William W. Ritter as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard L. Seely as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Florence C. Shelton as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Donald F. Smith as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Dale K. Tikoian as Lecturer in Speech, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Gene R. Yonuschot as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Louis J. Aebischer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mrs. Robin R. Friedheim as Director of Public Information, for one year, effective June 1, 1971.Mr. John W. Gephart as Director of Development, for two years, effective September 16, 1971.Mr. Joseph W. Grant as Assistant Director of Admissions, for the period August 16, 1971, through June 30, 1974.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Lee H. Bettenhausen as Lecturer in Nuclear Engineering and Instructor in Civil Defense, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard L. Renfield as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at a salary of

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at a salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, as Associate Director, Roanoke Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective August 1, 1971.

SOUTHWESTERN REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. James R. Groseclose as Lecturer in General Studies and Assistant to the Director, Southwestern Regional Office, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 3:50 p.m.

RCB:jb
