---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1971'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1971) February 13, 1971
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 13, 1971

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 13, 1971
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:45 a.m. on February 13, 1971 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville, Virginia with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Barrett, Brown, Cross, J. Harrison, W. Harrison, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, Polly, Potter, Santarelli, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Absent: Visitor Mattern. Messrs. Vincent Shea and Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. were present throughout the meeting. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson was unable to be present for the Mary Washington College portion of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of December 4, 1970, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Edythe J. Allen as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Pediatrics, for one year, effective February 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Howard W. Allen as Lecturer in Education, for the period February 1, 1971, through May 31, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Captain James A. Ball as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective June 1971.Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. George W. Black as Acting Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. John D. Briddell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period November 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.Dr. Robert G. Burney as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert M. Chamberlain as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. George E. Copenhaver as Lecturer in Education, for the period February 1, 1971, through May 31, 1971, at an annual salary of plus 20 percent for summer and $100 for administration, or a total salary of .Mr. Karl-Achim Czemper as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Dr. William B. Davis as Instructor in Radiology, for the period November 1, 1970, through April 30, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Edward G. Dinwiddie as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective December 1, 1970, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer and $900 for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Edwin E. Erickson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of Mr. A. H. Bernd Fink as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Miss Judith C. Frosch as Instructor in Hursing, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. James R. George, III, as Lecturer in Education, for the period February 1, 1971, through May 31, 1971, three-fourths time, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Alfred G. Gilman as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Joyce M. Grimes as Instructor in Nursing, for the period January 25, 1971, through May 31, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Thomas A. Hanson as Lecturer in Architecture, one-half time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mrs. Eileen M. Hetherington as Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. J. A. C. Hetherington as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. David I. Hughes-Davies as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective February 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Charles S. Jenkins as Lecturer in Education, for the period February 1, 1971, through May 31, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Whittle Johnston as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Dr. Katherine I. Kemp as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. William W. Kerrigan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Stephen K. Land as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Miss Margaret P. Mandrillo as Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Edwin J. Matthews as Instructor in Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Julian V. Noble as Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael F. Plunkett as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Ian P. Priban as Visiting Research Professor, for one month, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Hans A. Schmitt as Professor of History, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Jose L. Sert as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Craig L. Smith as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Joseph P. Stern as Visiting Professor of German, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Miss Marylee C. Sturgis as Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for the period February 16, 1971, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of .Dr. Jagdish S. Teja as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. James W. Yates as Lecturer in Education, three-fourths time, for the period February 1, 1971, through May 31, 1971, at an annual salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. FREDERICK C. MOSHER as HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frederick C. Mosher be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. B. F. D. RUNK as SAMUEL MILLER PROFESSOR OF EXPERIMENTAL AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. B. F. D. Runk be and he is hereby elected Samuel Miller Professor of Experimental Agriculture and Forestry, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .The President announced that Mr. Runk will continue also to hold the title of Professor of Biology.

ELECTION OF MR. FRANK G. RYDER as WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF GERMAN
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frank G. Ryder be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of German, effective September 1, 1971, at an academic year salary of .

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. GEORGE C. MCGHEE
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. George C. McGhee as Diplomat-in-Residence, for one semester, as approved by the Board on February 7, 1970, be changed from September 1, 1970, to February 1, 1971.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. HERBERT M. PHILLIPS
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Herbert M. Phillips as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, as approved by the Board on October 2, 1970, be changed from December 1, 1970, to January 1, 1971.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, OCTOBER 2, 1970
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, as approved by the Board on October 2, 1970, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Leslie E. Grayson as Professor of Business Administration, for three and one-half academic years, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles H. Barron, Jr., as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Josef J. Barton as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Bruno Braunrot as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Edgar K. Browning as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles S. Chen as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Luigi Chinatti as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Coleman D. Clarke, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Warren L. Coats, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John E. Craig as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William P. Culbertson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Zita D. Dabars as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Leopold Damrosch as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Donald A. Danielson as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Thomas H. Dawson as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Daniel T. Devereux as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1971.Mr. Ronald G. Dimberg as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III, as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Hoyt N. Duggan as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John L. DuPuy as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective June 1, 1971.Mr. John W. Ellwood as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Carl A. Erdman as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David H. Flaherty as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Reginald H. Garrett as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Joseph E. Goldberg as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. George C. Grant as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. John D. Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Wesley L. Harris, Sr., as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gerald A. Heeger as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Stanley D. Henderson as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. George B. Hess as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Yukon Huang as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Donald F. Hunt as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William A. Jesser as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. James L. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Tom G. Kessinger as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William M. Kloss as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. G. Siegfried Kutter as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Joel Lazar as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Alan B. Lettofsky as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles F. Longino, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Donald L. Martin as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Lucila I. Mena as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Michael L. Mezey as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Michael W. Moohr as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ronald L. Moomaw as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Aaron Morell as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David B. Morris as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Jeffrey B. Morton as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Fredrick A. Muller as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Henry R. Odell as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Kurt O. Olsson as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Laurence C. Pettit, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John M. Pierce as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Walter D. Pilkey as Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Joseph A. Porter as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ganas K. Rakes as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Richard R. Ranta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Kenneth L. Rinker as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective December 1, 1970.Miss Marion E. Roberts as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gerard Roubichou as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gilbert Roy as Acting Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Roger A. Rydin as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Arthur G. Stevens, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Norman B. Thomson, Jr., as Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Lynn B. Tipson as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Willard A. Van Engel as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective February 1, 1971.Miss as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Frank J. F. Wordick as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John V. Yanik as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. A. Nelson Yarbrough as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. John J. Yiannias as Acting Assistant Professor of History of Art, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. A. James Arnold, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul A. Dobosh, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Patrick J. Flash, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Joe H. Gaskin, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of .Mr. Douglas A. Hatzenbuhler, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Wayne H. Keeler, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Vernon R. Miller, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robin W. Strickland, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Roger A. Upham, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. David S. Watt, Junior Instructor, to Instructor in Chemistry, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to continue his position as Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, U. S. Treasury Department.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to pursue research.Dr. Alfred G. Gilman, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, without pay, to complete his present assignment with the National Institutes of Health.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept a NARO Junior Postdoctoral Fellowship.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1971, without pay, to carry out research and writing.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr., Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to pursue research.Mr. Gordon E. Latta, William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, to take care of personal affairs.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Professor of Law, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, without pay, to accept a position as General Counsel, Office of Tele-communication Policy.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Professor of Philosophy, for the period February 1, 1972, through May 31, 1972, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Arizona.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. William I. Bacchus, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks, from Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, to Lecturer in Humanities, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Maurice D. Fisher, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Lecturer in Education, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. William K. Goosens, from Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the period January 1, 1971 through June 30, 1973.Mr. Charles S. Green, III, from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Frederick R. Lehmeyer, from Acting Assistant Professor of German, to Assistant Professor of German, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. James H. Maddox, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period December 2, 1970, through June 30, 1972.Mrs. Marlis Mann, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period December 1, 1970, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Julius E. Rivers, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Ernst O. Attinger, Professor of Physiology, and of Biomedical Engineering, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Carol D. Caples, Instructor in Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective February 1, 1971.Dr. Harold Carron, Professor of Anesthesiology, at an annual salary of , effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Professor of Physics, at a salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1971.Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1971.Dr. Shepard, Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of , effective November 1, 1970.Dr. David E. Smith, Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of , effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Stephen D. Waters, Lecturer in Education and Director, Upward Bound, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Herbert H. Winkler, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1971.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Charles C. Alexander, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective January 31, 1971, to accept a position at the University of Mississippi.Dr. Oliver B. Bobbitt as Chairman, Department of Clinical Pathology, effective January 31, 1971, to return to full time teaching and Director of the Blood Bank.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position with Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, and Alexander, New York.Dr. Douglas W. Eastwood as Chairman of the Department of Anesthesiology, effective January 31, 1971, to return to full time teaching and research.Mr. Robert T. Greene, Assistant Professor of Education, effective January 31, 1971, to accept the directorship of the State Title IV Program.Mr. George H. Lenz, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept the chairmanship of the Physics Department at Sweet Briar.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., as Assistant Provost, effective August 31, 1971, to accept the position as Director, Office of Institutional Analysis.Dr. Myron P. Walzak, Jr., Associate Professor of Urology, effective May 15, 1971, to accept the position as Chairman and Professor of Urology, Creighton University, Omaha.Mr. Ira Winarsky, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective January 31, 1971, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Associate Provost for Research, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Dr. Harold Carron as Acting Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Director, Computer Science Center, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ernest H. Ern as Dean of Admissions, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Guy Estes as Director, Seward Forest, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord as Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John Graham as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Mary M. Lohr as Dean, School of Nursing, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Woodford D. McClellan as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., as Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for the period September 1, 1971, through June 30, 1976.Mr. Robert A. Rutland as Editor, the Papers of James Madison, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Hans A. Schmitt as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William C. Seitz as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. David E. Smith as Acting Chairman, Department of Clinical Pathology, for one year, effective February 1, 1971.Mr. Edward C. Stevenson as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.

DEATH OF MR. QUINCY WRIGHT
--------------------------

LETTER OF APPRECIATION FROM MRS. S. VERNON MCCASLAND
----------------------------------------------------

The President read a letter from Mrs. S. Vernon McCasland, thanking the Board for its kindness at the time of Professor Emeritus McCasland's death.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized, as recommended by it, to charge off the following uncollectible student accounts: Schedule #28, Student Loan Funds, $16,570.83; Schedule #29, Student Accounts, $547.67; Schedule #30, Rents, $210.28; Schedule #31, Payroll Overpayment, $94.95; Schedule #32, Housing Division Fines, $271.43.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 75,428.47

Free service to Counties and Cities

258,222.76

\------------

Total

$333,651.23

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1922, 1923, 1927, 1929, 1930, 1937, 1938, 1944, and 1945, aggregating $333,651.23, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 75,428.47Free service to Counties and Cities258,222.76------------Total$333,651.23

INCREASE IN TUITION CHARGES FOR STUDENTS ENTERING THE SCHOOL OF LAW IN SEPTEMBER 1971 AND THEREAFTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the out-of-State tuition charge for students entering the School of Law be and it is hereby increased by $100 per session, effective September 1971.

INCREASE IN APPLICATION FEE
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an application fee be required in all schools of the University in Charlottesville;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that effective for the session beginning in September 1972, an application fee of $20.00 be and it is hereby established for those schools not now collecting an application fee, and for the remaining schools the fee be and it is hereby increased from $10.00 to $20.00.

DORMITORY RENTALS
-----------------

Present Charges

Proposed Charges

Monroe Hill

Corner Room, Double Occupancy

$380.00

$380.00

Regular Room, Double Occupancy

380.00

380.00

Corner Room, Triple Occupancy

\-

305.00

Lawn and Ranges

Small Single (Bachelor's Row, Lawn)

$310.00

$335.00

Regular Single (Range Rooms)

355.00

375.00

Double, Singly Occupied

355.00

380.00

Double, Doubly Occupied

\-

310.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective September 1, 1971, the following rental charges for the Monroe Hill Dormitories and rooms on the Lawn and Ranges be and they are hereby increased as follows: Present ChargesProposed ChargesMonroe HillCorner Room, Double Occupancy$380.00$380.00Regular Room, Double Occupancy380.00380.00Corner Room, Triple Occupancy-305.00Lawn and RangesSmall Single (Bachelor's Row, Lawn)$310.00$335.00Regular Single (Range Rooms)355.00375.00Double, Singly Occupied355.00380.00Double, Doubly Occupied-310.00

APPROVAL OF DEGREE PROGRAMS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree programs at George Mason College be and they are hereby approved:1. Bachelor of Arts with a major in Latin American Studies2. Bachelor of Arts with a major in German3. Bachelor of Arts with a major in Philosophy4. Bachelor of Arts with a major in Government and Politics5. Bachelor of Science with a major in Law Enforcement6. Bachelor of Science with a major in Social Welfare7. Bachelor of Science with a major in Business Administration8. Master of Arts and Master of Arts in Teaching in History9. Master of Education with majors in Secondary Education, School Administration, and School SupervisionThe degree programs will be submitted to the State Council of Higher Education for approval.The President noted that these degree programs do not necessarily duplicate those given at Charlottesville. He cited as examples the Law Enforcement and Social Welfare programs.

REPORT ON RESEARCH GRANT PROCEDURES
-----------------------------------

Mr. Vincent Shea referred to a directive of the Governor dated November 21, 1970 ordering State institutions of higher learning to deposit research and contract balances into the State Treasury.

Because of the University's extensive and diverse grant and contract activities, compliance with the directive will involve complex and costly steps. Mr. Shea reported that State Fiscal Officers have been receptive to suggestions made by the University, and that this flexibility will eliminate some of the objections to the new procedure.

REPORT ON ATHLETIC GRANTS-IN-AID
--------------------------------

The President reported that he has accepted the recommendations of Mr. Corrigan and Vice-President Williams with respect to athletic grants-in-aid. There will be an increased number of grants-in-aid available to students in the next school year.

The Rector expressed pleasure with Coach Lawrence, attributing to him the qualities of skill and dedication.

REPORT ON ANTINEPOTISM RULES
----------------------------

The President reported that he has directed the undertaking of a detailed study of opportunities for women in the faculty and as classified employees.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The Rector and the President both spoke about the importance to the University of the generous gifts of Mr. C. Waller Barrett.

NAMING OF THE TRACK
-------------------

Upon recommendation of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the President, action on the naming of the track was postponed for further study.

INCREASE IN FEE FOR SCHOOL OF NURSING
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the School of Nursing Student Activity Fee be increased from the current rate of $20.00 for the nine month session to $30.00 to provide funds to provide each student with malpractice insurance.

REPORT TO BOARD ON ACTION OF EXECUTIVE AND BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEES REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT FOR THE TELEPHONE STRUCTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the members of the Executive and Buildings and Grounds Committees voted unanimously in favor of the architectural firm, Rawlings, Wilson, and Fraher, to design a small building to house the University telephone exchange. Upon motion, the action of the Executive Committee was confirmed by unanimous vote.

EASTERN SHORE CONVEYANCE
------------------------

The President reported on the request of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) for retransfer of a portion of the Eastern Shore Branch in Accomack County, containing approximately forty-three acres of land and eight buildings, for use by a Marine Science Consortium of several institutions of higher learning for research and educational programs in marine science.

It was pointed out that this certain surplus property and buildings thereon were conveyed to the University in 1964 by the United States of America, acting through the Secretary of HEW, upon the condition that the University would utilize the property for educational purposes. However, the University has been unable to implement full utilization of the property for such educational purposes. The University therefore desires to join with HEW in transferring the requested portion of unused land to the Consortium, along with such utility easements as the University may deem necessary for the operation of the Consortium.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, hereby authorized to join with the United States of America, through the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, in executing appropriate instruments and doing all acts necessary to convey to the Marine Science Consortium a certain portion of the Eastern Shore Branch of the University of Virginia located in Accomack County, containing approximately forty-three (43) acres of land and eight (8) buildings, along with certain utility easements, such instruments as may be required to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement of institutional purpose be and it is hereby adopted for Clinch Valley College:Clinch Valley College is founded upon the historic commitments of the University of Virginia to excellence and service, and is dedicated to the development of sensitive, cultured, open-minded citizens who ground their thinking in facts, who are intellectually aware, who believe that life is significant, and who are concerned about society and their role in it.This central purpose is served by activities designed:(1) To quicken, discipline, and enlarge the intellectual capacities of the members of the college and to record, preserve, and disseminate the results of intellectual inquiry; and(2) To promote excellence in instruction leading to baccalaureate degrees in the arts and in the social and natural sciences -- not merely by transmitting established skills and knowledge, but by developing their ability to think, to respond to ideas, and to question freely and interpret human institutions and experience; and(3) To create an intellectual and cultural center for the Southwestern part of Virginia and to stimulate the improvement and development of the area and its people.In concert with this central purpose, Clinch Valley College will pursue the following general institutional objectives:(1) To emphasize liberal arts as the foundation of of the whole college program;(2) To establish and maintain appropriate programs designed to serve the Commonwealth, especially Southwest Virginia;(3) To serve the college community and the community-at-large through special programs, lectures, drama, music, art, and library services;(4) To provide students with the opportunity to obtain high quality pre-professional education.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR DORMITORY PROJECT AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Smithy and Boynton of Roanoke, Virginia be and it is hereby approved for supervising a dormitory project for 200 men students at Clinch Valley College.

PERMISSION FOR THE PRESIDENT TO PERMIT THE SALE OF HARDBACK BOOKS AT THE NEWCOMB HALL BOOKSTORE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby permitted to offer for sale in the Newcomb Hall Bookstore hardback books within the present limits of the classes served.

REPORT ON THE BAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIP FUND
--------------------------------------------

The President reported on the Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships. He pointed out that he was taking administrative action to change the policy for awarding Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships from one based entirely on need to a policy that provides eligible students with a base award of $200; additional amounts may be awarded if warranted by need. No action was taken.

STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION MEETING
-----------------------------------------

The President announced that the State Council of Higher Education will meet at the University on the morning of March 4, 1971. He urged members of the Board of Visitors to attend the meeting if possible.

CRANBERG MATTER
---------------

Mr. Middleditch advised the Board of Visitors that the Cranberg suit has been settled. The terms of the settlement are to remain confidential.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector expressed concern that the Board is not in a position to resolve some of the University's most pressing problems. He noted especially the serious problems posed by the Library. He expressed the gratitude of the Board to Mr. C. Waller Barrett for his continuing efforts to focus attention on the needs of the Library, and for his generous gifts. The Rector expressed the gratitude of the Board to Mr. Richard S. Cross for his unfailing service, and particularly for his service on the Mary Washington College Committee.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President thanked the Board for arranging for him to be with the 6th Fleet at the time of the December Board meeting. He announced to the Board that the Assembly of Professors had concluded that it would not be wise to request a faculty representative to sit with the Board at its meetings. The Assembly of Professors did recommend that they nominate members to the Board, and they further recommended that out-of-State Board members be alumni and faculty members at other institutions.

REPORT BY MR. SANTARELLI
------------------------

Mr. Santarelli read to the Board a clipping from the Cavalier Daily which indicated that a bail fund had been set up from funds collected under the Student Activities Fee. He urged that the legality of this procedure be investigated.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Sara Kathryn Bethea as Assistant Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for the second semester of the 1970-71 academic session, effective February 1971, at a total semester salary of .Mr. William B. Clatanoff, Jr., as Visiting Lecturer in Economics, one-half time, for the second semester of the 1970-1971 academic session, effective February 1, 1971, at a total semester salary of .Mr. John M. Kramer as Visiting Lecturer in Political Science, at one-fourth time, for the second semester of the 1970-1971 academic session, effective February 1, 1971, at a total semester salary of Mrs. Martha Lee S. Randall as Instructor in Music (Voice), one-half time, for the second semester of the 1970-1971 academic session, effective February 1, 1971, at a total semester salary of .

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Lorraine Brown as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

GEORGE MASON - VEPCO
--------------------

The President reported that Chancellor Lorin A. Thompson had requested a conveyance of primary electrical power facilities at George Mason College to the Virginia Electric and Power Company (VEPCO). This conveyance is consistent with an agreement between the State of Virginia and VEPCO relative to VEPCO'S maintaining the primary power facilities at state institutions, where such institutions request a transfer.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that pursuant to Section 2.1-6 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the conveyance by bill of sale of the primary electrical power facilities at George Mason College to the Virginia Electric and Power Company is hereby approved and ratified, the consent of the Governor having been obtained.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE RETIREMENT PLAN
------------------------------------

Contributions as Percent of Salary

Base

By the Participant

By the Institution

Total

On the first $7,000 of Annual Salary

5%

0

5%

On Salary above $7,000

5%

15%

20%

Contributions as Percent of Salary

Base

By the Participant

By the Institution

Total

Annual Salary

5%

5%

10%

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following retirement plan for George Mason College be and it is hereby approved:1. Participation. A retirement plan is hereby established for all regular full-time faculty members and administrative officers of George Mason College of the University of Virginia holding the rank of Assistant Professor and above. Eligible staff members shall be required to participate in either the Virginia Supplemental Retirement System or this plan.2. Retirement Age. Except as provided in Section III, all participants in this retirement plan shall retire at the end of the academic year in which they attain age 65, herein called normal retirement age.3. Extension of Service. By special vote of the Board of Visitors, extensions of service beyond normal retirement age may be made for definite periods not to exceed one year each, but no such extensions shall postpone retirement beyond the end of the academic year in which age 70 is attained.4. Contributions. Contributions to this retirement plan shall be made in accordance with one of the following schedules:Schedule A. For eligible members who are participating in the plan during Academic Year 1970-1971: Contributions as Percent of SalaryBaseBy the ParticipantBy the InstitutionTotalOn the first $7,000 of Annual Salary5%05%On Salary above $7,0005%15%20% The base figure ($7,000) will be changed as the Social Security base changes and as the College finds it necessary to keep the retirement plan solvent.On September 1, 1971 the base figure will change to $7,800. Consistent with proposed changes to the Social Security base it is probable that the base figure for this plan will change to $9,000 on September 1, 1972.Under Schedule A of the plan no contributions will be made by the College on salaries above $17,500.Schedule B. For members whose eligibility and employment commences on or after September 1, 1971: Contributions as Percent of SalaryBaseBy the ParticipantBy the InstitutionTotalAnnual Salary5%5%10% George Mason College shall forward the combined sum under either schedule to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association for the purchase of retirement benefits for the participant as follows:(a) At the election of the participant, either 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, or 25 percent of such combined sum will be applied as a premium for a TIAA retirement annuity contract on the participant's life.(b) The balance, if any, of such combined sum will be applied as a premium for a CREF retirement annuity certificate on the participant's life.5. In the above Schedules the George Mason College contribution applies only to the session salary or the total salary of those holding 12 months appointments, and only to that portion of such salaries payable from State appropriations.6. Change in Contribution Plan. Those members participating under Schedule A may elect to change to Schedule B. The decision to change must be made within sixty calendar days after the approval of this resolution and the change in plan will be effective as of September 1, 1971.7. Leave of Absence. During leave of absence on part pay, the George Mason College contribution will be limited to the amount appropriate to the adjusted pay rate.8. Contracts. Each TIAA retirement annuity contract and CREF certificate issued in accordance with Section IV of this plan is for the sole purpose of providing a retirement and/or death benefit and is the property of the individual participant.9. Repurchase. In the event a participant in TIAA or TIAA-CREF leaves the employ of George Mason College for reasons other than retirement or disability and requests repurchase of his annuity, George Mason College will approve such repurchase provided it meets the conditions under which TIAA-CREF will repurchase annuities automatically, and provided that the participant consents, and that the portion of the repurchase value attributable to George Mason College contributions shall be paid to the College by TIAA-CREF.10. Amendment. While it isthat this plan will continue indefinitely, George Mason College reserves the right to modify or discontinue it at any time.11. Effective Date. The effective date of this retirement plan shall be February 1, 1971.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Patrick Henry College of the School of General Studies:Mrs. Janice A. Cullen as Instructor in Nursing, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, part-time, at a salary of .Mrs. Linda C. Hodges as Instructor in Nursing, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, one-half time, at a salary of .Mrs. Judith K. Matthews as Instructor in Nursing, part-time, for the period January 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, at a salary of

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:34 p.m.

RCB:jb
