---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1971'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA December 11, 1971
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:03 a.m. on December 11, 1971 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Visitor Hugh Scott. Messrs. Vincent Shea, David A. Shannon, and Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. were present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of October 1, 1971, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Helen L. Anthony as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period January 17, 1972, through June 30, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Aparna Basu as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen as Associate Professor of Pharmacology and of Biochemistry, effective May 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Miss Mary J. Brewer as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective November 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John W. Christian as Lecturer in Materials Science, for two months, effective January 1, 1972, at a salary of .Dr. William R. Drucker as Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Larry Gibson as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of Mr. Hayden H. Gordon as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Walter J. Hogman as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Roy D. Hudson as Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, part-time, for one year, effective January 1, 1972.Mr. Robert A. Jordan as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Madison E. Judson as Lecturer in Education, for the period September 1, 1971 through July 31, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period September 1, 1971, through August 31, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Orman W. Ketcham as Lecturer of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a semester salary of .Mr. Howard C. Kutchai as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Margareta Mattsson as Instructor in German, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ezra J. Mishan as Visiting Professor of Economics, for the period April 1, 1972 through June 30, 1972, at a salary of Mr. Lewis Mumford as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Visiting Scholar in Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Mrs. Elizabeth M. Ramsey as Mamie A. Jessup Visiting Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective January 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Wolfgang D. Riecke as Lecturer in Materials Science, for one month, effective April 9, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. Edmund F. SantaVicca as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period November 1, 1971 through June 30, 1972, at an annual salary of .Miss Dolores M. Schroeder as Instructor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective February 16, 1972, at an annual salary of .Dr. Philip T. Shiner as Instructor in Family and Community Medicine, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Mark N. Silbert as Instructor in Marine Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ekkehard Sinn as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for the period December 16, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of .Mr. Kanubhai D. Suthar as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period November 4, 1971 through June 30, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Don E. Uhl as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period January 5, 1972, through June 30, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. David B. Waters as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 16, 1971, through June 30, 1974, at an annual salary of Mr. Charles C. Webb as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Mrs. Alberta S. Widman as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. George D. Williams, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Dr. John K. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective October 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Judge Robert K. Woltz as Lecturer in Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of Mr. Ralph P. Zehler, Jr. as Lecturer in Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. John M. Zeigler as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.

ELECTION OF MR. FRANCIS G. LANKFORD, JR., AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Education, effective February 1, 1972, with a supplementary salary of per semester.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. SOUMEYENDRA N. MUKHERJEE
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Soumeyendra N. Mukherjee as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on June 4, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Phillip M. Allen as Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, for three years, effective October 1, 1971.Mr. Robert E. L. Black as Lecturer in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Robert L. Bolus as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Edgar K. Browning as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Carlo Bruni as Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Robert J. Byrne as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Dale R. Calder as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Mark E. Chittenden as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Coleman D. Clarke, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William J. Davis as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ching S. Fang as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Wilhelm Godschalk as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Paul A. Haefner, Jr., as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Dexter S. Haven as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Paul V. Hyer as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. S. G. Whittle Johnston as Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James L. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Alan B. Lettofsky as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Joseph Loesch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William G. MacIntyre as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Kenneth L. Marcellus as Instructor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John V. Merriner as Instructor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Richard W. Moncure as Instructor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Maynard M. Nichols as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John J. Norcross as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Frank O. Perkins as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Richard R. Ranta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Albert F. Rodewald as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Lewis E. Snyder as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John E. Solie as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Stephen T. Thornton as Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period December 28, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Lynn B. Tipson as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. J. Ernest Warinner, III, as Instructor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Marvin L. Wass as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Lieutenant Commander Merle A. Waugaman as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective September 1971.Mr. Kenneth L. Webb as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Miss Patricia J. Widhalm as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Frank J. Wojcik as Instructor in Marine Science, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. John J. Yiannias as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. David E. Zwerner as Instructor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Hans O. Riddervold, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, effective December 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Daniel L. Seale, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, effective December 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Dr. Harvey D. Smallwood, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Dorothy A. Twohig, Instructor in History, to Assistant Professor of Humanistic Sources, for three years, effective January 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. John L. Gainer, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to devote full time to research.Mr. Ravindra S. Khare, Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research under a fellowship from the American Institute of Indian Studies.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to complete research on an engineering textbook.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to look after personal affairs.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to serve as Lecturer, Yale University, and carry out research for the Field Brothers Book.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Professor of Law, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, for research work in Germany.Mr. Lev Zetlin, University Professor of Architecture and of Civil Engineering, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to fulfill professional obligations.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Zita D. Dabars, from Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, to Assistant Professor of Russian, for the period November 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. William W. Kerrigan, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period November 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Stephen K. Land, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period November 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period October 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart, from Acting Assistant Professor of German, to Assistant Professor of German, for the period October 16, 1971, through June 30, 1973.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. John W. Christian as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective January 1, 1972.Dr. William R. Drucker as Dean, School of Medicine, for five years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Associate Director of the Counseling Center, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ralph W. Ingersoll as Assistant Dean of Medicine and Assistant to the Vice-President for Health Sciences, for one year, effective October 1, 1971.Mr. Wolfgang D. Riecke as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective April 9, 1972.

DEATH OF MR. J. N. G. FINLEY
----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. RICHARD L. GODINE
------------------------------

CHARLES C. ABBOTT PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the Graduate School of Business Administration to be known as the Charles C. Abbott Professorship in Business Administration.

JOHN DOWNMAN HAMILTON PROFESSORSHIP IN ASTRONOMY
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established the first endowed Chair in the Department of Astronomy to be known as the John Downman Hamilton Professorship in Astronomy.

HERMAN C. AND CARRIE W. WATSON MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIPS
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there are hereby established scholarships to be known as the Herman C. and Carrie W. Watson Memorial Scholarships for worthy boys and girls entering the University from the Eastern Shore of Virginia.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1972
-----------------------------------

Wednesday and Thursday, February 2 and 3, 1972

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 6, 7, and 8, 1972

Fredericksburg

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, May 31, and June 1, and 2, 1972

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, October 11, 12, and 13, 1972

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, December 7, 8, and 9, 1972

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1972 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: Wednesday and Thursday, February 2 and 3, 1972CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 6, 7, and 8, 1972FredericksburgWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, May 31, and June 1, and 2, 1972CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, October 11, 12, and 13, 1972Charlottesville Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, December 7, 8, and 9, 1972Charlottesville

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

Copies of a detailed report on Athletic Finances were mailed to each Board member on October 15, 1971. Additional copies were distributed at the meeting.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period July 1, 1970 to June 30, 1971" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program. In his report, he expressed particular satisfaction with the status of the new Law School which should be ready for occupancy in the fall of 1974.

NAMING OF THE VIRGINIA HIGHWAY RESEARCH COUNCIL BUILDING
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the building constructed to house the Virginia Highway Research Council be and it is hereby named the Tilton E. Shelburne Highway Research Building.

REPORT TO BOARD ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE NAMING OF THE NEW LAW SCHOOL LIBRARY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on naming Arthur J. Morris Law Library. The Board confirmed the action of the Executive Committee.

REPORT ON MEETING WITH BLACK FACULTY AND STUDENTS
-------------------------------------------------

The President reported to the Board on a meeting held on November 17, 1971 and attended by some members of the Board, some Black faculty members and students, and some members of the administration. Subsequent to the meeting, the black students and faculty members who constituted themselves as The Black Student Alliance Negotiating Committee at the University of Virginia sent a list of "directives and proposals" to the President and members of the Board. These dealt with increasing the number of black faculty and administrative personnel at the University, increasing black enrollment, improvement of the Black Studies Program, improving housing conditions for black students, and the alleviation of pressures and psychological strains placed upon blacks in the University environment. The President announced that he will prepare a written statement to respond to the directives and proposals.

WIDENING OF ROUTE 50
--------------------

Prior Board action of 5 June 1970 and 3 April 1971 regarding the relocation of State Route 50 adjacent to the Blandy Farm in Clarke County was reviewed and subsequent investigation and correspondence discussed (including information that the historic dry stone wall on the Blandy Farm was rebuilt by the Highway Department in 1941).

Upon invitation of the Board, right of way engineers of the State Highway Department discussed various aspects of the proposed route pointing out various considerations regarding the destruction of property, cost and safety. Likewise, Mr. B. F. D. Runk, on behalf of the University's Arboretum Committee, stressed the destruction of a stand of hardwood trees if the road was widened on the Blandy Farm side, south of the existing highway.

After those invited to provide information had left the meeting, a prolonged and intensive discussion ensued. It was pointed out that to avoid taking property from the Blandy Farm, a possible engineering solution to the highway relocation might provide for the location of the new lane on the opposite (north) side of the existing lane adjacent to Blandy Farm. The highway relocation then could be switched to the south side of the existing lane as it proceeds east from the Farm. Damage to commercial and residential properties would be thereby minimized.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Board continues to object to any widening of existing Route 50 in Clarke County which would require taking of property from the University's Blandy Experimental Farm.

REPORT ON THE WAGE-PRICE FREEZE
-------------------------------

The President reported to the Board on the status of the Wage-Price Freeze. He pointed out that wages and salary increases previously frozen were authorized to go into effect November 16. The federal freeze regulations would have permitted the increases to be made effective November 15, 1971 and that he had requested that the November 16 date be reconsidered. As of this date, retroactive salary increases are not authorized, but there is a possibility that they might be.

SUMMER SESSION TUITION AND FEES
-------------------------------

Beginning in 1972 the regular Summer Session will be nine weeks session instead of eight weeks. Tuition increases are necessary to cover additional costs including the increasing of faculty salaries.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective for the 1972 Summer Session, the tuition charges be and they are hereby increased as follows:(1) For in-State students from $18.00 to $21.00 per semester hour(2) For out-of-State students from $36.00 to $42.00 per semester hourRESOLVED FURTHER that the Summer Session Research Fee be and it is hereby increased from $50.00 to $60.00; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Fee be increased from $6.00 to $8.00; andRESOLVED FURTHER that for those students attending the Summer Session for four and one-half weeks or less, the Medical Fee shall be $5.00.

ESTABLISHMENT OF MASTER OF ENGINEERING PROGRAM IN BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree program in the School of Engineering and Applied Science be and it is hereby approved:Master of Engineering Program in Biomedical EngineeringThe program will be submitted to the State Council of Higher Education for approval.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGES IN THE NAMES OF DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced changes in the names of departments in the College of Arts and Sciences as follows:

(a) The Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages changed to the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures

(b) The Department of Spanish and Portuguese Literature changed to the Department of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$159,849.25

Free service to Counties and Cities

435,347.48

\----------

Total

$595,196.73

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 2057, 2058, 2064, 2065, 2072, 2073, 2079, 2080, 2087, 2088, 2091, 2092, 2096, and 2097, aggregating $595,196.73, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$159,849.25Free service to Counties and Cities435,347.48----------Total$595,196.73

LAW SCHOOL STUDENT FEE
----------------------

Following a lengthy discussion, the following resolution was adopted by a divided vote of 8 in favor and 6 opposed:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Law School Student Fee of $4.00 per semester be increased to $6.00 per semester to pay the additional cost of a new examination system approved by the Faculty of the School of Law, the increase to become effective the second semester of the 1971-1972 session.

The opposition expressed was not leveled at the collection of a fee, but against the establishment of an examination schedule which permits students to schedule their examinations as they choose within a two week period. The Honor Committee approved this principle of flexible examination schedule.

The Rector, speaking for the Board, indicated that his conversations with Board members revealed that the majority of the Board members do not favor a flexible examination schedule, but would permit it at this time. The Board will expect at a later date to learn from the President how effective the system has been. The Board is strongly opposed to widening the flexible examination policies to schools other than the School of Law.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following architects be and they are hereby approved:(a) For Lambeth Field Housing:Sasaki, Dawson, DeMay Associates, Inc., Watertown, Massachusetts, in association with Rawlings, Wilson, and Fraher, Richmond, Virginia(b) For Dining Hall at Alderman and McCormick Roads:Williams and Tazewell and Associates, Norfolk, Virginia(c) For Medical Center Master Plan:Hugh Stubbins/ Rex Allen Partnership, Cambridge, Massachusetts(d) For Outpatient Department and Clinical Services BuildingHugh Stubbins/Rex Allen Partnership, Cambridge, Massachusetts, in association with Rawlings, Wilson and Fraher, Richmond, Virginia

REPORT ON THE BURKETT MILLER MATTER
-----------------------------------

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, the Legal Adviser, reported that Governor Holton and Rector Joseph H. McConnell visited Mr. Burkett Miller in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Mr. Miller is considering making a substantial contribution toward the creation of a Center for Public Affairs before the end of this year. Negotiations are continuing.

APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL COMMITTEE FOR THE TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Tayloe Murphy Institute is not fulfilling its projected purpose at this time, and that there are questions about the organization of the Institute and its mission which will require serious consideration.

The Rector appointed a special committee of the Board to examine the Tayloe Murphy Institute and make recommendations to the Board. Appointed were: Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman, Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Mr. W. Wright Harrison and Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

SEWARD FOREST
-------------

The President reported on the possible sale of The Seward Forest in Brunswick County, Virginia. Seward Forest was devised to the University in 1932 by Dr. Walter M. Seward, in trust, for certain educational purposes related to forestry. By his Will, Dr. Seward provided for a termination of the trust if, in the opinion of the Board of Visitors of the University, further developments in the fields of education, science or industry might render its purposes impracticable or unwise. In this event, the property or any parts thereof might be sold by the University and the proceeds applied to such purposes as the Board might deem wise.

It was pointed out that, when the Seward Forest was a part of the University's educational program under the Department of Forestry, it served the University and the profession of forestry in accord with Dr. Seward's original plans. However, the development of the Department of Forestry was discontinued in 1957 and the department abolished. Since then the University has not deemed it practical or wise to attempt a forestry degree program. In addition, the Governor's Management Study of 1970, convened by the Governor to provide comprehensive suggestions for improving economy and efficiency in government administration, recommended the sale of the Seward Forest with the revenue therefrom to be earmarked for the University Endowment Fund.

The Board then discussed the report of the University Arboretum Committee concerning the Seward Forest. According to this report, the Seward Forest has played no significant role in the education processes of the University since the removal of forestry as a degree program and has made only a modest contribution to forestry education in the State through service to other institutions and organizations. In addition, although the land and timber value of the Seward Forest has significantly appreciated, generally the yearly expenses of operation have exceeded the income received from sale of forest products.

There followed a discussion of Dr. Seward's Will, the history of the Seward Forest operation, the recommendations of the Governor's Management Study, and the Arboretum Committee Report. The President advised the Board that the Arboretum Committee is on record as being opposed to the sale of Seward Forest.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that as contemplated by Article SIXTH of the Will of Dr. Walter M. Seward probated in the Clerk's Office of Brunswick County, Virginia in 1932, further developments in the fields of education, science, and industry have rendered the purposes of the trust imposed by the Will upon the Seward Forest in such county, to be unwise and therefore, pursuant to the terms of Dr. Seward's Will, the aforesaid trust be and it is hereby terminated.RESOLVED FURTHER that the President and Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized and directed, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, to execute appropriate instruments and do all acts necessary to convey the Seward Forest to an acceptable buyer, such instruments as may be required to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.RESOLVED FURTHER that, after any such sale, in accordance with Article SIXTH of Dr. Seward's Will, the Board shall apply the funds derived from such sale, together with all other funds then remaining in the University's hands under Dr. Seward's Will, to such purposes as the Board may deem wise.

FACULTY MORTGAGE BOND ISSUE
---------------------------

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are authorized by Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of such Board and by and with the approval of the Governor, to borrow money and issue its bonds and secure payment thereof by the pledge of any stocks, notes or bonds held by such institution as part of its endowment funds and which are secured by a lien upon any real estate; andWHEREAS, Section 103 (d) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, excepts from the definition of an "arbitrage bond" any obligation "issued as part of an issue substantially all of the proceeds of which are reasonably expected to be used to provide permanent financing for real property used or to be used for residential purposes for the personnel of an educational institution (within the meaning of Section 151 (e) (4) which grants baccalaureate or higher degrees, or to replace funds which were so used, and the yield on which over the term of the issue is not reasonably expected, at the time of the issuance of such issue, to be substantially lower than the yield on obligations acquired or to be acquired in providing such financing"; andWHEREAS, the endowment funds of the University of Virginia (the University) holds notes or bonds secured by mortgages or deeds of trust in real estate used to provide permanent financing for real property used for residential purposes for the personnel of the University on which the outstanding principal amount is not less than $11,000,000 and the University desires to issue its bonds to replace the endowment funds so used and to provide funds to be used in the future for such purposes;BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there are hereby authorized to be issued and sold bonds of the University secured by a pledge of any notes or bonds held by the University as a part of its endowment funds and which are secured by a lien upon any real estate used or to be used for residential purposes for the personnel of the University, such bonds to be issued in an amount, with maturities, at rates of interest and upon such other terms and secured within the limits of Section 23-30.01 as shall be hereafter authorized by the Executive Committee of the Board and approved by the Governor of Virginia.

AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT TO $23,450,000 COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL BONDS, SERIES 1971 INCLUDING $200,000 FOR PARKING GARAGES AND $600,000 FOR A DORMITORY FOR 100 STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Projects

Amount

Parking Garages

$200,000

Dormitory for 100 students

$600,000

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 147 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia of 1971, the Treasury Board was authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $23,600,000 for the purpose of providing funds, with any other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring or constructing specific revenue producing capital projects at institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 (c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia; andWHEREAS, said revenue producing capital projects include the following capital projects for the University of Virginia: ProjectsAmountParking Garages$200,000Dormitory for 100 students$600,000 andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board has sold $23,450,000 bonds, designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, Series 1971", which include sums of $200,000 and $600,000 for the above mentioned capital projects for the University of Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:Section 1. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates, the anticipated net revenues to be pledged to the payment of principal of and interest on the portion of the bonds issued on behalf of the University of Virginia for the above capital projects, including the net revenues to be received from the above capital projects and the excess net revenues pledged thereto from existing capital projects, will be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on that portion of the bonds issued for each such capital project as the same become due.Section 2. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (a) covenant to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the above capital projects and pledges the same and any increases in revenues to be derived from any designated existing facilities at the University of Virginia resulting from any increase in the rates, fees or charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of any such existing facilities to the payment of the principal of and the interest on that portion of the bonds issued for each designated capital project and (b) covenant to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of any designated existing facilities at the University of Virginia and pledges the same to the payment of the principal of and the interest on that portion of the bonds issued for each designated capital project. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia further covenant that such rates, fees, and charges will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from each capital project and the other revenues pledged thereto will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest on that portion of the bonds issued on behalf of the University of Virginia for each such capital project. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of principal of and interest on that portion of the bonds issued on behalf of the University of Virginia for each such capital project may be used by the University of Virginia for any other proper purpose.Section 3. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia covenant that the University will pay to the State Treasurer 30 days before each semi-annual interest payment date the amount certified by the State Treasurer to the University of Virginia to be due and payable for the payment of the principal of and the interest on that portion of the bonds issued on behalf of the University of Virginia for each revenue producing capital project mentioned above.Section 4. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia covenant to pay from time to time the University's proportionate part of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the above bonds of the Commonwealth and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the University of Virginia.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported that the Committee met with the State Council of Higher Education at Fredericksburg on the morning of December 9, 1971 as the Self-Study was reviewed. She indicated that the State Council had reacted positively to the Self-Study Report, but was less than positive in its reactions toward The Bullet, the Mary Washington College newspaper.

Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported that his Committee had heard an interesting report by Dean of Admissions, Ernest Ern. He expressed the hope that the data on which the report was based could be assembled for further study. The President agreed to see that a summary of this data is prepared for circulation to members of the Board.

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, advised that his Committee had heard statements by Mr. Thomas Collier and Mr. Peter Gillespie, President and Vice-President of Student Council. Mr. Collier, speaking for the Student Council, requested the University administration "to immediately halt the expansion of enrollment until facilities adequate to serve the student body and maintain the quality of student life are provided". The Council statement was endorsed by 28 student organizations.

The President explained that the size of the next years class is not set pending a report of the Committee on the Future of the University. The President will discuss the report with the Board before taking action in setting the class size. The Board approved a draft of a letter advising Mr. Christian White, who petitioned the Board to deny the use of Student Activity Fee funds to The Virginia Weekly, that no action was taken by the Board with respect to The Virginia Weekly.

Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee reported that his Committee had approved a site plan for Lambeth Field. He also discussed a petition against pay parking signed by 1,373 employees of the University. The petition has been taken under advisement.

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the condemnation proceedings for the Southern Welding Property are going forward, and that negotiations for the sale of the Hobbs Gas Company (acquired as part of the Moyston Estate) are nearing completion.

Dr. Edwin L. Kendig, Chairman of the Medical Committee, reported that the Towers facility located just east of the Medical Center has opened and that it is now serving 43 patients. It will expand further in January. He also reported that the enrollment in the School of Nursing has reached 318, an encouraging increase. The Board discussed at some length a proposed medical school to be located in Norfolk, Virginia, noting that since the locality will pay the costs of the associated hospital, state expenditures per physician graduated are predicted to be considerably lower there than they are at the University.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The Rector observed that the terms of three of our most honored Board members will conclude with the February 1972 meeting. In view of the diverse problems facing higher education today, he expressed hope that each member of the Board would rededicate himself to being maximally useful to the University in spite of the obstacles before us, that the University would continue to strive toward excellence.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Eva I. Shipstone as Visiting Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective August 15, 1972, at a session salary of .

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD J. KRICKUS
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Richard J. Krickus, as approved by the Board on April 3, 1971, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Richard J. Krickus, Visiting Lecturer in Political Science, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a semester salary of .

RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE STUDY BY THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION ON THE FUTURE STATUS OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The University of Virginia has long been concerned with providing high quality educational opportunities to develop the abilities and fulfill the needs of the young people of the Commonwealth through the University at Charlottesville and four-year institutions of the University in other geographical locations in the State.

The growing cost of higher education and the increased needs and expectancy of the people of Virginia for higher education can be met only if Virginia's higher educational institutions are soundly planned and efficiently operated. In seeking to open new opportunities for young men and women, Virginia's colleges and universities have undertaken to avoid duplication, make efficient use of facilities, and continue to seek ways of strengthening the State's diversified system of higher education. The University is committed to responding effectively to these new demands for higher education during the 1970's.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, a liberal arts college, formerly the woman's college of the University of Virginia, draws its students from throughout the State and nation and, by action of the Board of Visitors and the General Assembly, no longer limits its enrollment to the admission of women; andWHEREAS under Article 23-9.6 of the Code of Virginia the State Council of Higher Education is "charged with the duty of assembling data and, with the aid of the boards and officers of the several institutions, preparing plans under which the several state-supported institutions of higher education in Virginia shall constitute a coordinated system," andWHEREAS there have been recent studies, beginning with the Report of the Higher Education Study Commission of 1965 prepared by John Dale Russell and culminating in the College's Self-Study of 1971, concerning the future of the College and recommending new dimensions of development for the College, including separation from the University of Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the State Council of Higher Education be and it is hereby requested to study and advise the Board of Visitors concerning the future relationship of Mary Washington College to the University of Virginia, so as to fulfill to the greatest extent possible the educational needs of the people of the Commonwealth and the further development of the educational quality and stature of Mary Washington College.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Anna M. Mueller as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Patricia A. Neighbarger as Instructor, George Mason College Library, for one year, effective November 22, 1971, at an annual salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Helen L. Sehrt as Assistant Professor of German, effective September 1, 1970.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mr. James H. Sood, from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972.

NEW DEGREE PROGRAMS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree programs are approved, effective September 1, 1972. They will be submitted for final approval to the State Council of Higher Education:Undergraduate Programs(a) B.A. in Music(b) B.S. in Medical Technology(c) B.S. in Health and Physical Education(d) B.S. in Secondary EducationGraduate Programs(a) Master of Business Administration(b) Master of Science in Physics(c) Master of Arts in Psychology(d) Master of Education in Guidance and Counseling(e) Master of Education in Reading(f) Master of Education in Special Education

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES MATTERELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John C. Deupree as Lecturer in General Studies and Associate Director of the Richmond Regional Office, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at an annual salary of

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 11:08 a.m.

RCB:jb
