---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1972'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA December 8, 1972
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m. on December 8, 1972 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Visitors Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Hugh Scott, and William L. Zimmer, III. Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., and Vice-Presidents David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Kenneth R. Crispell and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 13, 1972, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. J. Francis Amos as Instructor in Family and Community Medicine and in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Carol A. Anfin as Lecturer in Education, for the period September 1, 1972, through July 31, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John T. Blue, Jr., as Lecturer, General Faculty, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Ann E. Cook as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Larry E. Decker as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective February 1, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Dr. James E. Etheridge, Jr., as Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Antoinette T. Hafer as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Thomas J. Hegarty as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 1, 1972, through June 30, 1975.Dr. Robert T. Hyde as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 15, 1972, through June 30, 1975.Mr. John L. Knapp as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Miss Beth Lawton as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Captain Boyd R. Messinger as Assistant Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective June 1973.Mr. Joshua L. Robinson as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $.Mrs. Catherine H. C. Seaman as Associate Professor of Nursing, one-fourth time, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Cynthia M. Sinnott as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period October 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Douglas W. Tanner as Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period November 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Richard A. Wiklund as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective October 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Martha A. Greene as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Arlyn C. Jurin as Assistant Professor of Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Sheila A. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, one-fourth time, for the period September 1, 1972, through January 19, 1973.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles M. Heuchert, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James M. Kauffman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Laurence C. Pettit, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1973.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Charles H. Barron, Jr., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept employment with E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research at the University of Chicago.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to spend the session at the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility.Mr. Carl O. Trindle, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for two months, effective April 1, 1973, to visit the Middle East Technical University, Ankara, Turkey.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED MR. WILLIAM S. WEEDON
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the leave of absence granted Mr. William S. Weedon, as approved by the Board on April 7, 1972, be changed to read as follows:Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research and writing in the general area of Buddhist Studies.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Stephen L. Baehr, from Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, to Assistant Professor of Russian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Edward M. Bloomberg, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period November 1, 1972, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Charles R. Russell, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ricardo B. Schwarz, from Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Werner K. Sensbach, from Lecturer in City Planning, to Associate Professor of City Planning, effective November 1, 1972, for a term to coincide with the appointment as Director of Campus Planning.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Charles A. Plesums, Associate Director, Research and Instructional Systems Development, Computing Activities, and Lecturer in Computer Science, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administration, or a total salary of $, effective September 1, 1972.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Eugene H. Brock, Director, Computing Activities and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, effective December 31, 1972, because of illness.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position as Chairman of the Political Science Department, University of Illinois.Dr. William G. Thurman, B. Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1973, to accept the position of Dean of Tulane University School of Medicine.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Dr. Donald J. Wright as Director, Computing Activities and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for the period December 16, 1972, through June 30, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Dean, School of Architecture, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Lester G. Crocker as Acting Chairman, Department of Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese Literature, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Monrad G. Paulsen as Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.

DEATH OF DR. W. GAYLE CRUTCHFIELD
---------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. PAUL S. DULANEY
----------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE IN THE ACADEMIC CALENDAR
-----------------------------------------------

The President announced a new academic calendar which will become effective in September, 1973. The calendar provides for opening early in September and completion of the first semester before the Christmas vacation. The second semester will begin in mid January. The "semester break" formerly scheduled for late January is eliminated. Finals exercises are scheduled for May 19, 1973. The President also announced that effective in June 1972, the summer session was lengthened from eight to nine weeks.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1973
-----------------------------------

Thursday and Friday February 1 and 2, 1973

Charlottesville

Thursday and Friday April 5 and 6, 1973

Clinch Valley College Wise, Virginia

Thursday and Friday May 31 and June 1, 1973

Charlottesville

Thursday and Friday October 25 and 26, 1973

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1973 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: Thursday and Friday February 1 and 2, 1973CharlottesvilleThursday and Friday April 5 and 6, 1973Clinch Valley College Wise, VirginiaThursday and Friday May 31 and June 1, 1973CharlottesvilleThursday and Friday October 25 and 26, 1973Charlottesville These dates are subject to review by the Board at the February 1973 meeting.

INVITATION OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------

The Board voted to accept the invitation of Clinch Valley College to meet at Wise, Virginia for the April 5 and 6, 1973 Meeting. Travel arrangements will be made so that Board members and their spouses can go to Wise.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRANCES NASH WATSON SCHOLARSHIP
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Architecture a Scholarship to be known as the Frances Nash Watson Scholarship. The Scholarship is to be awarded in accordance with the standing University policy governing such scholarships.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period July 1, 1971 to June 30, 1972" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

INSTITUTIONAL SELF-STUDY
------------------------

The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires its members to conduct an institutional self-study at intervals of approximately 10 years, and the last self-study was made in 1964.

Therefore, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the institutional self-study required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools be and it is hereby endorsed, and that the President is hereby authorized to provide for the conduct of the study beginning in January 1973.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE 1966 BOARD MANUAL
-------------------------------------------

An amendment to the 1966 Board Manual was proposed. As required by Sections 5.8 and 2.34 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966 the Executive Committee unanimously approved the proposed amendment by a telephone poll on November 8, 1972, and notice of the proposed amendment was included in the regular notice of the meeting sent to each member of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Sections 3.2 and 3.25 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors be revised to rename the Medical Committee, the Health Sciences Committee.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$190,850.59

Free service to Counties and Cities

235,212.90

\------------

Total

$426,063.49

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $426,063.49, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$190,850.59Free service to Counties and Cities235,212.90------------Total$426,063.49

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President expressed gratitude to Visitor Barrett for his continued generosity to the University of Virginia and acknowledged with thanks gifts and grants from many other sources.

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE BIRDWOOD PROPERTY
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that as a matter of policy no portion of the Birdwood Property be sold or rented.

LEASH RESOLUTION
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been informed of the fact that an inordinate number of stray dogs are frequenting the Grounds and present a serious danger to University students; andWHEREAS, a large number of licensed dogs are running at large on the University Grounds without being under the control of their owners and thus create a hazard to pedestrians and bicyclists;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that dog owners must keep their animals on a leash at all times on the University Grounds, and;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President of the University is hereby empowered to make reasonable regulations necessary to carry this resolution into execution.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGES IN THE NAMES OF DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced changes in the names of departments in the College of Arts and Sciences as follows:

Effective September 1, 1973, the Department of Sociology and Anthropology will be separated into two departments to be known as:

(a) Department of Sociology

(b) Department of Anthropology

WAGENHEIM MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP FUND
-----------------------------------

At its meeting on December 11, 1965, the Board established a Scholarship Fund in memory of Michael Lewis Wagenheim, who at the time of his death was a fourth year student in the College of Arts and Sciences. The scholarship was established through the efforts of the student's father, Mr. Jack I. Wagenheim, and his uncle, Mr. Michael B. Wagenheim, both of whom are alumni of the University of Virginia. Subsequently Mr. Jack I. Wagenheim died, and at the request of Mr. Michael B. Wagenheim, the Board adopted a resolution on June 3, 1966 changing the name of the scholarship to the Wagenheim Memorial Scholarship Fund in order that gifts to the fund might be for the purpose of memorializing both the father and the son.

On August 8, 1972, Mr. Michael B. Wagenheim died, and left in his Will a request that one-fourth of his residual estate be added to the fund, and that the Scholarship Fund be designated as being in memory of himself as well as the father and son.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Michael Lewis Wagenheim Scholarship Fund established on December 11, 1965, and renamed as the Wagenheim Memorial Scholarship on June 3, 1966, be and it is hereby designated to memorialize a devoted student, Mr. Michael Lewis Wagenheim, and also Jack I. Wagenheim, and Mr. Michael B. Wagenheim who were dedicated alumni of the University.

REPORT ON THE CHAFFIN MATTER
----------------------------

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr. reported on the settlement of the Chaffin suit. He advised that Mr. Walter Chaffin, a University Security Officer, was permitted to enroll as a student at Virginia Commonwealth University to study courses in Law Enforcement. The University agreed to pay his expenses. The estimated cost to the University will be $15,000.

Mr. Robert Buford pointed out that in the Chaffin suit, each member of the Board was named a defendant. Mr. Buford objected to the arrangement of a settlement prior to discussion with the named defendant. He urged that in all future litigation, no settlement should be agreed to by the University without consulting the individual defendants.

COMMUNICATION WITH THE BOARD
----------------------------

The Rector announced that he and the President are undertaking the study of ways to improve communication between the administration and the Board. It is anticipated that a further announcement about this will be made at the February meeting of the Board.

REPORT ON SECURITY
------------------

In response to a question by Mr. Warren B. French, Jr., the President reported on the major effort of the University to provide greater security for the University. Mr. Alford noted a change in the practices of the security force in the direction of using diplomacy as a first approach to security problems.

The President pointed out that the University is working closely with the City and County officials to improve security. Also, some $45,000 has been spent for lighting of the University Grounds. Seven additional positions have been provided for the Department of Security in order to strengthen the department.

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
--------------------------

Mr. Edwin Crawford discussed proposed legislation which will come before the General Assembly which will remove Boards of Visitors from the list of organizations exempt from the Virginia Freedom of Information Act. Mr. Crawford expressed the view that the measure is likely to be enacted. There was expression from Board members that committee meetings ought not to be open so that Board members can refine proposed resolutions and discuss them informally before presentation to a full Board meeting. Mr. Lawrence Lewis expressed the view that there is considerable merit in public meetings, and stated that he was not opposed to them.

REPORT ON THE THOMPSON BILL
---------------------------

Mr. Alford reported on a bill that is scheduled to come before the General Assembly at its forthcoming session which if adopted would authorize the unionization of state employees. He advised that the faculty at the University has shown no interest in the measure. He predicts that the bill has a good chance for approval by the General Assembly.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT FOR THE RENOVATION AND EXPANSION OF SCOTT STADIUM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Upon the recommendation of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, and on motion of Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Committee Chairman, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Finch-Heery Architects and Engineers be and it is hereby approved for the Scott Stadium project.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

A letter from Mr. Corbette King addressed to the President enclosing a resolution made by the Board of Trustees of the Student Aid Foundation was read to the Board. The resolution requested responses about the athletic programs of the University. It was agreed that in order for the matter to be given full and careful consideration, it will be discussed at the February meeting. Both the President and the Rector will write to Mr. King in the meantime. The matter was referred to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee for further study and for recommendations.

Mr. Wright Harrison advised the Board that the Student Council had approved a grant of $45.00 to the Gay Student Union, and that the award had been protested by students. It appears that the question of making the award will be taken to court. In the discussion that followed, it was pointed out that the Board's guide lines for the distribution of money from Student Activities Funds must be clearly stated if they are to withstand court tests.

Mr. Potter moved that for 1973-74, the allocation of funds from student activities fees should be made by a committee of three students (the President of the Raven Society, the President of ODK, and the President of the College) and six non-administrative faculty members appointed by the President. The motion failed, in favor of a motion to appoint a committee to study the procedure and standards for distribution of Student Activities Funds, and to report to the Board at the February meeting. This motion was adopted. The Rector appointed Mr. Wright Harrison, Mr. Donald Santarelli, and Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson to serve on the committee. President Shannon urged that student input be sought. He expressed appreciation for the earnest effort of the students to reach a fair solution to the problems posed by the allocation.

Mr. Wright Harrison then presented a request from the President and Vice-President of the Student Council that the Council President and Vice-President be invited to attend the full meetings of the Board of Visitors. In the discussion that followed, it was noted that the legislature may soon open all meetings of Boards of Visitors to the public. In view of this, and for reasons set forth in 1968 by a special committee appointed by the President to study the problem, it was decided that the Student Council representatives will continue their participation in meetings of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, but that the request to attend full Board meetings is to be denied, and that the Board will continue its present policy with respect to its meetings. It was further agreed that the Rector will write to Mr. James Rinaca to explain this position. In the discussion it was made clear that the Board appreciates the counsel given by students at the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee meetings.

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the Committee had approved the Athletic Financial Report. He also reported that a decision has been reached to sell the timber at Seward Forest, and to retain the land and see that it is reforested. This action is subject to approval by the Governor.

Dr. Hartwell Harrison, Chairman of the Medical Committee, reported that the Medical Center has an interest in acquiring the Towers Continuing Care Center. Upon recommendation of the Finance Committee, the Board approved a motion to have the Continuing Care Center appraised, and to authorize negotiations for the purchase of the property. Mr. W. Wright Harrison abstained from voting on the motion.

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reviewed discussions of proposed legislation that would bring about closer coordination of state institutions of higher education. He expressed the view that it is not now likely that a "superboard" will be formed to govern the Virginia state institutions. The President, who opposes the superboard concept, warned that a superboard proposal might still be considered by the General Assembly at the forthcoming session.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Michael D. Appleby as Assistant Professor of Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Margaret M. Boland as Assistant Professor of French and of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. RONALD C. VANOVER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Ronald C. Vanover as Assistant Professor of Business, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on October 13, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Chancellor and Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective July 1, 1972.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Donald D. Curtis as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

On motion, the meeting was then adjourned at 4:15 p.m.

RCB:jb
