---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1972'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 3, 1972
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:04 p.m. on February 3, 1972 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., Hugh Scott, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Visitors William S. Potter and Donald E. Santarelli. Messrs. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of December 11, 1971, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert Bierstedt as Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert D. Cross as Professor of History, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. William B. Eddy as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Dr. Kemal H. Elbirlik as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of .Miss Kledus J. Henderson as Instructor in Nursing, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 2, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Michael A. Hoffman as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Miss Joan Leiby as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for the period January 17, 1972, through June 30, 1972, at an annual salary of .Dr. Jacob A. Lohr as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Michael H. Prosser as Professor of Speech, effective April 1, 1972, at a session salary of .Dr. Luigi Rossini as Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, for the period April 15, 1972, through July 15, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Melvin W. Siegel as Lecturer in Engineering Physics, for the period December 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 16, 1972, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. James O. West as Instructor in Physical Education, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. RODNEY NEEDHAM
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Rodney Needham as Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1971, as approved by the Board on June 4, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert W. Artinian as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Paul Barolsky as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Malcolm Bell, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Spencer C. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. David G. Bromley as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert E. Cape as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Kenneth W. Clarkson as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. F. Jason Crigler as Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Daniel T. Devereux as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Charles E. Echols as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson as Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Charles S. Green, III, as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James A. Hardell as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Stephen T. Hedetniemi as Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Gerald A. Heeger as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. L. Samuel Johnson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Donald J. Kirwan as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Jen-Shih Lee as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Michael L. McCartney as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Michael W. Moohr as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Aaron Morrell as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Simon Pepper as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. H. Owen Porter as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Joseph A. Porter as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Mary E. Reres as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Frederick S. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Gerard J. Roubichou as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. David L. Rubin as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert A. Smoak as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert S. Stepleman as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Arthur G. Stevens, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. George C. Theodoridis as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Carl O. Trindle as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Michael G. Wilkins as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Frank J. F. Wordick as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Barbara Y. Howard, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiation Chemistry), for three years, effective January 1, 1972.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Michael H. Prosser, Professor of Speech, without pay, for five months, effective April 1, 1972, to complete obligation at Indiana University.Mr. Alan H. Strahler, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-half time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, to devote time to writing a college level text.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Malcolm Bell, III, from Acting Assistant Professor of Art, to Assistant Professor of Art, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974.Mr. John J. Callahan, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period December 1, 1971, through August 31, 1974.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Tom G. Kessinger, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Laurence C. Pettit, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Gilbert W. Roy, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chinese, to Assistant Professor of Chinese, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective November 16, 1971.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Associate Professor of Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1972.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, Associate Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1972.Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1972.Mr. Herbert H. Winkler, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of , effective January 1, 1972.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert L. Ellison as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, effective December 31, 1971, to devote full time to research and teaching.Dr. Norman J. Knorr, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, effective January 31, 1972, to accept the position as Vice-Chairman and Professor, University of Texas Medical School.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William W. Abbot as Chairman, Department of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert Bierstedt as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Harold M. Carron as Acting Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology, for the period February 1, 1972, through July 31, 1972.Mr. Robert D. Cross as Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. H. Grant Goodell as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1976.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, as Acting Dean, School of Medicine, for the period March 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Charles A. Plesums as Manager of Programming and Systems, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Michael H. Prosser as Chairman, Department of Speech and Drama, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Richard T. Selden as Chairman, Department of Economics, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Director of University Development, for one year, effective February 16, 1972.Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., as Assistant Dean, Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James O. West as Assistant to the Director of University Athletic Programs, for the period January 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972.

DEATH OF MR. JAMES S. MILLER, JR.
---------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. ORLAND E. WHITE
----------------------------

FACULTY SALARY SCALEGeneral Faculty Salary Scale Effective July 1, 1972
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Beginning Step

Increment

Professor

$16,000

$500

Associate Professor

$13,000

$500

Assistant Professor

$10,500

$500

Instructor

$ 7,200

$400

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the general faculty salary scale for the academic session, as set forth below, be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1972: General Faculty Salary Scale Effective July 1, 1972RankBeginning StepIncrementProfessor$16,000$500Associate Professor$13,000$500Assistant Professor$10,500$500Instructor$ 7,200$400

ANNUAL SALARY SCALE FOR THE SCHOOL OF NURSING
---------------------------------------------

Current

Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate

Increment

Normal Entrance Rate

Increment

Professor

$16,000

$1,000

$16,000

$500

Associate Professor

$12,750

$ 750

$13,000

$500

Assistant Professor

$10,500

$ 500

$10,500

$500

Instructor

$ 8,000

$ 400

$ 8,000

$400

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Annual Salary Scale for the School of Nursing as shown below be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1972: CurrentProposedNormal Entrance RateIncrementNormal Entrance RateIncrementProfessor$16,000$1,000$16,000$500Associate Professor$12,750$ 750$13,000$500Assistant Professor$10,500$ 500$10,500$500Instructor$ 8,000$ 400$ 8,000$400

ANNUAL SALARY SCALE FOR SCHOOL OF MEDICINE PRECLINICAL FACULTY
--------------------------------------------------------------

Current

Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate

Increment

Normal Entrance Rate

Increment

Department Head

$19,500

$1,500

$21,000

$500

Professor

$18,000

$1,500

$19,000

$500

Associate Professor

$14,400

$ 900

$16,000

$500

Assistant Professor

$12,000

$ 600

$13,000

$500

Instructor

$ 9,500

$ 500

$10,000

$500

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Annual Salary Scale for Preclinical Faculty at the School of Medicine as shown below be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1972: CurrentProposedNormal Entrance RateIncrementNormal Entrance RateIncrementDepartment Head$19,500$1,500$21,000$500Professor$18,000$1,500$19,000$500Associate Professor$14,400$ 900$16,000$500Assistant Professor$12,000$ 600$13,000$500Instructor$ 9,500$ 500$10,000$500

AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE AND SELL FACULTY MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS
--------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Powell Davis, President of the Investment Corporation of Virginia, the principal underwriter of the Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds and Mr. Harry Frazier, III, of the firm of Hunton, Williams, Gay and Gibson, the University's bond counsel, were introduced. Mr. Davis and Mr. Frazier explained aspects of the issue known as "$9,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds, Series of 1972" (the Bond issue).

Mr. Wright Harrison, in compliance with Section 2.1-352 of the Virginia Code of 1950 as amended, a provision of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act, read into the record a statement indicating that the Virginia National Bank with which he is associated will be one of the Bond issue buyers. A portion of the bonds will be purchased as a bank investment in the name of The Virginia National Bank, and a portion will be purchased as an investment by the Trust Department of the Bank as a fiduciary for others. He further stated that The Virginia National Bank will serve as trustee for the Bond issue. Mr. Wright Harrison thereby disqualified himself from voting or otherwise participating in any official action by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia with respect to the Bond issue.

With the exception of Mr. Wright Harrison who abstained from voting, the following resolution was unanimously adopted by all members of the Board of Visitors present: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the University) is authorized by Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the University's Board of Visitors (the Board) and by and with the approval of the Governor, to borrow money and issue its bonds and secure payment thereof by the pledge of any stocks, notes or bonds held by the University as part of its endowment funds and which are secured by a lien upon real estate; andWHEREAS, Section 103 (d) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, excepts from the definition of an "arbitrage bond" any obligation "issued as a part of an issue substantially all of the proceeds of which are reasonably expected to be used to provide permanent financing for real property used or to be used for residential purposes for the personnel of an educational institution (within the meaning of Section 151 (e) (4)) which grants baccalaureate or higher degrees, or to replace funds which were so used, and . . . the yield on which over the term of the issue is not reasonably expected, at the time of the issuance of such issue, to be substantially lower than the yield on obligations acquired or to be acquired in providing such financing"; andWHEREAS, there are held among the endowment funds of the University notes or bonds secured by mortgages or deeds of trusts on real estate used to provide permanent financing for real property used for residential purposes for the personnel of the University on which the aggregate unpaid principal balance is not less than $9,000,000 and the University desires to issue its $9,000,000 Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds, Series of 1972 (the Bonds) to replace the endowment funds so used and to provide funds to be used in the future for such purposes; andWHEREAS, the University desires to transfer from its endowment funds to a trustee such notes or bonds have an aggregate unpaid principal balance of not less than $11,500,000 to be held by the trustee pursuant to the hereinafter described Indenture as security for the Bonds; andWHEREAS, there has been presented to this meeting the form of the following instruments or agreements which the University proposes to execute to carry out the transactions described above, copies of which instruments and agreements shall be filed with the Permanent Minutes of the meeting:(a) Indenture between the University and Virginia National Bank, as Trustee, dated as of February 1, 1972 (the Indenture);(b) Purchase Contract between the University and Investment Corporation of Virginia, Craigie Incorporated, and Wheat, First Securities, Inc. as managers of a group of underwriters (the Underwriters), dated February 3, 1972, whereby the Underwriters offer to purchase the Bonds (the Purchase Contract);(c) The Official Statement dated as of the date hereof, describing the University, its faculty mortgage program, the terms of the Bonds and the security therefor (the Official Statement);BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:(1) In order to replace endowment funds of the University used to provide permanent financing for real property used for residential purposes for the personnel of the University, there are hereby authorized to be issued $9,000,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Faculty Housing Revenue Bonds, Series of 1972 (the Bonds). The Bonds shall be dated February 1, 1972, shall mature in installments on February 1, in each of the years 1975 to 1987, inclusive, and on February 1, 1997, shall bear interest payable semi-annually at rates, shall be payable as to principal and interest at the principal office of Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia or First National City Bank, New York, New York, shall be issued in either coupon or registered form shall be registrable and exchangeable and shall be redeemable prior to maturity, all as more fully set forth in the Purchase Contract and the Indenture. The Rector or President and Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the University are hereby authorized and directed to have the Bonds prepared, to execute the Bonds, to deliver them to the Trustee for authentication and to cause the Bonds so executed and authenticated to be delivered to or for the account of the Underwriters upon payment of the purchase price.2. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the University, secured by the Indenture and by a pledge of notes or bonds secured by mortgages or deeds of trust on real estate and funds as described and provided in the Indenture. The Rector or President and Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the University are hereby authorized and directed to complete the Indenture, to make such insertions therein as shall conform the Indenture to the terms and conditions provided in the Purchase Contract, to execute, acknowledge and deliver the Indenture, so completed, to the Trustee and to provide for the transfer pursuant to the Indenture from the University's endowment funds to the Trustee of such notes or bonds having an aggregate unpaid principal balance of not less than $11,500,000.3. Because of the special nature and complexity of the financing and the security for the Bonds, it was determined by the Administration of the University and the Finance Committee of the Board to be in the best interests of the University to negotiate the sale of the Bonds with underwriters who could plan and develop the terms and conditions for the Bonds and the security therefor. This determination is hereby ratified and reaffirmed. It is hereby determined that the Purchase Contract is in the best interests of the University and the Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriters at the price, upon the terms and conditions and upon the basis of the representations set forth therein. The Purchase Contract is hereby accepted and the Rector or President and Secretary or Assistant Secretary are hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Purchase Contract to the Underwriters.4. The Official Statement is hereby adopted and approved and the Rector or President is hereby authorized to execute and deliver the Official Statement to the Underwriters. The Board hereby authorizes and approves the use by the Underwriters of the Official Statement, the information contained therein and the documents referred to therein, in connection with the sale of the Bonds.The Indenture, the Purchase Contract and the Official Statement shall be in substantially the forms submitted to this meeting and the Bonds shall be in substantially the form provided in the Indenture. Such form of Indenture, Purchase Contract, Official Statement and Bonds are hereby approved, with such omissions, insertions and changes as may be approved by the officers executing them, their execution to constitute conclusive evidence of their approval of any such omissions, insertions and changes;6. The Executive Committee of the Board is hereby authorized and empowered to take any action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization and sale of the Bonds, including, but not limited to, agreement to amendments to the terms of the Bonds and form of the Indenture, Purchase Contract and Official Statement that may be deemed to require approval by this Board.7. The officers of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary by them in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the undertaking described in the Indenture.8. All other acts of the officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this resolution and in furtherance of the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the undertaking described in the Indenture are hereby approved and confirmed.

Following the adoption of the resolution, the Rector signed the purchase contract, and a check in the amount of 1% of the $9,000,000 amount as a good faith payment was presented to the University by Mr. Powell Davis.

Messrs. Davis and Frazier left the meeting at this point.

REPORT ON FACULTY AND UNIVERSITY RELATIONS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised that after a long and careful study and review the University Senate has approved a set of policies for faculty-University relation set forth in a document entitled "Faculty and University Relations Policies and Procedures". In order for the Board of Visitors to be conversant with these procedures, copies of the document have been distributed to members of the Board, and Mr. Richard Speidel, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Faculty Relations, discussed the policies and procedures and responded to questions at the Board's Educational Policy Committee meeting on February 2, 1972.

The President stated that hearing no objections from the Educational Policy Committee, he would officially approve and institute the provisions set forth in "Faculty and University Relations Policies and Procedures" with the understanding that these procedures do not alter the statutory powers and responsibilities of the Board of Visitors nor the appeal procedure to the Board of Visitors as outlined in the Manual of the Board.

RESOLUTION ON CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that as required under paragraph 22 d (2) and otherwise in the Industrial Security Manual, Department of Defense, the following persons be and they are hereby specifically and properly designated as the MANAGERIAL GROUP having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of User Agency Contracts:Mr. David A. Shannon, Vice-President and Provost (Alternate Signatory)Mr. Vincent Shea, Vice-President for Business and Finance (Alternate Signatory)Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., University Comptroller (Principal Signatory)Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Associate Provost for Research (Alternate Signatory)BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors does hereby delegate all of its duties and responsibilities pertaining to the protection of classified information to the Managerial Group named above. The Board of Visitors shall not require, shall not have, and can be effectively excluded from access to all classified information in the possession of the University and the members do not occupy positions that would enable them to affect adversely the University's policies or practices in the performance of classified contracts or programs for the User Agencies.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program. In his report, he expressed particular satisfaction with the final approval by the Governor of the contract for construction of the Law School. He also reported that the Nursing Education Building and the School of Education Building are nearing completion.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$100,224.90

Free service to Counties and Cities

168,964.63

\------------

Total

$269,189.53

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 2104, 2105, 2108, 2109, 2111, and 2112, aggregating $269,189.53, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$100,224.90Free service to Counties and Cities168,964.63------------Total$269,189.53

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

In his remarks regarding gifts and grants, the President paid tribute to Mr. C. Waller Barrett for his continuing generosity to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LEONA I. AND LINTON MASON MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIPS
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, scholarships to be known as the Leona I. and Linton Mason Memorial Scholarships, which are to be administered in a manner acceptable to both the University and the trustees of the Leona I. Mason Trust.

SOUTHERN WELDING BOND ISSUE
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is authorized by Section 23-30.02 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board of Visitors and by and with the approval of the Governor, to borrow money for the acquisition of real estate and to issue its bonds and secure payment thereof by a lien on such real estate; andWHEREAS, in connection with the improvement of its Medical Center, the University of Virginia has entered into a contract for the purchase of certain properties located in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, and more commonly known as Southern Welding, such contract providing that $430,000 of the $530,000 purchase price is to be paid by the University issuing pursuant to Section 23-30.02 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, and delivering to Sellers certain serial bonds as more fully described below;BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that pursuant to Section 23-30.02 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, there are hereby authorized to be issued and sold, with the approval of the Governor, 20 serial bonds of the University, in the amount of $430,000 secured by a vendor's lien upon the real property conveyed to the University, such bonds to be dated January 1, 1972, numbered (1) through (20) inclusive, each of which has a principal face amount of $21,500 and bears interest at the rate of 4 percent per annum. Interest payments will be due semi-annually on July 1 and January 1 of each year in which interest is payable, the first of such payments to be due July 1, 1972. One of the twenty consecutively numbered bonds will become due and payable on January 1 of each year, the first of such bonds to be payable on January 1, 1973. Such bonds and the interest thereon shall be paid from the William J. Rucker Memorial Fund, a part of the University's endowment funds.

GUMPRICH ESTATE
---------------

The President reported on a bequest to the Hospital of the residuary estate of Mrs. Bertha H. Gumprich for the provision of renal dialysis services or other treatment for kidney diseases. The Executor has submitted an accounting of his administration of this estate and requested that the University execute a Release and Refunding Bond as required under New Jersey law. Thereafter, the estate may be distributed to the Hospital.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either is hereby authorized and empowered to execute and make such instruments as are necessary to complete the administration of the estate of Mrs. Bertha H. Gumprich, deceased, including without limitation, a Release and Refunding Bond as required under New Jersey law, such instruments to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel, and to do whatever other acts as are necessary to complete such administration.

BURKETT MILLER MATTER
---------------------

Following a discussion of a proposal by Mr. Burkett Miller, the Board resolved to approve in principle the draft "Agreement for the Investigation of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs", forwarded under the date of December 10, 1971. Following the signing of a definitive agreement by Mr. Burkett Miller, the Rector, and the President, the Board of Visitors will be informed of the details of the definitive agreement.

AUTHORIZATION FOR NEGOTIATION FOR TITLE SEARCH FOR PROPERTY LYING ON BOTH SIDES OF PLEASURE HOUSE COVE, SOUTH OF SHORE ROAD, ROUTE 60 WEST OF LYNNHAVEN BAY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. W. Wright Harrison advised the Board that Mr. Joseph V. Anderson of the firm of Anderson, Day and Sums has information that leads him to believe that the University may be the owner of a tract of land located on both sides of Pleasure House Cove, South of Shore Road, Route 60, and West of Lynnhaven Bay.

With a single dissenting vote, the Board resolved to authorize Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch and Mr. Vincent Shea to negotiate with Mr. Anderson concerning the matter.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported that the Committee endorsed the resolution recommending independent status for Mary Washington College. She commended the President for his sustained efforts to support the Committee in its attempt to consider fully the issue in time for action by the General Assembly at the current session. She pointed out that the President, accompanied by Dr. Kendig and Mr. Bice, had attended a briefing session on the matter conducted by the State Council of Higher Education on January 5, 1972. She concluded her report by thanking her Committee and the Board for their generous assistance and support throughout her tenure.

Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, advised that a report on Graduate Arts and Sciences admissions was presented to the Committee by Dean Dexter Whitehead. The report reveals that the demand for admission to the Graduate School is strong. He also reported that during the meeting of the Committee the Rector commended the President for his efforts in setting limits on undergraduate enrollment. The President set limits on entering undergraduate student enrollment, stressing opportunity for the enrollment of transfer students.

A report on the activities of the Committee on the Future of the University by Vice-President David Shannon, scheduled for presentation at the Educational Policy Committee was postponed to the full Board meeting because of the general interest of the Board in that report.

Vice-President Shannon, Chairman of the Committee on the Future of the University, an administrative committee, is actively re-examining the enrollment projections made last March. Three work groups are investigating the projections. One of these is studying the internal situation, stressing the importance of determining how many faculty members will be required to achieve excellence, another group is working to determine the effect of enrollment on the environment, and a third group is studying what has happened at other universities that have grown to determine whether or not the changes have been beneficial. A report of the Committee's findings will be made to the President.

Vice-President Shannon then reported on the recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee on a School of Public Affairs, headed by Mr. Frederick Mosher. The committee recommends the establishment of a graduate school for public affairs, offering a two year masters degree. The school would serve as a liaison with the Federal Executive Institute, would be interdisciplinary for both research and instruction, would be involved in comprehensive health care planning, and certain other functions. It would be a small school of 125-175 students. Vice-President Shannon gave his report to the Board for information at this time, advising that though a decision as to whether to continue planning for the establishment of the school has not yet been made, he is inclined to go forward with the plans.

Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, advised that his Committee had approved the preliminary plans for Law and Graduate Business Housing. Also reported was approval of a proposal to purchase the Cochran Property near the Children's Rehabilitation Center and receipt of a report that the bids on the Law School were approved after modifications were made. The Committee heard from Mr. Richard Shutts, Business Manager, a detailed report on the proposed pay parking plan.

In the absence of Mr. William S. Potter, Mr. Wright Harrison reported as Chairman pro tem of the Finance Committee that the Finance Committee is indebted to Mr. A. J. G. Priest and Mr. Harold Young who performed valued service to the Board of Visitors in the sale of the Hobbs Gas Company. The Secretary was directed to write letters thanking Mr. Priest and Mr. Young on behalf of the Board.

Mr. Harrison reported that the Committee approved strongly the appointment of Mr. Ward Sims as the Director of Development. Among the other items reported was the authorization by the Finance Committee of the sale of $17,000 worth of jewelry from the Christian Estate.

Dr. Edwin L. Kending, Chairman of the Medical Committee, reported that the graduate programs in Nursing are developing in a most satisfactory manner. There are eight students enrolled in each of the majors. He also reported that the proposed psychiatric institute funded by the Department of Mental Hygiene and Hospitals is to be located in the University of Virginia Medical Center. He reported that the Virginia Chapter of the American Cancer Society has established a cancer professorship at the Medical College of Virginia and one at the University of Virginia and that Dr. Shelton Horsley has been nominated for the Chair. He further reported that the prepaid health plan for the University employees will cost $39.16 per month, and that the final approval must come from the Legal Adviser and the Vice-President for Business and Finance.

The Rector thanked Dr. Kendig for his report, and for his outstanding service to the Medical Committee, to the Board of Visitors, and to the University.

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, reported that his Committee had heard a report from Dr. James Camp, Director of Student Health. In view of the expressions of interest in the report, Mr. Harrison requested that copies of the report be mailed to members of the Board.

Mr. Harrison reported that the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee heard an excellent report from two impressive students, Mr. Ross A. Howell and Mr. Terry A. Dan who are co-chairmen of the Residence House Counselors. Mr. Harrison expressed high praise for the constructive work of the Residence House Counselors.

A discussion of the forthcoming budget hearings before the House Appropriations and Senate Finance Committees of the General Assembly of Virginia followed. Vice-President Crawford advised that some aspects of the budget may be questioned at the hearings. He expressed the view that the testimony of Mr. Philip Chabot, a member of Student Council, may have serious reverberations. An opponent of University enrollment growth, Mr. Chabot testified before the House Appropriations and Senate Finance Committees of the General Assembly of Virginia on January 25, 1972.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

In a concluding statement the Rector congratulated Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, on his graduation and upon his appointment as Clerk to Mr. Justice Powell of the United States Supreme Court, and expressed satisfaction in learning that Mr. Wilkinson will continue his service on the Board.

The Rector expressed the gratitude of the University to Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Dr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., and Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall. He said that the dedication of these three retiring Board members had meant a great deal to the University, and that their service was deeply appreciated.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Peter J. Armbrust as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), part-time, for the second semester of the 1971-72 session, effective January 16, 1972, at a total semester salary of

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Frederick C. Landis as Instructor in Classics (Latin), part-time, for the second semester of the 1971-72 session, effective January 16, 1972, at a total semester salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Joseph Bozicevic, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, with half pay, to do research and study in Russia.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Thomas S. Turgeon, Associate Professor of Dramatic Arts and Acting Chairman of the Department, effective June 15, 1972, to accept an appointment as Associate Professor of Drama at Kenyon College (including the assumption of the chairmanship of their department upon the retirement of the present chairman).

RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING INDEPENDENT STATUS FOR MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia is proud of the advancement of Mary Washington College to its present state of excellence as a component part of the University, evidenced by its offering of undergraduate degree programs in 33 fields, by its strong faculty, fine library, and handsome physical plant, and by the granting to the College in 1971 of a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa; andWHEREAS the Board is willing to continue in this productive relationship with the College, but recognizes that certain advantages may result hereafter from separate status for the College; especially in view of the recent admission of men and the expectancy of service to the urban corridor as envisioned by the College's recent Self-Study; andWHEREAS the Board resolved on December 11, 1971, to request the State Council of Higher Education to study and advise the Board concerning the future relationship of Mary Washington College to the University; andWHEREAS the State Council, while recognizing the successful role played by the University in the development of the College, reaffirmed its policy of establishing separate governing boards for four-year State institutions of higher education; andWHEREAS the State Council of Higher Education adopted on January 6, 1972, a resolution recommending to the Board of Visitors, the Governor, and the General Assembly of Virginia, a separate Board of Visitors for Mary Washington College, "believing that under a separate Board, the College can more effectively serve the Commonwealth in the urban corridor of Virginia, particularly considering the elimination of a women-only admission policy and the recent admission of men";NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a recommendation be and it is hereby made to the Governor and General Assembly of Virginia that legislative action be taken to establish Mary Washington College as a public institution of higher education of the Commonwealth separate from the University of Virginia, effective not later than July 1, 1972.Following the adoption of the resolution, Chancellor Simpson expressed his view that the resolution was a gracious one, and that he was gratified by the thoughtful handling of the matter by the Board of Visitors.

DEED OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE PROPERTY TO THE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Virginia Department of Highways proposes to construct, reconstruct, operate and maintain a portion of Alternate Route 1 over certain tracts of land owned by the University and occupied by Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg. The University has been requested to convey to the Department the land and accompanying rights of way necessary for this project.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED, that in accordance with Section 2.1-8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby approves of the conveyance to the Virginia Department of Highways of certain tracts of land and accompanying rights of way for the construction, reconstruction, operation, and maintenance of Alternate Route 1, State Highway Project 7001-111-103, RW-201. A more complete description of the property, which is currently occupied by Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg, shall be set forth in the deed of conveyance.RESOLVED FURTHER, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a deed of conveyance granting such property to the Virginia Department of Highways, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board, be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such deed and to attest the same; provided, however, that such deed when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete this conveyance.RESOLVED FURTHER, that the officials of Mary Washington be instructed to relay to the Virginia Department of Highways the concern of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all proper care and precaution be taken to preserve the aesthetics of the area and that there be no unnecessary removal of trees, shrubs or turf and that the Virginia Department of Highways carry out its agreement to replace where possible such trees, shrubs or turf removed during construction.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Bernice T. Radovich as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .

RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING INDEPENDENT STATUS FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------

After extensive discussion, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors, responding to the needs of the people of Northern Virginia and the Commonwealth at large, and to the gift of a tract of land from the City of Fairfax, founded George Mason College in 1957 as a two-year division of the University and since then has fostered its development to a four-year institution, fully accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, and offering the master's degree in certain fields; andWHEREAS under the aegis of the University at Charlottesville the College has become a flourishing institution offering undergraduate degrees in 22 fields and an increasing number of programs leading to the master's degree; andWHEREAS further gifts of land from the Counties of Fairfax and Arlington and the Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church have made possible the development of an approved Master Site Plan for the accommodation of an enrollment of 15,000 students by 1985; andWHEREAS the Board takes pride in the achievements of George Mason College, and is willing to continue to participate in developing it; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors is gratified by the recommendations for increased financial support for George Mason College by the Governor and the General Assembly of Virginia; andWHEREAS the State Council of Higher Education has reaffirmed its policy that State four-year institutions of higher education be operated under separate governing boards and has requested this Board to re-examine its relationship to George Mason College; andWHEREAS the Advisory Board of George Mason College to the President of the University has recommended the establishment of the College as a separate State institution of the Commonwealth of Virginia to be known as "George Mason University"; andWHEREAS the present Chancellor of George Mason College will retire on July 1, 1972, and the College will benefit from additional time as a new institution to select an administrative head;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a recommendation be and it is hereby made to the Governor and the General Assembly of Virginia that legislative action be taken to establish George Mason College as a State institution of higher education of the Commonwealth separate from the University of Virginia, effective March 1, 1972, or as soon thereafter as is feasible, in order that the College, as a separate institution, may undertake the selection of a president at an early date.

NAMING OF THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING (NORTH) AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The George Mason College Advisory Board and the University Committee on Names had recommended that the Administration Building (North) at George Mason College be named in honor of John Norville Gibson Finley, the first director of George Mason College.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Administration Building (North) at George Mason College be and it is hereby named John Norville Gibson Finley Building.

FEE FOR STUDENTS IN THE MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that contingent upon approval by the State Council of Higher Education of the Baccalaureate Program in Medical Technology at George Mason College, students participating in the hospital phase of the program will pay a fee in the amount of $15.00 for the 12 month period.

DEGREE PROGRAM FOR GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree program be and it is hereby approved for Geroge Mason College, effective September 1972:Bachelor of Science with a Major in Economics

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRESOLUTION AUTHORIZING PLANNING FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE AS AN INSTITUTION SEPARATE FROM THE UNIVERSITY AT A FUTURE DATE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, in co-operation with residents of Wise County and Southwest Virginia, founded Clinch Valley College in 1954 as a two-year branch of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS the College was advanced to a four-year degree granting institution in 1968; andWHEREAS the Board is proud of the development of Clinch Valley College into a substantial institution, a fully accredited member of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, awarding bachelor's degrees in 12 fields, including professional programs in business and education, with a modern, effective, and attractive physical plant and sound plans for further strength and diversity of instructional programs as the College moves to fulfill the educational needs of Southwest Virginia and of the Commonwealth; andWHEREAS the State Council of Higher Education has recognized the successful role of the University in expanding higher educational opportunity in the Commonwealth through developing four-year institutions which have grown in service to the State and to particular geographical regions; andWHEREAS the State Council on January 6, 1972, reaffirmed its policy of establishing separate governing boards for four-year State institutions of higher education; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors is willing to continue its constructive relationship with the College, but recognizes that certain advantages may result hereafter from separate status for the College;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University and Clinch Valley College plan for and seek separate status for the College under a separate governing board as soon as such action appears to be in the best interests of the College and upon the recommendation of the local Advisory Committee and the request of the authorities of the College.

DEGREE PROGRAMS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree programs be and they are hereby approved for Clinch Valley College, effective August 1972:(a) Bachelor of Science with a major in Biology(b) Bachelor of Science with a major in Chemistry(c) Bachelor of Science with a major in Mathematics(d) Bachelor of Science with a major in Business and Public Administration

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:42 p.m.

RCB:jb
