---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1973'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 6, 1973
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:34 p.m. in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: Visitor W. Wright Harrison. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Kenneth R. Crispell, and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of February 2, 1973 previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Lillian R. Altree as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. David M. Barton as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $.Dr. James R. Batten as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period March 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973.Dr. Anne C. Brower as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective April 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Henry R. Burt as Lecturer in City Planning, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $Dr. Albert B. Butler as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Miss Janice M. Carlisle as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alfred L. Cobbs as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Philip D. Cooper as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective February 1, 1974, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mary Embry as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for the period January 1, 1973, through May 31, 1973. Mrs. Embry wishes to spend her sabbatical here.Dr. William S. Erwin, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Daniel J. Flanigan as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Miss Joan C. Franks as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $Mr. Larry W. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Dr. Vincent J. Giuliano as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James P. Graham, IV, as Instructor in Landscape Architecture, for one year, effective February 1, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. John T. Hackett as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Joseph A. Leistyna as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period March 1, 1973 through June 30, 1973, at no salary from the University.Lieutenant Alfred S. Lilliendahl as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective September 1973.Dr. Robert Q. Marston as Scholar-in-Residence, Medical School, for the period May 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974, at an annual salary of $.Mr. H. Clifton McCleskey as Professor of Government, effective June 1, 1973, at a session salary of $23,000, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Michael P. Murray as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Austin E. Quigley as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Wallace P. Ritchie, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles L. Ross as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Simon Rottenberg as Professor of Law, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Norbert Samuelson as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Dr. Donald B. Sanders as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective January 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ward R. Seguin as Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-half time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $Mr. Craig R. Smith as Associate Professor of Speech, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. William B. Spong as Scholar-in-Residence, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $.Major Thomas A. Sydes as Associate Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective July 1973.Dr. Kuldeep Teja as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective February 16, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Francis L. Utley as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Dr. Karl A. Western as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective February 1, 1973, at no salary from the University.Mr. John H. Whittaker as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. THEODORE CAPLOW AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Theodore Caplow be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. LLOYD A FALLERS
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Lloyd A. Fallers, as Professor of Anthropology, as approved by the Board on October 13, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Brian M. Austin as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Susan E. Bloomberg as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Martha S. Carpenter as Associate Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Frederick M. Denny as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Thomas S. Edwards as Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Carroll A. Gardner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Barbara A. Graham as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Larry Gibson as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Barbara Y. Howard as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973.Mrs. Barbara Y. Howard as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Mary Catherine Huey as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. George A. Hurt as Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1973.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Student Health Physician, for one year, effective August 1, 1973.Mr. Terry E. MacDougall as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Minor M. Markle, III, as Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Joseph A. McKinney as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. David L. Phillips as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Edwin L. Rushia as Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Eugene E. Ruyle as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Heraliwala L. Seneviratne as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973. Mr. Seneviratne served as Assistant Professor of Sociology and Anthropology during the 1972-73 session.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Lenore Street as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Lynn B. Tipson as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert L. Vickery, Jr., as Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. James E. Washington as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF DR. PATRICIA M. ANDREWS
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Dr. Patricia M. Andrews, as approved by the Board on February 2, 1973, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

CORRECTION IN THE TERM OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROGER A. RYDIN
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Roger A. Rydin, as approved by the Board on February 2, 1973, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Roger A. Rydin as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective September 1, 1973.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Josef J. Barton, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alexander W. Bell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Dr. Armistead P. Booker, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Roger P. Bristol, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, to Associate Professor, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Gerald Cook, Associate Professor, to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Miss Lorna G. Cooper, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bascom S. Deaver, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert Dolan, Associate Professor, to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $Miss Lois Drewer, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Hoyt N. Duggan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. James C. Dunstan, Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. John R. Faulkner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Reginald H. Garrett, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Miss Vesta L. Gordon, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Russell N. Grimes, Associate Professor, to Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. George B. Hess, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. D. Brock Hornby, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. John S. Horner, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alan D. Howard, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Douglas P. Howard, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald F. Hunt, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Commerce, effective July 1, 1973, at a session salary of $22,000, plus 20 percent for summer work and $1,100 for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Miss Cornelia A. Kelley, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Tom G. Kessinger, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Jacqueline F. Leavitt, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Paul Martick, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald L. Martin, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Woodford D. McClellan, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter L. Newsome, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Henry R. Odell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Clinton E. Parker, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kenneth G. Peterson, Associate Professor and Associate Librarian, Alderman Library, to Professor and Associate Librarian, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $Mrs. Angelika S. Powell, Instructor, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $Mr. David E. Powell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $Mr. Herbert C. Richards, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frederick S. Richardson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. George Roland, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Marion W. Ross, Lecturer in Anthropology, one-third time, and in French, one-fourth time, to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, one-third time, and in French, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Walter B. Ross, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. James L. Rovnyak, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. William H. Runge, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, to Associate Professor, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Walter Sablinsky, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. William C. Saslaw, Associate Professor, to Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harold R. Strang, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, to Associate Professor, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Carl O. Trindle, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald L. Walker, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gerald Wallace, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. John C. Coleman, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as a Fellow in Law and Economics at the University of Chicago.Mr. Steven J. Fox, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research and complete a novel and short stories now in progress.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr., Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. Tom G. Kessinger, Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a visiting appointment at the University of Pennsylvania.Mr. Verdel A. Kolve, Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research as a winner of the Harbison Award for Distinguished Teaching.Mr. Roland N. McKean, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to devote full time to research.Mr. John M. Pierce, Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period May 4, 1973 through June 30, 1973, without pay, to visit another institution.Mr. William Rotch, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept appointment as Visiting Professor at the Advanced Management Institute, Lausanne, Switzerland.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Professor of Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Chairman of Administrative Conference of the United States.Mr. William G. Shenkir, Professor of Commerce, for the period April 1, 1973, through June 30, 1975, without pay, to accept an appointment on the Financial Accounting Standards Board.Mr. Lawrence Smith, Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor, Indiana University.Mr. Robert L. Vickery, Jr., Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1974, without pay, to accept a teaching position at the Polytechnic of Central London.Mr. Lawrence A. Waggoner, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Michigan.Mr. Alan B. Williamson, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to accept a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts.Mr. Lev Zetlin, University Professor of Architecture and of Civil Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to take care of professional activities away from the University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. James S. Beaver, from Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, to Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Patrick J. Bird, from Associate Professor of Education, to Associate Professor of Education and of Pediatrics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Andrew J. Chmiel, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Family and Community Medicine, for the period February 1, 1973, through June 30, 1975.Dr. Robert K. Greenlaw, from Associate Professor of Orthopedics, to Associate Professor of Orthopedics and of Biomedical Engineering, for the period February 1, 1973, through July 15, 1975.Mr. Arnold Rampersad, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period February 1, 1973, through January 31, 1976.Miss Mary E. Reres, from Associate Professor of Nursing, to Associate Professor of Nursing and of Psychiatry, for the period March 1, 1973, through June 30, 1976.Dr. Jerry B. Saffer, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William J. Starosta, from Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, to Assistant Professor of Speech, for the period February 1, 1973, through June 30, 1975.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Tajammul H. Bhatti, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position at the Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks, Assistant Professor of Humanities, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position at Old Dominion University.Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective June 13, 1973, for personal reasons.Dr. Thomas Kenner, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective January 15, 1973, because of illness.Mr. John M. Pierce, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective June 30, 1973, to accept a position in Palo Alto.Dr. Frank H. Phillips, Jr., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1973, to enter private practice.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Edwin S. Cohen as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Robert T. Denomme as Acting Chairman, Department of French Literature and General Linguistics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. A. Dexter Hinckley as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. H. Clifton McCleskey as Director, Institute of Government, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Captain Maurice G. White as Chairman, Department of Naval Science, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Brian M. Austin as Assistant Director, Student Counseling Center, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas W. Best as Acting Chairman, Department of German Literature, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Fred A. Diehl as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Director, Financial Aid to Students, for two years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh as Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973, or until a new chairman is appointed, whichever is the shorter period.Mr. Carroll A. Gardner, Jr., as Special Assistant to the President, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Associate Director, Student Counseling Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Janice R. Hellman as Assistant Director of Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss D. Jane Ikenberry as Assistant Dean of Students, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Barbara A. Kelly as Assistant to the Director of Intramurals, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James W. Ramsey, Jr., as Assistant Director, Financial Aid to Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker as Chairman, Department of Classics, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Colonel John E. Strever, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Military Science, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James O. West as Assistant to the Director, University Athletic Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Donald J. Wright as Director, Computing Activities and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

NAMING OF THE FORMER RED CROSS TRAINING CENTER
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the former Red Cross Training Center be and it is hereby named the George Baskerville Zehmer Hall.

NAMING OF THE AUDITORIUM ATTACHED TO MCLEOD HALL
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Auditorium attached to McLeod Hall be and it is hereby named the Charles Rogers Fenwick Auditorium.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$ 86,124.46

Free service to Counties and Cities

187,637.43

\------------

Total

$273,761.89

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $273,761.89, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$ 86,124.46Free service to Counties and Cities187,637.43------------Total$273,761.89

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE TELEPHONE POLL OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON FEBRUARY 27, 1973
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the telephone poll of the Executive Committee authorizing Mr. A. Ward Sims to arrange for the sale of property willed to the University by Mr. John C. Airhart. In accordance with Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966, the Executive Committee acting for The Rector and Visitors, unanimously adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, said Rector and Visitors being sole legatee and devisee under Paragraph II of the Will of John C. Airhart, the said Will being executed on 23 June 1972 and the said testator having died on September 18, 1972, hereby consents to the exercise by A. Ward Sims, Executor nominated in Article III of the aforesaid Will, who qualified on 27 September 1972 in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, of his power of sale conferred by Paragraph (b) of Virginia Code (1950) Section 64.1-57, which section is incorporated by reference unto the aforesaid Will, at such times and upon such terms and conditions as the aforesaid executor in his sole discretion deems wise, the following tracts of land of which The Rector and Visitors is devisee:1. Lots 1A, 1B, 12A and 12B in Mayfair Subdivision, Leesburg, Virginia.2. House and lot located on 10th Street, Purcellville, Virginia.AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the interests in said tracts devised to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by said Will be conveyed to such grantees, and upon such terms and conditions, as the aforesaid A. Ward Sims, Executor, in his sole discretion shall deem wise, and the Comptroller and Secretary are hereby authorized to execute such deeds and other documents and assurances as may be necessary to effect such conveyances, and the grantees in each case shall not be required to look to the application of the proceeds.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A SPECIAL FEE IN THE SCHOOL OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established for students in the School of Law a special fee of $5.00 per session to be used for the publication and distribution of the yearbook, The Barrister, to every student in the Law School, effective for the 1973-1974 session and thereafter.

UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Service Support Units Bad Debts Committee be and it is hereby authorized, as recommended by it, to charge off the following uncollectible accounts: Schedule #1, Photographic Services, Alderman Library, $262.03; Schedule #2, Food Services, $15.05; Schedule #3, Newcomb Hall Bookstore, $69.46; Schedule #4, University Press of Virginia, $782.18; and Schedule #5, Food Services, payroll, $49.45.

POLICY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOR THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTSPURPOSEIMPLEMENTING GUIDELINESREVIEW COMMITTEES: COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONSINITIAL AND CONTINUING REVIEW PROCEDURES BY THE COMMITTEES\* \*Unless specifically noted otherwise, procedures are equally applicable to both the Clinical Research Committee and the Human Subjects Committee. TIMING OF REVIEWADEQUATE PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF SUBJECTSOBTAINING INFORMED CONSENTRELATIVE WEIGHTS OF RISKS VERSUS BENEFITSNOTIFYING THE PROJECT DIRECTOR OF THE COMMITTEE'S DECISIONPROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A TYPICAL GRANT APPLICATIONSELF-SURVEILLANCE AND REPORTINGCONTINUING REVIEW OF RESEARCHRECORDS AND REPORTSFACILITIES AVAILABLE TO PROTECT THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF HUMAN SUBJECTSVOICING OF COMPLAINTS AND CONCERNS BY HUMAN SUBJECTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following is adopted as the official policy with respect to the Policy of the University of Virginia for the Protection of Human Subjects:

The Policy of the University of Virginia for the Protection of Human Subjects is to assure that in the plans and conduct of sponsored projects and activities that include human subjects:

The rights and welfare of subjects are adequately protected.

The risks to subjects are outweighed by potential benefits.

The informed consent of subjects will be obtained by methods that are adequate and appropriate.

The complexity of the University of Virginia requires that there be two review committees, with a separate chairman for each, responsible for protecting human subjects who may be "at risk"\* \*Exposure of an individual to the possibility of harm--physical, psychological, sociological, or other--as a consequence of any activity which goes beyond the application of those established and accepted methods necessary to meet his needs. in research, training, demonstrations or other University activities. Both committees are responsible to the Vice President and Provost of the University.

Exposure of an individual to the possibility of harm--physical, psychological, sociological, or other--as a consequence of any activity which goes beyond the application of those established and accepted methods necessary to meet his needs.

All applications which include human subjects who may be "at risk," whether in research, training, demonstrations or other, and originate in the Medical Center will be reviewed by the Clinical Research Committee, which is appointed by the Dean of the Medical School. The committee is composed of ten members from varying backgrounds to assure complete and adequate review. Most of the members will be engaged in private practice as well as research. (See Appendix A, "Current Membership and Qualifications of the Clinical Research Committee.")

All applications which include human subjects who may be "at risk," whether in research, training, demonstrations, or other, and originate in the University outside the Medical Center will be reviewed by the Human Subjects Committee, which is appointed by the Vice President and Provost. This committee is composed of at least six members with representation from the Schools of Education, Engineering and Law and the Departments of Psychology and Sociology and Anthropology. (See Appendix B, "Current Membership and Qualifications of the Human Subjects Committee.")

The Chairman of each committee will serve as ex officio member of the other. The Human Subjects Committee member from the School of Law may serve as consultant to the Clinical Research Committee, upon request. Conversely, applications to the Human Subjects Committee which have medical implications will be referred to the Clinical Research Committee for review and approval. A committee reviewing a project which involves the use of experimental new drugs will include a quorum including not less than two persons licensed to administer drugs, and one who is not so licensed.

No individual shall participate in the review of the research activities in which he is involved, except to provide information to the committee. A committee member will absent himself during the discussion of and voting on his own application.

The chairman of either committee shall be responsible for determining the need for and obtaining expert advice whenever necessary for the competent review of an application. The source and nature of such advice shall be reported to the Vice President and Provost, along with the committee's decision. Similarly, the review committee shall inform each investigator of the need for and suggest sources of expert advice or consultation during the conduct of the investigation. This information will form a part of the committee's decision report.

A majority of the committee members constitute a quorum, a majority of which may pass on an application. The result of such vote, along with appropriate attachments, shall be reported immediately to the Office of Sponsored Programs and to the Vice President and Provost.

Unless specifically noted otherwise, procedures are equally applicable to both the Clinical Research Committee and the Human Subjects Committee.

The committee will meet as often as the need arises. Research described in applications and contract proposals shall, whenever possible, be given institutional review and approval prior to submittal to the sponsor.

There may be occasions when a second review by the committee will be required before the research project is initiated. Also, the committee shall require the project or program director to report for review any emergent problems or proposed procedural changes which might affect the status of the research with regard to the committee's review criteria. No such changes, except those necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards, will be allowed without prior approval of the committee.

Prior to submittal of a grant application to the committee, the principal investigator should discuss his application with his department head during its preparation, and submit it to the review committee before the application is sent to the sponsor. The proposal or application should be appropriately marked in the spaces provided or, when missing, the following statement should be typed on the lower or right-hand margin of the page bearing the name of the institutional official signing the application or proposal for the institution:

HUMAN SUBJECTS---REVIEWED AND APPROVED ON (date). (This date should be no more than 90 days prior to the submittal date and must not be more than 12 months prior to the proposed starting date).

If it is necessary to delay the review, the proposal should be appropriately marked in the spaces provided on the forms or, if missing, the following statement should be typed in the lower or right-hand margin of the page bearing the name of the institutional official authorized to sign or execute applications or proposals for the institution:

HUMAN SUBJECTS---REVIEW PENDING ON (date). (This date should be at least one month earlier than the proposed starting date of the project to avoid possible conflict with the award date).

Pending reviews will be completed as much in advance of the stated pending review date as is practicable. If the final action is disapproval, or is approval contingent on substantive changes in the proposal, the Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will be asked to so notify the operating agency and, where appropriate, will formally withdraw the application from further consideration by that agency.

The committee will carefully examine the research plan from each investigator to arrive at an independent determination of the possible hazards involved. In particular, the committee will be alert to the possibility that the principal investigator may unintentionally introduce unnecessary or unacceptable hazards or fail to provide adequate safeguards. The committee will consider the research plan as a whole in order to determine that the normally minor and acceptable risks are not aggravated by the design of the plan. The committee must be assured by the investigators that proper precautions will be taken to deal with emergencies that may develop even in the course of routine procedures.

The committee will assist in the development of a proper and appropriate investigation consent form. The guidelines for the wording of such forms, for the methods by which patients or subjects are to be informed in a valid manner, and for the limitations and exceptions to the rule that all subjects or their guardians must be informed and be given written consent, are derived from those issued on August 24, 1966, by FDA commissioner J. P. Goddard (Title 21, Part 130.37, as published in the Federal Register of August 30, 1966). The basic guideline has been expanded, however, to include not only the use of new drugs but all other investigative procedures as well.

Consent will be obtained whenever possible from the subject himself. Whenever the subject is not legally or physically capable of giving informed consent because of age, medical incapacity or inability to communicate, or when the attending professional investigator believes that the giving of full information would be contrary to the best interest of the subject, a review committee may consider the validity of consent of the next of kin, legal guardians or other responsible third parties who represent the subject's interest. The committee will determine if the consent, whether secured in writing or orally, or implicit in the voluntary participation in a well advertised activity, is adequate in the light of risks to the subject and the circumstances of the research. The committee will also determine if the information to be given to the subject or responsible third parties, orally or in writing, is a fair explanation of the procedures, the possible benefits, and the attendant hazards.

Even though informed consent has been obtained or can be anticipated, the committee will carefully consider the relative weights of the risks and benefits of the procedures to the subjects.

When the committee's overall recommendation concerning a research project is favorable, it will prescribe restrictions or conditions under which research may be conducted, define areas of possible pertinent changes in the research plans which should be brought to the investigator's attention, and determine the nature and frequency of interim review procedures to insure continued acceptable conduct of the research. Unfavorable recommendations concerning the proposed research project cannot be removed except by the committee. Under no circumstances shall proposed research or proposed changes in research plans not approved by the research committee be implemented with sponsor funds. In the event of unfavorable recommendations, the investigator proposing the research will be informed of the reasons for any adverse actions taken by the committee.

The application should be discussed by the principal investigator with his department head during its preparation and subsequently submitted to the review committee before or as soon as possible after submittal to the sponsor.

The committee chairman will study each application, seek clarification and obtain expert advice or consultation as needed, and schedule it for committee consideration. Each application will be discussed carefully and unhurriedly, and the final decision and recommendation will be communicated in detail to the principal investigator. Disapproval of an application may be appealed to a full meeting of both committees and the Vice President and Provost, with the investigator appearing in person with his department head and other expert consultants to support his appeal. The final decision will be by written ballot with the Vice President and Provost voting. Confirming disapproval at this point precludes further appeal.

If the investigator agrees to the committee decision report and this is properly signed, he is free to begin his investigation when funded. If he disagrees, he may request a re-hearing for modification of the conditions of the committee decision. When all is in agreement, the Vice President and Provost will be so notified. The Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will not authorize an expenditure from sponsor funds until all questions concerning research protocol involving human subjects have been appropriately settled.

Each investigator and each department head in signing the committee decision report affirm their respective pledges: the investigator (1) to follow faithfully the protocol spelled out in his application (with amendments, if any are recommended by the committee), (2) to report promptly any departure from protocol or untoward occurrences to his department head, and (3) to modify or terminate his investigation at the decision of the department head or committee; the department head, (1) to share in the responsibility for the conduct of the investigation, (2) to consult with the review committee regarding any significant departure from protocol or the occurrence of any untoward developments, specifically, permanent disability or death, and (3) to respond to the annual request for reports of work in progress, correcting any deficiencies of supervision as they become obvious. The committee reserves the right to terminate the experiment at any time if by majority vote it decides that the risks of further experimentation are prohibitive. In the event of such an occurrence, the Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will so notify the sponsoring agency.

The committee shall require the project or program director to report to the committee for review any emergent problems or proposed procedural changes which may affect the status of the research with regard to the committee's review criteria. No such changes except those necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards will be made without prior approval by the committee. The committee shall carry out interim reviews of the conduct of all research projects at appropriate intervals.

The formal records of the committee are as follows: (1) Minutes of Meetings - A copy will be furnished to each committee member and the Vice President and Provost. The Minutes will identify each application by title, intended sponsor, identifying number (if shown), project period, and principal investigator(s), with appropriate source and substance of any expert advice made part of the review, and will record any pertinent discussion, tabulated vote, and the final decision on each application. Also, the committee decision reports will be recorded as soon as possible. (2) Committee Decision Report - Three copies are to be completed for each application. This form includes the date of the meeting, the number of members present, the title, the identifying number, principal investigator(s), the majority decision, any suggestions concerning possible need for expert advice and consultation or utilization of special professional assistance or facilities, specific recommendations of methods to be used in obtaining informed consent, the requirement that all departures from protocol, untoward developments, etc. be reported to the department head, the request that the department head periodically review this investigation as part of work and progress in his department, and the signatures of the committee chairman, the principal investigator(s) and the department head. (3) Annual Reports - The committee will request a statement of satisfactory progress in January from each department head under whom a principal investigator has begun or continued a previously approved investigation during the previous year. These reports are to be kept in the committee files, and a summary will be sent to the Vice President and Provost for his records.

At the University of Virginia Medical Center there are extensive facilities and personnel available to protect the health and safety of human subjects, particularly those who require emergency care. The University of Virginia Medical Center is registered by the American College of Surgeons, the American Medical Association, and the American Hospital Association and is fully accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals. All internships and residencies are approved by the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American Medical Association.

Human subjects who wish to voice complaints or concerns about their involvement in a particular research, training, demonstration or other activity may do so to the committee which first approved the activity. In the event that the human subject is not satisfied, further administrative review is available. Appeal from the review of the Clinical Research Committee is to the Dean of the School of Medicine, then the Vice President and Provost, and finally the President of the University. Appeal from the review of the Human Subjects Committee is to the Vice President and Provost and then the President.

REVISION AND REENACTMENT OF THE BOARD'S STANDING POLICY ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF ATHLETICS AND THE ADVISORY COUNCIL ON ATHLETICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement be and it is hereby approved:(1) That responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of University Athletic Programs, who shall have faculty status and the pay of a Department Head, and that the Director of University Athletic Programs shall be responsible to the President of the University.(2) That the faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general; that students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in intercollegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administrative authorities, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned.(3) That an Advisory Council on Athletics be established which shall consist of:(a) Four members from the Faculty, appointed by the President;(b) Four members from the Alumni Association, elected by its Board of Managers, at least two of whom shall be members of the Board of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation; and,(c) Four members from the Student Body, elected by the Student Council, two of whom shall be President of Student Athletic Council and the Senior Intramural Manager;that this Advisory Council shall be authorized to select its own Chairman and to adopt rules or regulations governing its sessions and the transaction of its business; that the Advisory Council shall be required to meet once in each calendar quarter and at such additional times as may appear necessary, on call of its chairman or of the Director of University Athletic Programs; that the Director of University Athletic Programs shall be required to report to the Council at each meeting concerning his administration of the Department and to suggest to the Council for its discussion and for advisory action any questions then existing or anticipated by the Director of University Athletic Programs as likely as to arise prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting; that this Council shall have the function of advising with the Director of University Athletic Programs concerning all major decisions affecting the administration of his Department, or referring to the Board of Visitors, through the President, for its consideration questions of policy deemed by the Council to be appropriate for Board action, and of recommending in like manner to the Board of Visitors action on any question concerning the Department, referred by the Board to the Council.(4) That the administration of the Department of Athletics shall be under the supervision of the President and administrative authorities of the University, and that decision on all questions involved in its operation shall, as in other phases of the University's activities, be subject to review and final determination by the Board of Visitors.

PATENT POLICY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAPATENT POLICY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAAdministrative ResponsibilitiesDistribution of Royalties to the Inventor(s)Inventions and Discoveries which are not the Result of University Research
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following is adopted as the official policy with respect to the Patent Policy for the University of Virginia:

Policy

The policy of the University of Virginia is to consider and, where appropriate, assist in the patenting and commercial development of any discovery or invention which is the product of University research. Any person who may be engaged in University research shall be required to execute a patent agreement with the University in which the rights and obligations of both parties are defined.

This policy is intended to:

1) provide an incentive to creative intellectual effort and the advancement of knowledge for the welfare of mankind;

2) insure that the respective interests of the researcher (as faculty or staff member or student), the University, any supporting sponsor, and society are considered and protected through the development of fair contracts and procedures;

3) assist the researcher and the University to realize tangible benefits from inventions or discoveries; and

4) advance and encourage further research within the University with whatever funds accrue to the University from inventions resulting from University research.

Definition of University Research and Researcher

For the purpose of this Patent Policy and any documents developed for its implementation, University research is defined as research and related activities by any person a) which are related in any way to duties or responsibilities for which he has been compensated either by or through the University or b) for which facilities owned, operated, or controlled by the University are used.

Products of research eligible for copyright protection are excluded from this definition.

Modification of this definition of University research may be effected by the terms of a contract between the University and another public or private agency or, in exceptional circumstances, in the patent agreement with an individual University researcher.

A researcher is any person who may be engaged in University research.

1\. Associate Provost for Research

Responsibility for the administration of the University of Virginia Patent Policy is assigned to the Associate Provost for Research.

The Associate Provost for Research shall

1) develop standards and procedures appropriate for the implementation of this policy;

2) obtain, maintain, and insure compliance with signed patent agreements 1) between the University and each researcher and 2) between the researcher and a sponsor agency as required by the terms of a grant or contract;

3) judge whether an invention or discovery is the product of University research;

4) determine whether an invention or discovery which is the product of University research is patentable;

5) determine whether the University should claim equity in the patenting of an invention or discovery which is the product of University research, or whether all rights should be waived in favor of the inventor. In the latter case, the inventor should be informed in writing by the Associate Provost for Research that the University relinquishes all claims to the invention or discovery;

6) investigate possible courses of action for the patenting and/or marketing of an invention or discovery in which the University has an equity;

7) after soliciting the review and comments of the appropriate academic dean on (3), (4), (5) and (6), investigate and select alternative plans for implementation of the chosen course of action for the patenting and/or marketing of an invention or discovery in which the University has an equity;

8) recommend for the signature of the University Comptroller any formal agreement between the University and an outside agency which may be required in executing the course of action in (7);

9) be responsible, with appropriate support from the Office of Sponsored Programs, for preparing all reports for inventions, discoveries, and patents which are the product of University research;

10) maintain a file for each disclosure which will contain complete records of all actions;

11) prepare an annual report for the University Research Policy Council.

All actions shall be taken and decisions made within a reasonable time so that an inventor's options are not compromised unfairly.

2\. The Office of Sponsored Programs

In implementing the Patent Policy, the Office of Sponsored Programs shall

1) inform the Office of the Associate Provost for Research and principal investigator of all requirements regarding patents in any grant or contract accepted by the University of Virginia;

2) with the aid of the principal investigator and in conjunction with the Office of the Associate Provost for Research, provide all invention reports and other pertinent information regarding patents as required by the terms of a grant, contract, or agreement.

3\. The University Patent Committee

A Patent Committee, appointed by the President from recommendations by the University Research Policy Council, will consist of at least five members, including representation from the Schools of Engineering, Arts and Sciences, Medicine, Law and Graduate Business. The University Patent Committee shall

1) review and recommend to the University Research Policy Council for approval the standards and procedures and any amendments thereto developed by the Associate Provost for Research for the implementation of the Patent Policy;

2) when agreement among the parties cannot be reached, serve as a board to which the researcher may appeal decisions of the Associate Provost for Research, subject to appropriate review standards and procedures, and make subsequent recommendations to the University Research Policy Council;

3) consult with the Associate Provost for Research when requested.

4\. The University Research Policy Council

The University Research Policy Council shall

1) recommend to the President appointments to the University Patent Committee;

2) approve the standards and procedures and any amendment thereto developed by the Associate Provost for Research for the implementation of the Patent Policy;

3) conduct an annual review of the patent program with the Associate Provost for Research;

4) administer the special fund which shall be established for any royalties accruing to the University as a result of the implementation of this policy;

5) where the actions of the Associate Provost for Research are appealed to the University Patent Committee, review the recommendations of the University Patent Committee and instruct the Associate Provost for Research on appropriate subsequent action.

In general, the inventor(s) will receive from any product of University research fifteen percent of the gross royalties which accrue from inventions for which the University obtains and holds patent.

An institutional agreement between the University and an outside patent management firm, such as Research Corporation, or between the University and a Federal agency, such as the National Institutes of Health, will specify a distribution of royalties.

Individual grants or contracts for sponsored University research with public or private agencies may specify an assignment of patent(s) ownership and distribution of royalties of which the researcher shall be informed before research is conducted under such an award or contract.

The University normally will relinquish any claim to an invention or discovery which is judged by the Associate Provost for Research not to be the product of University research. However, in such cases the researcher may request that the invention or discovery be appraised by and, if appropriate, assigned to the University. In such cases, the terms of the agreement will be determined by the inventor and the University.

CHANGES IN TUITION AND FEESUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPOSED TUITION INCREASES 1973-75
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For Student Health

$5.00

For Recreation and Women's Athletics

$5.00

For Faculty TIAA-CREF

$15.00

School

Virginians

Out-of-State Students

Current

Proposed

Current

Proposed

1972-73

1973-74

1972-73

1973-74

1974-75

College, Commerce, Nursing, Education

$415

$415

$1,190

$1,240

$ Open

Engineering & Architecture

465

465

1,190

1,240

Open

Graduate - A & S, Law, Engineering, Education, Architecture, Nursing, DBA in Graduate Business:

Students Entering, Prior to Fall 1972

415

415

1,025

1,075

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1972

450

450

1,100

1,150

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1973

\-

475

\-

1,240

Open

School of Law:

Students Entering, Fall 1971

490

490

1,370

1,420

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1972

520

520

1,445

1,495

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1973

\-

600

\-

1,725

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1974

\-

\-

\-

\-

2,000

Graduate Business:

Students Entering, Fall 1972 & Fall 1973

\-

800

\-

1,700

Open

Students Entering, Fall 1974

\-

\-

\-

\-

2,000

Medicine

800

900

1,850

2,100

Open

The Board of Visitors adopted a resolution on February 2, 1973 which provides for adjustments of the tuition increases already approved for the 1973-74 session and for an increase of $25.00 per student in the Comprehensive Fee subject to the restitution to the University's appropriation for 1973-74 of $688,000. The General Assembly has restored that amount to the University appropriation.

The following resolution was adopted: (a) RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the $25.00 per student increase in the Comprehensive Fee, authorized to become effective for the 1973-74 session be distributed as follows: For Student Health$5.00For Recreation and Women's Athletics$5.00For Faculty TIAA-CREF$15.00 (b) RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following schedule of tuition charges which reflects all necessary adjustments shall supersede all previous schedules and it is hereby approved, effective for the 1973-74 session:

SchoolVirginiansOut-of-State StudentsCurrentProposedCurrentProposed1972-731973-741972-731973-741974-75College, Commerce, Nursing, Education$415$415$1,190$1,240$ OpenEngineering & Architecture4654651,1901,240OpenGraduate - A & S, Law, Engineering, Education, Architecture, Nursing, DBA in Graduate Business:Students Entering, Prior to Fall 19724154151,0251,075OpenStudents Entering, Fall 19724504501,1001,150OpenStudents Entering, Fall 1973-475-1,240OpenSchool of Law:Students Entering, Fall 19714904901,3701,420OpenStudents Entering, Fall 19725205201,4451,495OpenStudents Entering, Fall 1973-600-1,725OpenStudents Entering, Fall 1974----2,000Graduate Business:Students Entering, Fall 1972 & Fall 1973-800-1,700OpenStudents Entering, Fall 1974----2,000Medicine8009001,8502,100Open

CORRECTION TO THE MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 13, 1971
----------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the February 13, 1971 meeting of the Board referring to an increase in tuition for students entering the School of Law in September 1971 and thereafter omit a clause which was adopted by the Board on recommendation of the Finance Committee.

The following resolution was adopted to correct the Minutes by adding the clause shown below in italics:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Minutes of the February 13, 1971 meeting be corrected on page 254 to read as follows:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the out-of-State tuition charge for students entering the School of Law be and it is hereby increased by $100 per session, effective September 1971, the proceeds to be used for the amortization of a loan necessary to construct 16,000 square feet of space in the new School of Law building beyond that authorized by the State.

RESOLUTION REGARDING JEFFERSON PARK AVENUE BOUNDARY
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the location of the boundary line of the University's property on Jefferson Park Avenue in the area in which the Health Sciences Library will be erected cannot be determined from existing records; andWHEREAS the determination of an exact boundary line must be made prior to construction of the Health Sciences Library;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the boundaries shown on the plat by B. Aubrey Huffman dated 26 March 1973 are accepted as the true boundaries of the University's property;RESOLVED FURTHER that this acceptance is contingent upon the reciprocal consent to and acceptance of these boundaries by the City of Charlottesville within six (6) months;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Legal Adviser is directed to draft all necessary documents for the mutual acceptance of these boundaries by the University and the City of Charlottesville which, together with the aforementioned plat, shall be recorded in the offices of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County and the Clerk of the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO PRESIDENT TO MAKE FINAL DECISIONS REGARDING STATUS OF VIRGINIA STUDENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS no procedure for appeal from decisions of the University Committee on Virginia Status of University Students to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been established; andWHEREAS decisions by this Committee are now being contested upon constitutional and other grounds likely to lead to litigation in which the Rector and Visitors will be a party; andWHEREAS appeals from these decisions may be numerous and will involve issues of law and fact concerning which the President of the University may make final administrative determinations on behalf of the Rector and Visitors;NOW BE IT RESOLVED that the President be and he is hereby authorized to hear and finally determine for the Rector and Visitors appeals from decisions of the University Committee on Virginia Status of University Students and make final dispositions thereof;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President is required to report his dispositions of all appeals to the Finance Committee at the next regular meeting of the Rector and Visitors following his determinations.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------------

Vice-President Crawford distributed a printed summary of actions of the General Assembly during the 1973 session and commented briefly on those which will affect the University of Virginia.

REPORT ON THE IACP DOCUMENT
---------------------------

The President reported that the Report of the International Association of Chiefs of Police has been distributed to members of the Board, and that the University has entered into a contract with that Association for assistance in implementing certain recommendations contained in the Report. The Rector observed that the Report was a rigorous one, and he commended the President on the handling of the matter.

REPORT ON THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
----------------------------------------

Vice-President Crawford advised the Board that the Freedom of Information Act was revised by the General Assembly. New provisions of the Act become effective July 1, 1973. From that time forward the Board must make its actions public upon adjournment, and the Minutes open to the public within three working days thereafter.

REPORT ON THE STONE COMMISSION
------------------------------

The President reported on the current status and work of the Stone Commission.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of Gifts and Grants. He observed that Mr. C. Waller Barrett again leads the list of contributors, and he expressed the thanks and appreciation of the University to Mr. Barrett for his generosity.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PRESIDENT TO MAKE NEGOTIATIONS REGARDING BLANDY EXPERIMENTAL FARM
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The State Highway Department has determined that the route they have selected for the new lane of Route 50 will require that the Highway Department acquire 8.68 acres, more or less, of land from the Blandy Experimental Farm. The Highway Department has offered the University $17,565 for the tract. Upon recommendation of the Finance Committee, the following resolution was adopted by a divided vote. Visitors Potter and Santarelli voted against the adoption of the resolution.

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized to negotiate for the sale of 8.68 acres more or less of land from the Blandy Experimental Farm requested by the State Department of Highways for the widening of Route 50.

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE PETITION OF CHRISTIAN S. WHITE, LARRY S. CARLISLE AND OTHERS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of the Board heard arguments by Mr. Larry S. Carlisle and his attorney, Mr. Waverly Parker, on April 5, 1973, and received from Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Parker certain documents as exhibits.

Upon the recommendation of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors, by its resolution of 5 June 1970 concerning student activity fees, established procedures by which persons aggrieved by the approval or disapproval by Student Council of allocations from the Student Activity Fund might prosecute appeals, such resolution indicating that if no appeal was taken from the decision by Student Council approving an allocation then the allocation would be made;AND WHEREAS, Mr. Christian S. White and others, not including the petitioner Mr. Larry S. Carlisle, on or about 28 November 1972, in accordance with the procedure established by the Rector and Visitors, appealed from a decision by Student Council approving an allocation of funds to the Gay Student Union, but did not appeal other allocations, such allocation to the Gay Student Union being later approved by the Student Activities Committee but thereafter denied by the President and also by the Rector and Visitors in its resolution of 2 February 1973;AND WHEREAS in paragraph (5) of such resolution of 2 February 1973, the Rector and Visitors instructed the Student Activities Committee to re-examine the allocation of all funds made during the 1972-73 session and to halt allocations "to organizations not meeting the requirements of the 1970 guidelines" as interpreted by the Rector and Visitors in its resolution of 2 February 1973;AND WHEREAS, Mr. Christian S. White then asserted that the Rector and Visitors had applied new guidelines to deny funds to the Gay Student Union which had not been applied equally to other organizations, and asserted further that this conferred upon him and his colleagues standing to attack allocations made to organizations other than the Gay Student Union in the Session 1972-73 even though he and his colleagues had failed to adhere to the reasonable appellate procedures established for this purpose by the Rector and Visitors and President, which procedures could have been utilized by him and his colleagues had their complaint been timely;AND WHEREAS a majority of Mr. White's colleagues then withdrew from this new attack upon the allocation of funds, Mr. White then being joined by the petitioner, Mr. Carlisle and others, who had participated in the appeal from the allocation of funds to the Gay Student Union; and Mr. White and his new Colleagues then sought to intervene in the inquiry by the Student Activities Committee ordered by the Rector and Visitors in its resolution of 2 February 1973, such intervention being denied by the Chairman of the Committee upon the advice of Counsel;AND WHEREAS in order to permit Mr. Carlisle to state on his own behalf and on behalf of other petitioners objections to the Report of the Student Activities Committee when this report was made to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of this Board, Mr. Carlisle with Mr. Parker as Counsel was invited by the President, with the consent of the Committee Chairman, to appear before the Committee, and did appear, raising objections to allocations to a substantial number of organizations based upon his construction of the guidelines of the Rector and Visitors as applied in its resolution of 2 February 1973, and deposited with the Committee a written statement of his objections with exhibits;NOW BE IT RESOLVED:(1) That the Rector and Visitors in its resolution of 2 February 1973 applied its guidelines of 5 June 1970 in denying funds to the Gay Student Union and applied no new guidelines for this purpose;(2) That Paragraph 1 of its resolution of 2 February 1973 is intended by the Rector and Visitors to describe general limitations upon its power which have for many years been imposed by constitutional, statutory and common law, all of which could have been ascertained by counsel and some of which were argued by Mr. Dickey, one of the counsel for the appellants in the Gay Student Union case, but which are now described by Messrs. Carlisle and Parker as "new"; and that Paragraph 2 of the resolution deals principally with substantial political and substantial social activity, both of which were the basis of principal arguments offered by appellants in the Gay Student Union case but which they now describe as "new", although previously, and correctly, asserted by Messrs. Parker and Dickey as existing guidelines.(3) That under these circumstances it would be unreasonable, arbitrary and capricious to allow an appeal by the present petitioners, White, Carlisle et al when reasonable procedures for appeal provided by the Rector and Visitors were not utilized and when individuals and organizations relying upon these procedures would be denied their reasonable expectation of certainty to funds allocated. A careful scrutiny by the Student Activities Committee of these allocations under careful instructions by the President and Board is reasonable. Permitting a wholesale attack upon these allocations by persons hostile to the organizations receiving them without applying to these attacks the procedural requirements applied to other students is unreasonable.(4) That for the reasons set forth in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) the petition of Mr. White, Mr. Carlisle and others to deny allocation of funds to student organizations for the Session 1972-73 is denied, which denial constitutes final administrative action upon this petition;NEVERTHELESS BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors desires assurance that its instructions in Paragraph 5 of its resolution of 2 February 1973, as supplemented by explanatory instructions by the President in his letter of 6 February 1973, have been executed. In particular the Rector and Visitors desires that the constitutions of organizations which might, by reasonable expectation, engage in substantial social activities be carefully examined and allocations of funds denied in appropriate cases and further-more desires that no organization be funded which discriminates in membership based on race, religion or sex (except in those forms of athletic competition in which discrimination by sex is reasonable). To this end, the Rector and Visitors returns its report to the Student Activities Committee for further inquiry by it and transmits with this report copies of the statement and exhibits submitted to the Board by Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Parker, such statement and materials to be used as the Committee deems expedient. The Committee will report its findings to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee at the next regular meeting of the Rector and Visitors.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Special Committee on the Library looking forward to the construction of a Special Collection and Rare Books Library from private funds recommended to the Board the following resolution which was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia recognizes that financial support from private sources has long provided "the margin of excellence" so essential to maintaining this institution's place in the front ranks of American universities; and,WHEREAS in an effort to increase support from all private sources the University has established an Office of Development to conduct a University-wide development program; and,WHEREAS the Board of Visitors requested the President of the University to establish specific guidelines for fund raising and authorized the creation of a Development Council of the University of Virginia to provide strong volunteer leadership for the University's total effort to secure private support; and,WHEREAS in accordance with the fund-raising guidelines now established and after a review of those University-wide proposals requiring private funding, the University Development Steering Committee has recommended to the President that first priority be given to the development of a plan and program to expand central library facilities, including a facility for special collections and rare books and an undergraduate and reading library; and,WHEREAS the University Development Steering Committee and the Library Committee of the Board of Visitors have recommended further that appropriate plans be developed for a program to obtain the funds necessary for the planning, design, and construction of these library facilities; andWHEREAS the President of the University has concurred in these recommendations and has presented them to the Board of Visitors with his enthusiastic endorsement; andWHEREAS the President has secured a commitment of planning money for the library facilities up to $100,000 from the Alumni Board of Trustees of the Endowment Fund, and has, with the approval of the Board of Visitors, submitted a request to the Governor for an appropriation for construction of the undergraduate library in the University's capital outlay budget for 1974-76; and,NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the funds for the Special Collections and Rare Books Library be sought from other than state sources and that in order to reach the University's full potential of private support for library facilities, the Rector appoint Mr. C. Waller Barrett to serve as Chairman of the Development Council of the University of Virginia;BE IT RESOLVED FURTHER that the Office of University Development provide full assistance to Mr. Barrett in establishing a plan for raising private funds for the Special Collections and Rare Books Library, using outside consultant services, if necessary, and in recommending membership for the Development Council, to be appointed by the Rector and Visitors at its June 1973 meeting. The Development Council shall serve as the volunteer leadership for the total program to solicit private funds for the expansion of the library facilities and other future projects approved by the Board of Visitors.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF THE APPOINTMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that Mr. C. Waller Barrett will serve as the first chairman of the Development Council. The President expressed pleasure in the announcement, and advised that he strongly supports the effort.

REAPPOINTMENT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE LIBRARY BY THE RECTOR
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that the Special Committee on the Library has been reappointed effective April 6, 1973 as follows:

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman

Mr. William E. Leggett

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

Mr. William S. Potter

Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III

COMMENTS BY MR. LAWRENCE LEWIS, JR.
-----------------------------------

Mr. Lawrence Lewis noted that the Manual was printed in 1966, and that the University has changed considerably since that time. He asked that consideration be given to asking a committee to rewrite the Manual of the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Lewis also pointed out to the Board that he feels that the work load of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee is excessive, and that consideration be given to dividing the committee into two committees -- one to deal with athletic matters, and the other to deal with other student affairs matters.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the recently enacted Uniform Management Act removes some restrictions on the procedures for handling endowment funds, and that under the Act the Board would be able to manage funds more effectively. He also reported that new appraisals are being sought for the Seward Forest Property.

Mr. Potter also reported that the University is holding some $900,000 in stock in the Equity Funding Corporation, a stock suspended in trade on March 27, 1973. The University's agent had effected a sale of the stock on March 26, but the broker refused to honor the sale. Mr. Potter expressed hope that the University may avoid the loss of the entire amount.

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that his Committee had discussed the proposals of the State Highway Department with respect to Route 50 in some detail, and had raised questions about the fence and stone wall located on the Blandy Farm property in question. The Committee recommended that the President be authorized to negotiate further with the Highway Department.

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported that his Committee had heard a report on admissions. Though the number of applications runs over seven percent below the figure for last year, the quality of applicants for the next session is very high. The Committee also heard a report on faculty tenure, indicating that in the University about 63 percent of the faculty are tenured, and that the percentage is higher in the Law School and the Medical School.

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Temporary Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, acting for Mr. W. Wright Harrison who was absent, reported that his Committee is scheduled to hear a final report from its subcommittee on Student Activity Fund Allocations at the June 1973 meeting. He also advised that the Committee had a long session with Mr. Larry S. Carlisle and his attorney, Mr. Waverly Parker, appealing the funding of the activities of three student organizations.

Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison, Chairman of the Health Sciences Committee, advised that his Committee recommends the immediate release to the press of the 1972 Report of the Hospital Accounts Committee. Dr. Harrison also reported that the size of the entering class in the Medical School will be increased this fall from 120 to 126 students, and that a newly approved curriculum will shorten the degree program by one month.

The Rector reported that the Special Committee on the Nomination of a President is organized as follows: Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. Santarelli

Mr. Weldon Cooper is serving as Secretary of the Special Committee on the Nomination of a President. The Committee will meet on April 16 with the faculty committee and the student committee. The Rector urged that matters affecting the search be kept confidential.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Ronald C. Vanover as Assistant Professor of Business, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy as Chancellor, Clinch Valley College, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that thanks and appreciation be expressed to the Advisory Board, Chancellor, Faculty, Staff, and Students of Clinch Valley College for the invitation to the Board to visit the College in April of 1973, and for the efforts they made to plan an outstanding program for the members of the Board;And that the Board regrets most sincerely that circumstances prevented the visit;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board re-affirms its dedication to Clinch Valley College as an institution offering unique educational opportunity and one in which the Board and the Commonwealth takes sincere pride.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director of Business and Industry Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Charles E. Smith as Director, University of Virginia Program, F.B.I. National Academy, Quantico, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Director of the Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

MADISON FIELD OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
----------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Maurice S. Matthews, Jr., as Director of the Madison Field Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICEELECTION
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William G. Boyer as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for the period March 16, 1973, through June 30, 1973, at a session salary of $ plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William G. Boyer as Assistant Director of Instruction and Program Development, for the period March 16, 1973, through June 30, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. William G. Boyer as Assistant Director for Instruction and Program Development, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William F. Lanier as Director of the Northern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas E. Morgan, Jr., as Assistant Director for Administration, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------------------------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Director, Richmond Regional Center, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Director, Richmond Regional Center, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, as Director, Roanoke Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey as Director, Southwestern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:08 p.m.

RCB:jb

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 24, 1973MEMORANDUM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To:

The Board of Visitors:

Joseph H. McConnell

Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

C. Waller Barrett

Edwin K. Mattern

Mrs. E. Parker Brown

Brownie E. Polly, Jr.

Robert P. Buford

William S. Potter

Warren B. French, Jr.

Donald E. Santarelli

J. Hartwell Harrison

Hugh Scott

W. Wright Harrison

J. Harvie Wilkinson, III

William E. Leggett

William L. Zimmer, III

From:

Raymond C. Bice

Subject:

Correction in the Minutes of the Board Meeting on April 6, 1973

MEMORANDUMTo:The Board of Visitors:Joseph H. McConnellLawrence Lewis, Jr.C. Waller BarrettEdwin K. MatternMrs. E. Parker BrownBrownie E. Polly, Jr.Robert P. BufordWilliam S. PotterWarren B. French, Jr.Donald E. SantarelliJ. Hartwell HarrisonHugh ScottW. Wright HarrisonJ. Harvie Wilkinson, IIIWilliam E. LeggettWilliam L. Zimmer, IIIFrom:Raymond C. BiceSubject:Correction in the Minutes of the Board Meeting on April 6, 1973

A correction needed in the Board minutes of April 6, 1973 has been called to my attention. The correction is as follows:

On page 680 of the minutes of April 6, 1973 change the first paragraph to read as follows:

Mr. Potter also reported that included among the endowment funds of the University are securities of Equity Funding Corporation of America having a cost value of approximately $1,000,000: that on March 26, 1973, John W. Bristol and Company, the investment counsel to the University, had sold such securities to or through Solomon Brothers in New York City; trading in the securities of Equity Funding Corporation had been suspended by the New York Stock Exchange on March 27, 1973, and that the purchasers of the University holdings had now refused to honor the sale. Mr. Potter expressed concern regarding the transaction and hope that the University may avoid the loss of the entire amount of its investment.

RCB:jb

Copies to: President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr.

Vice-President David A. Shannon

Vice-President Vincent Shea

Vice-President Edwin M. Crawford

Vice-President Kenneth R. Crispell

Vice-President D. Alan Williams
