---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1974'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
TENTATIVE MINUTES Subject to approval by the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 29, 1974
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:15 p.m. on March 29, 1974, in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, M.D., W. Wright Harrison, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, and Hugh Scott. Absent were Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Howard W. McCall, Jr., and William L. Zimmer, III. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin N. Crawford, Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting. Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell was absent.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 24, 1974, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Secretary announced to the Board the appointments by Governor Mills Godwin of Dr. DuPont Guerry, III of Richmond, Mrs. Linwood Holton of Roanoke, Mr. Howard W. McCall of New York, New York, and Mr. George C. Palmer of Charlottesville. Mr. Howard W. McCall was unavoidably absent from the meeting.

ELECTION OF THE RECTOR
----------------------

In accordance with Section 4.11 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors adopted on 26 February 1966, the Board elected Joseph H. McConnell Rector of the University of Virginia for a term beginning 1 March 1974.

ELECTION OF THE SECRETARY
-------------------------

In accordance with Section 4.41 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors adopted 26 February 1966, the Board

elected Raymond C. Bice Secretary to the Board of Visitors for a four year term beginning on 1 March 1974.

ELECTION OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
-----------------------------------

In accordance with Section 4.5 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Staige D. Blackford, Jr., as Assistant Secretary to the Board of Visitors for a four year term beginning On 1 March 1974.

At this point, the President, the Vice-Presidents, and the Legal Adviser joined the meeting. The President warmly welcomed the new members of the Board, and he congratulated Mr. McConnell upon his re-election as Rector.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS
-------------------------------------

The Rector announced the following appointments to standing committees:

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Chairman

Mr. C. Waller Barrett,

Mr. Warren B. French, Jr.

Mr. William E. Leggett

Mr. Edwin K. Mttern

Finance Committee

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman

Mr. W. Wright Harrison

Mr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.

Mr. William L. Zimmer, III

Health Sciences Committee

Dr. DuPont Guerry, III, Chairman

Mr. Robert P. Buford

Mr. Warren B. French, Jr.

Mr. Edwin K. Mattern

Mr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.

Mr. George C. Palmer, II

Senator Hugh Scott

Educational Policy Committee

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman

Dr. DuPont Guerry, III

Mrs. Linwood Holton

Mr. William E. Leggett

Mr. William S. Potter

Mr. Donald E. Santarelli

Senator Hugh Scott

Student Affairs and Athletics Committee

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman

Mr. Robert P. Buford

Mrs. Linwood Holton

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

Mr. George C. Palmer, II

Mr. Donald E. Santarelli

Mr. William L. Zimmer, III

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Miss Virginia L. Algyre as Instructor of the General Faculty, for the period February 5, 1974 through June 30, 1974.

Mr. Larry M. Ayers as Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard Q. Bell as Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Ralph E. Biggadike as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years,effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Thomas D. Bouman as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. Raymond J. Butcher as Instructor in Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.

Mr. Victor N. Cabas as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Miss Rose Marie Chioni as Sadie Heath Cabiness Professor of Nursing, effective February 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard C. Collins as Professor of City Planning, effective September 1, 1974.

Dr. Frank D. Daniel as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Family and Community Medicine, for the period March 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.

Miss Nancy F. Dodge as Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period March 18, 1974 through June 30, 1974.

Mr. Joe Tom Easley as Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Janie P. Egbert as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective November 1, 1973.

Mr. Roger S. Fager as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Joseph C. Ferrar as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for three months, effective March 15, 1974.

Mr. Darryl J. Gless as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Floyd K. Grave as Assistant Professor of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Barbara L. Herlihy as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period September 1, 1974 through July 31,1975.

Mr. Michael F. Holt as Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1974

Dr. Henry S. Johnson as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

Dr. W. Michael Kuehl as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974

Mr. Kenny R. Marotta as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. William M. Maxwell as Instructor in Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.

Mr. P. Kyle McCarter, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Miss Mary B. McKinley as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Lt. Colonel Michael M. Miller as Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective August 1, 1974.

Mr. William N. Morris as Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974

Mr. Jacques Robichez as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974

Mr. Andrew P. Sage as Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, effective July 1, 1974

Mr. Roger W. Shattuck as Commonwealth Professor of French, effective September 1, 1974.

Miss Marsha A. Siegel as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Carol C. Sims as Instructor, General Faculty, one-half time, for the period February 6, 1974 through June 30, 1974.

Mr. Paul B. Tett as Research Associate Professor,for one year, effective March 1, 1974.

Mr. Lawrence E. Thomas as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Roy Wagner as Professor of Anthropology,effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Peter 0. Ward, Jr., as Lecturer in Law,part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Edward A. Nalpant as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for one year, effective February 1, 1974.

ELECTIONS OF PART-TIME INSTRUCTORS
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Winthrop L. Adams as Part-time Instructor in History, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Harvey B. Aronson as Part-time Instructor in Sanskrit, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. David L. Avery, Jr., as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the currant academic year.

Mr. Arthur N. Beare as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Robert T. Corum as Part-time Instructor in French during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mrs. Deborah G. Hartley as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mrs. Nancy K. Kenney as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Jose Peman as Part-time Instructor in Government and Foreign Affairs, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Gerald D. Silk as Part-time Instructor in Art History, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Christopher P. Weaver as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the current academic year.

Mr. Thomas W. White as Part-time Instructor in Psychology, during the second semester of the current academic year.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. RICHARD A. FLOM
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Dr. Richard A. Flom as Assistant Professor of Radiology, as approved by the Board on January 29, 1974, be changed from September 1, 1974 to August 1, 1974.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Mr. Howard W. Allen as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. James Annicchiarico as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Miss Nancy E. Ballad as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-third time, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Stanley Berent as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology) , for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Lenard R. Berlanstein as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974. Mr. Berlanstein served as Lecturer during the 1973-1974 academic session.

Mr. John D. Boyd, II as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Bruno Braunrot as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Jay C. Brown as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Bruce C. Busching as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1974.

Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. James C. Dearing as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. James W. Earl as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Douglas P. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Robert E. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Engineering Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Dr. James G. Kavanaugh, Jr. , as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Samuel E. Kellams as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1,1974.

Mr. William W. Kerrigan as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Stephen K. Land as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. David W. Leslie as Assistant Professorof Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Clayton D. Lewis as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Nancy P. McKinney as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective January 14, 1974.

Mr. Charles L. Perdue, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Anthropology and of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Robin K. Ransone as Visiting Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. John F. Reynolds as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1,1974.

Mr. Burke M. Smith as Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology) , for three years, effective July 1, 1974

Mr. Andres Steinmetz as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Ernest W. Sullins as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year; effective July 1, 1974.

Mrs. Ewa H. Thompson as Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. David B. Waters as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. David E. Winter as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MISS LENORE STREET
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Miss Lenore Street as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, as approved by the Board on January 24, 1974, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Miss Helen L. Anthony, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, affective July 1, 1974

Mr. Paul Barolsky, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Alice G. Bauer, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective July 1, 1974.

Mrs. Jeanne C. Biggar, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Harvey E. Bines Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. George W. Black, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1975.

Miss Jean N. Bonin, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard J. Bonnie, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1974

Mr. Edgar K. Browning, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1975

Miss Joan S. Crane, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Charles R. Davis, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Ronald G. Dimberg, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Kenneth C. Elzinga, Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Edwin E. Erickson, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology and of Sociology effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Thomas H. Estes, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Charles L. Frieden, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mrs. Lois Z. Garren, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Michael J. Graetz, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Willard W. Harrison, Associate Professor to Professor of chemistry, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. George M. Hornberger, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1975.

Mr. Alexander B. Horniman, Associate Professor to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Robert J. Huskey, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Ira D. Jacobson, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Robert A. Johnson, Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Johnny L. Junkins, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Mahlon G. Kelly, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1975.

Mrs. Mary Alice Kraehe, Instructor, General Faculty, one-half time, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, one-half time, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Kenneth N. LaFleur, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Jen-Shih Lee, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard B. Martin, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Miss Eleanor G. May, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1974,

Mr. Michael B. McMahon Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. Douglas G. Mook, Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Raymond J. Nelson, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. William E. Odum, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1975.

Miss Edwina H. Pancake, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. James S. Payne, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr. , Associate Professor to Professor of Landscape Architecture, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Steven F. Rhoads, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1975.

Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr.,Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Gilbert W. Roy, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chinese, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. David L. Rubin, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. John A. Ryland, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Stephen A. Saltzburg, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1974,

Mr. Edmund F. SantaVicca, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Charles F. Sargent, Associate Professor to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Zahrl G. Schoeny, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Associate Professor to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1974.

Mrs. Ingrid H. Soudek, Instructor to Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974,

Miss Ann L. Stauffenberg, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard J. Sundberg, Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1974.

Miss Mary Louise Thomas, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen, Associate Professor to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. George E. White, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Charles H. Whitebread, Associate Professor to Professor of Law, effective September 1, l974.

Mr. John J. Yiannias, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1974,

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Mr. Robert W. Artinian, Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to become Professor-in-charge of Sweet Briars Junior Year in France.

Mr. Richard Q. Bell, Professor of Psychology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974, to complete his duties at the National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda.

Mr. Ralph E. Biggadike, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to complete requirements of the D.B.A. degree, Harvard University.

Mr. Theodore Caplow, Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, without pay, to engage in field research.

Miss Rose Marie Chioni, Sadie Heath Cabiness Professor of Nursing, for the period February 1, 1974, through July 31, 1974, without pay, to complete her duties at the University of Wisconsin School of Nursing.

Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor in Guilin Rajah Chair of Theoretical Physics at Hebrew University, Jerusalem.

Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1. 1974, without pay, to accept a visiting professorship at the North European Management Institute, Oslo, Norway.

Miss Charlan J. Nemeth, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to accept a position as a postdoctoral fellow at the Battelle Seattle Research Center.

Mr. John F. Reynolds, Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research at Harvard University Library on edition of works of C.F. Gellert.

Mr. Marshall Shapo, Professor of Law, one- half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to attend the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, England.

Mr. Walter J. Wadlington, III, James Madison Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, without pay, to visit York University, Canada.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Mrs. Susan E. Bloomberg, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.

Dr. Richard W. Garnett, Jr., from Professor of Psychiatry, to Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, for three months, effective March 1, 1974.

Mr. Michael P. Murray, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period March 1, 1974 through May 31, 1976.

Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Charles L. Ross from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period February 1, 1974 through May 31, 1976.

Dr. Thomas H. Smith from Assistant Professor of Radiology, to Assistant Professor of Radiology and of Pediatrics, for the period February 1, 1974 through August 31, 1976.

Miss De1ba Winthrop from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign affairs, for the period January 16, 1974 through May 31, 1975.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Miss Ruth E. Brong, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective January 31, 1974, because of illness.

Mr. Frederick R. Cyphert, Professor of Education and Dean of the School of Education, effective June 30, 1974, to accept the Deanship of the College of Education, The Ohio State University.

Mr. Richard E. Ellis, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at State University of New York, Buffalo.

Dr. Richard W. Garnett, Jr. Professor of Psychiatry, effective February 28, 1974, to enter private practice.

Mr. D. Brock Hornby, Associate Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position with Perkins, Thompson, Hinckley, Thaxter, and Keddy.

Mr. Tom C. Kessinger, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at the University of Pennsylvania.

Mr. Allen M. Lefer, Professor of Physiology, effective August 31, 1974, to accept the Chairmanship of the Department of Physiology, Jefferson Medical College, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia.

Mr. Ian Macneil, Professor of Law, effective August 31, 1974, to return to Cornell University.

Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1974, to enter private practice.

Mr. Louis T. Rader as Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, effective June 30, 1974, for personal reasons.

Mr. Robert S. Stepleman, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective May 31, 1974, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

Miss Virginia L. Algyre as Acting Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period February 5, 1974 through June 30, 1974.

Mr. Martin Battestinna as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective July 1, 1974.

Miss Rose Marie Chioni as Dean, School of Nursing, for five years, effective February 1, 1974.

Mr. Richard C. Collins as Chairman, Division of City Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. William A. Elwood as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Jeffrey K. Hadden as Acting Chairman, Department of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Robert L. Kellogg as Chairman, Department of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Gordon E. Latta as Chairman, Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. David Morris as Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period February 1, 1974, through May 31, 1975.

Mr. Warren F. Schwartz as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

Mrs. Carol C. Sims as Acting Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period February 6, 1974 through June 30, 1974.

Mr. Richard J. Sundberg as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Alton L. Taylor as Director, Summer Session, for three years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Roy Wagner as Chairman, Department of Anthropology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. Edward J. White as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period February 1, 1974, through June 30, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

Mr. Robert F. Bryan as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for two months, effective July 1, 1974.

Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

Mr. George B. Thomas, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

DEATH OF MR. BARRON FOSTER BLACK
--------------------------------

Mr. Barron Foster Black died in Norfolk, Virginia on March 1, 1974. Mr. Black served on the Board of Visitors from 1944 to 1957, and was the Rector of the University of Virginia from 1950 to 1957.

DEATH OF DR. JAMES E. KINDRED
-----------------------------

Dr. James E. Kindred, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy, died on February 27, 1974. He served on the faculty of the University of Virginia from 1923 to 1964.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The president reported on the current status of the construction program. The Law School project is now scheduled for completion in time for the opening of the 1974-1975 session.

RESOLUTION ON CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
------------------------------------

The President explained that in order to avoid the effort of obtaining security clearances for each member of the Board, responsibility for classified information in connection with department of Defense contracts is delegated to a managerial group.

Under Industrial Security Regulations, a resolution designating the managerial group must be adopted each Lime the membership of the Board of Visitors is changed. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that as required under paragraph 22 d (2) and otherwise in the Industrial Security Manual, Department of Defense, the following persons be and they are hereby specifically and properly designated as the MANAGERIAL GROUP having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of User Agency Contracts;

Mr. David A. Shannon, Vice-President and Provost (Alternate Signatory)

Mr. Vincent Shea, Vice-President for Business and Finance (Alternate Signatory)

Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., University Comptroller (Principal Signatory)

Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Associate Provost for Research (Alternate Signatory)

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors does hereby delegate all of its duties and responsibilities pertaining to the protection of classified information to the Managerial Group named above. The Board of Visitors shall not require, shall not have, and can be effectively excluded from access to all classified information in the possession of the University and the members do not occupy positions that would enable them to affect adversely the University's policies or practices in the performance of classified contracts or programs for the User Agencies.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President outlined the highlights of General Assembly actions of importance to the University. He noted particularly that about $3 million had been added to the originally recommended appropriation for the biennium, and that the Eminent Scholars Fund is to be continued on a "sum sufficient" basis.

The President expressed satisfaction with the recently passed amendments to the Freedom of Information Act, and with new legislation related to the State Council of Higher Education.

USE OF THE TITLE "RESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSOR"
-----------------------------------------------

The President explained that on June 7, 1963, the Board of Visitors established the titles "Research Professor" and "Research Associate Professor" as faculty positions customarily funded from sponsored research funds.

On the recommendation of the President the following resolution was adopted;

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established the position of "Research Assistant Professor," which will customarily be funded from sponsored research funds, with duties to be prescribed by the appropriate dean.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF A VISITATION TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE BY A SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD ON APRIL 10-11, 1974
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that a special committee of the Board will visit Clinch Valley College on April 10-11, 1974.

The Committee is as follows:

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman

Mr. Warren B. French, Jr.

Mr. W. Wright Harrison

Mr. William E. Leggett

Mr. Edwin K. Mattern

Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr. Secretary,

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION HOSPITAL, SALEM, VIRGINIA, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following agreement between the Veterans Administration Hospital, Salem, Virginia, and the University of Virginia be and it is hereby ratified and approved.

TERMS OF AGREEMENT:

1\. The University of Virginia School of Medicine will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment or registration in its course of study because of race, color, sex, creed, or national origin.

2\. Nothing in this agreement is intended to he contrary to State or Federal laws; and in the event of conflict, the State and Federal laws will supersede this agreement.

3\. Civil actions arising from alleged negligence or wrongful conduct of house staff while engaged in patient care or related activities at VAH, Salem, Virginia will be considered and acted upon in accordance with the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 4116.

4\. This agreement may be terminated at any time upon the mutual consent of both parties or upon six (6) months notice given by either party. An annual review of policies and procedures will be made.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$70,252.64

Free service to Counties and Cities

$184,834.73

$255,087.37

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $255,037.37, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:

REPORT ON THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
----------------------------------------

The Legal Adviser reported on changes in the Freedom of Information Act as the result of amendments adopted by the General Assembly. After July 1, 1974 members of the Board must be available after meetings of the Board to discuss actions taken by the Board.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts and grants. He expressed the sincere appreciation of the University to those who contributed.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE C. BRUCE MORTON PROFESSORSHIP OF SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the C. Bruce Morton Professor- ship of Surgery.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TUBERCULOSIS FOUNDATION OF VIRGINIA CHAIR IN PULMONARY MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia Chair in Pulmonary Medicine.

CHANGES IN TUITION CHARGES
--------------------------

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAPROPOSED TUITION RATES1974-75

Virginians

Out of State

Current1973-74

Proposed1974-75

Current1973-74

Proposed1974-75

College, Commerce, Nursing, Education

415

415

1,240

1,340

Engineering & Architecture"

465

465

1,240

1,340

Graduate - A & S, Law, Engineering,Education, Architecture, Nursing,DBA in Graduate Business

Students Entering, Fall 1972 (or earlier)

450

450

1,150

1,250

Students Entering, Fall 1973

475

475

1,240

1,340

Students Entering, Fall 1974

\-

475

\-

1,340

School of Law

Students Entering, Fall 1972 (or earlier)

520

620/

1,495

1,595

Students Entering, Fall 1973

600

700

1,725

1,825

Students Entering, Fall 1974

700

\-

2,000

Graduate School of Business Administration

Students Entering, Fall 1973 (or earlier)

800

800

1,700

1,800

Students Entering, Fall 1974

\-

\-

\-

2,000

Medicine

900

900

2,100

2,200

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following tuition charges, to become effective for the 1974-1975 session, shall supersede all previous schedules and that they are hereby approved:

INCREASE IN THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that because of an increase in the cost of providing student health services the comprehensive fee be and it is hereby increased by $5.00, to become effective for the 1974-1975 Session.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT ON THE VIRGINIA AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN FOR EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that he has taken administrative action to apply Governor Godwin's Executive Order Number One on the Virginia Affirmative Action Plan For Equal Employment Opportunity to the Faculty at the University of Virginia.

APPLICATION TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION FUNDS FOR THE PRIMARY CARE CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them, is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for a grant to be used for the construction of the Primary Care Center.

MODIFICATION OF THE RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE RANK OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President explained that in 1957 the Board established 65 as the minimum age for the rank of Professor Emeritus, and that this provision may be a deterrent to professors who wish to retire between ages 60 and 64. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution of the Board establishing the rank of Professor Emeritus adopted on June 7, 1957 be and it is hereby modified to include candidates who are full professors retiring after attaining the age of 60 after at least 15 years of service in the University of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY AT THE MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Stainback and Scribner of Charlottesville be and it is approved as the architects for the Radioactive Waste Management Facility at the Medical Center.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT FOR THE ADDITION TO THE UROLOGY AND ORTHOPEDICS DEPARTMENTS' ADDITION TO THE MEDICAL CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Jack Rinehart of Charlottesville be and it is hereby approved as the Architect for the addition to the Urology and Orthopedics Departments' addition to the Medical Center.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE STUDENT UNION BUILDING AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Smithey and Boynton of Roanoke associated with Charles McElroy of Wise, be and it is hereby approved as Architects for the Student Union Building at Clinch Valley College.

RATIFICATION OF THE PLAN FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN VIRGINIA'S INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Plan For Equal Opportunity in Virginia Institutions of Higher Education dated February 9, 1974, be and it is hereby ratified and approved. It is included as Appendix 1. to these minutes.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:00 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Raymond C. Bice, Jr.,

Secretary

RCB:aa

APPENDIX 1.THE PLAN FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN VIRGINIA'S INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION February 9, 1974I. INTRODUCTIONA. Virginia's Continuing CommitmentB. Background for the PlanC. Responsibility for the Plan's Development, Implementation, and MonitoringII. OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURE OF THE PLANIII. INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONSIV. STATEWIDE ACTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Association

Sphere of Activities

Virginia Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers

Admissions, Student Records

Virginia College Personnel Association

Housin, Veterans' Affairs, Counseling Activities, General Student Services

Virginia Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators

Financial Aid

Virginia Personnel and Guidance Association

Secondary School Guidance Counselors

On December 2, 1969, Mr. Leon Panetta, Director of the Office of Civil Rights of the U. S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, wrote to Governor Mills E. Godwin calling for a desegregation plan for Virginia's institutions of higher education. During the Spring and Summer of 1970, members of the Governor's office, college officials and the State Council of Higher Education worked to develop a plan to insure that Virginia was in full compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. A plan was submitted to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in December 1970. Throughout 1971, 1972 and the early months of 1973, no correspondence was received from the Department of Health, Education and Welfare regarding the 1970 plan. On March 27, 1973, Mr. Peter Holmes, Director of the Office of Civil Rights, inc letter to Governor Holton, indicated that the 1970 plan was not satisfactory and requested additional information relating primarily to 1971 and 1972. On April 20, 1973, Governor Holton responded to the Office of Civil Rights stating his firm belief that Virginia is in full compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and providing extensive details on developments during 1971-72.

On May 21, 1973, the Office of Civil Rights formally notified Governor Holton that in its opinion "Virginia's dual system (of higher education) has not yet been fully disestablished." This correspondence also requested additional data and additional actions planned by the State. On June 11, 1973, Governor Holton in a letter to the Office of Civil Rights supplied extensive additional information and actions taken and proposed by the Commonwealth which supported his "strong conviction that Virginia is in full compliance." On November 10, 1973, the Office of Civil Rights notified Governor Holton that Virginia's proposed actions

fall short of compliance with Title VI and that a revised plan be submitted for Virginia by February 9, 1974. In addition, on November 5, 1973, Governor Horton supplied data pertaining to institutional faculty affirmative action plans.

Thus, the plan presented here is not a new plan for Virginia's institutions of higher education, nor is it the first such plan submitted to the Office of Civil Rights. Rather, it represents a continuing commitment on the part of the Commonwealth to guarantee to its citizens equal opportunity in all acclivities relating to institutions of higher education. Although many of the specific plans mentioned herein indicate continuing commitments on the part of the Commonwealth, It should be clearly under- stood that they are intended to augment plans proposed in earlier submissions to the Office of Civil Rights and should not be considered as a new and/or different plan for guaranteeing equal opportunity.

Virginia currently maintains 39 state-supported institutions of higher education. Fifteen are senior colleges and universities, 23 are community colleges which have a total of 31 campuses, and one is a two-year liberal arts branch college. These institutions are listed in Appendix A; "Institutions of Higher Education in Virginia, 1973-74", which also includes a listing of the privately supported institutions of higher education in Virginia and a map showing the location of each institution.

These 39 state-supported institutions are governed by separate and independent boards of visitors. AU four-year colleges and universities have their own separate governing board except Christopher Newport College (which is governed by the Board of Visitors of The College of William and Mary) and Clinch Valley College (which is governed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia). All two-year community colleges are governed by a single board, the State Board for Community Colleges. Richard Bland College, a two-year liberal arts branch college, is governed by the Board of Visitors of The College of William and Mary. The responsibilities of each governing board are specified in the Code of Virginia.

Copies of the Code sections which specify board responsibilities are attached as Appendix B. Appendix B also includes a description by race of the individual boards of visitors and a state organizational chart listing the state agencies involved in higher education. This information is in direct response to the request in the November 10 letter.

In order to provide a "sound, vigorous, pro9ressive and coordinated system of higher education", the General Assembly in 1956 erected the State Council of Higher Education. The Council of Higher Education serves to coordinate the activities of the Individual institutions, but should not be construed as a controlling board with authority over individual institutions. The Code of Virginia is very specific as to this point and, in Section 23-9.14, clearly states that the Council's actions may not infringe on the duties of the boards of visitors except as specified in the Code. A copy of those portions of the Code specifying the Council's authorities and respon- sibilities is attached as Appendix C.

The individual governing boards of the institutions have full authority and responsibility for

a) setting the mission of the institution within the parameters defined by the Code of Virginia;

b) recruitment, admission, and grading of students;

c) recruitment, retention, and promotion of faculty.

The State Council of Higher Education has final authority and responsibility for

a) approving the initiation of any new academic program at any state-supported institution;

b) collecting any data deemed necessary to provide semi-annually to the Office of Civil Rights of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

In addition, the Council has responsibility for making recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly on the financial requests of the institutions.

In summary, the system of higher education in Virginia operates on the principle of separate institutional governance.

The Council of Higher Education, in ifs coordinating role, maintains a series of advisory committees. These committees are organized around functional areas of higher education and include

a) General Professional Advisory Committee

b) Instructional Programs Advisory Committee

c) Library Advisory Committee

d) Health Professions and Occupations Advisory Committee

e) Admissions and Articulation Advisory Committee

f) Continuing Education Advisory Committee

g) Research and Development Advisory Committee

h) Finance Advisory Committee.

These committees provide formal opportunities for institutions to share ideas and discuss problems of common interest. In addition, they provide valuable information to the Council, enabling it to serve more effectively as an advisory body to the Governor and the General Assembly.

With this as background, the Plan for Equal Opportunity in Virginia's Institutions of Higher Education represents the combined efforts of the individual institutions and the Council of Higher Education, each taking those affirmative actions designed to guarantee equal opportunity which ore consistent with their respective authorities.

Development of the Plan

By letter dated December 21, 1973, Governor Holton assigned the Council of Higher Education responsibility for developing further the state plan for equal opportunity and assisting the institutions with its implementation." The plan which was submitted on June 11, 1973, and the additional material presented here have been developed jointly by the individual institutions and by the Council of Higher

Education. The plan as presented herein will be submitted lo the individual governing boards and the Council of Higher Education for their ratification.

Implementation of the Plan

The principal implementers of the plan will be the individual Institutions of higher education and the Council of Higher Education.

Monitoring the Plan

Individual institutions wilt collect and analyze data for self-evaluation, and will report to the Council of Higher Education as required. The Council will collect and analyze data on a statewide level, and will prepare semi-annual reports, as required, for the U. S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

The Plan for Equal Opportunity in Virginia's Institutions of Higher Education Is a logical extension of the Commonwealths continuing program of affirmative actions. Virginia has undertaken a continuous program for equal opportunity. This program has been characterized by actions such as the issuance and implementation of Executive Order No. 29, the Virginia Plan for Equal Employment Opportunity, the appointment of black members to boards of visitors of the State's colleges and universities and to the State Council of Higher Education, significant increases in minority student enrollments, development and refinement of university-wide affirmative action plans, and, most recently, the designation of the State Council of Higher Education to serve in a statewide equal opportunity coordinating capacity. This plan draws extensively upon the previously established and on-going programs of the State's individual institutions while making provisions for the establishment of new institutional programs. In addition, this plan brings further statewide coordination to the individual institutional plans.

While the plan consists of specific action statements, these statements contribute to achieving a series of overall objectives. These objectives are broadly stated here, but means for achieving them ore detailed throughout the plan.

A. Objectives

1\. The plan is intended to make Virginia's institutions of higher education accessible to all citizens of the Commonwealth who wish to study at them. Student choice of institutions should be determined by academic program offerings, institutional location, type of extra-curricular activities other similar criteria. The racial composition of institutional student bodies and Faculties should not be a Criterion of choice.

2\. The plan is intended to increase the number of minority group persons in faculty and administrative positions within Virginia's institutions of higher education. Planning at the institutional level will focus on attracting minority group persons and on developing their skills and evaluating them for retention and promotion.

3\. The plan is intended to coordinate the academic development of the institutions so that the distribution of programs is the best possible for equal opportunity in higher education. The Council of Higher Education will bear primary responsibility for fulfilling this objective as it conducts its reviews of proposals for new academic programs and of academic program productivity.

4\. The plan includes provisions for monitoring and evaluation, both on the institutional level and the statewide level. These provisions will ensure that the plan remains flexible and can be changed as opportunities for improve- ment arise.

5\. The plan is intended to encourage specific programs of cooperation among institutions, including joint academic programs, exchanges of faculty and students, the development of credit transfer agreements and the design of non-traditional academic degree programs.

B. Structure

Because of the statutory responsibilities of Virginia's institutional governing boards and the statewide coordinating board, the actions required to achieve the objectives of the plan will be both of an instructional nature and of a statewide nature. Therefore, it is logical to present the action phase of the plan in two major sections. The first will describe the institutional actions for which the individual institutional governing boards have ultimate responsibility. The second major section will describe the role of the statewide coordinating board, the State Council of Higher Education, stating the actions for which it will have direct responsibility and those for which it will serve in a coordinating role. Each section will address the same major areas: students; faculty and staff; academic programs; cooperative programs; and monitoring and evaluation.

In a meeting with Virginia officials on December 13, 1973, Mr. Peter Holmes, Director of the Office of Civil Rights, Department of Health, Education and Welfare, indicated that the institutional statements submitted on June 11 should be considered acceptable by Virginia officials with the exception of those matters specifically mentioned in his letter of November 10, 1973, to Governor Linwood Holton. Therefore, the additional material submitted for individual institutions largely relates to the subsections on academic programs and cooperative programs. Additional institutional statements concerning the subsections on students are included for those institutions specifically mentioned in the November 10 letter.

A. Students

On June 11, 1973, comprehensive statements on minority student recruit- ment and retention were submitted to the Office of Civil Rights by each state- supported Institution of higher education in the Commonwealth. The statements outlined on-going as well as projected activities in this important area. Additional

information on affirmative action effortsin the area of student recruitment and retention is presented For Christopher Newport College, Madison College and Virginia Military Institute. This additional information, when considered along with that material submitted earlier to the Office of Civil Rights, constitutes institutional planning efforts in this important urea. See Appendix D.

B. Faculty and Staff

On June 11, 1973, in an attachment to Governor Holton's response to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, statements from each state-supported institution of higher education were provided outlining affirmative actions taken or proposed to be taken by the institutions, In addition, a commitment was mode to secure boards of visitors' approval of the Governor's Executive Order No. 29 for use with college faculty members; That commitment has been fulfilled, and on November 5, Governor Holton submitted extensive data to the Office of Civil Rights with reference to faculty affirmative action plans.

Executive Order No. 29 required boards of visitors' approval in order that it would become applicable to college faculties, because college Faculties are exempt from the State's standard personnel policies and procedures. All non- college personnel are subject to the State's personnel \*policies and procedures and have been covered by the provisions of Executive Order No. 29 since its issuance by Governor Holton.

Governor Godwin, on January 14, reaffirmed his commitment to equal employment opportunities and issued an Executive Order on February 6, 1974, supplanting and strengthening the provisions of Executive Order No. 29 issued by Governor Holton. On February 7, 1974, Governor Godwin requested the boards of Visitors to approve and implement Executive Order No. 1 for application to faculty members of state-supported institutions. Final approval of the boards of visitors will be reported to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare by July 1, 1974.

C. Academic Programs

The availability of academic programs at a particular institution dramatically

influences students' choices of institutions. Each institution of higher education has a thorough internal procedure, involving Faculty consideration and approval, before a new program is ever proposed to the Council of Higher Education for its consideration. A program is developed and discussed for as long as eighteen months internally before entering the two-year review cycle of the Council of Higher Educating. Statements describing each institution's internal academic program review procedure are attached in Appendix F.

The Council of Higher Education's "Policy and Procedures for Academic Program Approval" is presently being revised by an advisory committee of academic deans, provosts and vice presidents of the state-supported institutions at the direction of the Council. The Council will approve the revised document for use beginning with the next academic program review cycle.

As part of the new "Policy and Procedures for Academic Program Approval", the proposing institution will be required to submit its assessment of the program's potential impact on its equal opportunity efforts. The State Council of Higher Education will notify au State institutions that a letter of intent has been submitted for such a particular program and ask them to express their reactions to the program being proposed. The Council of Higher Education will examine the institution's assessment of the program's impact, consider the responses of other institutions, and make a judgment about the program from a statewide perspective. A copy of the existing Council of Higher Education's "Policy and Procedures For Academic Program Approval" is attached as Appendix G.

D. Cooperative Programs

Cooperative programs currently under way and/or protected by the institutions of higher education were included in institutional statements on students and faculty presented to the Office of Civil Rights on June 11, 1973. Because cooperative programs were not specifically identified in the planning efforts on June 11, a more detailed summary of inter-institutional cooperative efforts currently under way or planned for initiation in the near future is attached to this document

as Appendix H. Such inter-institutional cooperative arrangements for students and faculty increase the opportunities of n4nority students and faculty in Virginia's Institutions of higher education and better facilitate other affirmative actions men- tioned in the plan.

E. Monitoring and Evaluation

Each institution will monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of its affirmative action plans. Data concerning students and faculty and staff will be collected and analyzed by each institution. Minority student information will be collected and analyzed for undergraduate, graduate and professional students in the following areas:

a) admissions

b) enrollment: by full time - part time

c) financial

d) retention and graduation.

Minority faculty information will be collected and analyzed for all academic ranks in the following areas:

a) recruitment and selection

b) salary information

c) promotion

d) termination information.

Information will also be collected and analyzed for classified staff in accordance with the policies of Executive Order No. 29, the Virginia Equal Employment Opportunity Plan.

Based on the analysis of the data collected in these and other areas, each institution will evaluate semi-annually the progress of its affirmative action plans and submit such evaluation to the State Council of Higher Education.

The Council's role in the Plan for Equal Opportunity in Virginia's Institutions of Higher Education is to assist the institutions in their equal opportunity efforts, to coordinate the activities of the institutions so as to achieve the greatest possible efficiency and effectiveness, and to regulate the development of new academic programs so they will have a positive impact on equal opportunity in the institutions. The Council has authorization to augment its staff in order that work in this important area can be increased.

A. Students

In the area of recruitment, admission and general student services, the Council of Higher Education will use ifs relationships with professional associations in the State to assist the men and women who are directly responsible for activities in these areas. Council staff members will work with the officers of these associations, attend membership meetings and offer the Council's services in a consultative capacity. They will conduct seminars and workshops as appropriate. Among the associations with which the Council will work are these:

AssociationSphere of ActivitiesVirginia Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions OfficersAdmissions, Student RecordsVirginia College Personnel AssociationHousin, Veterans' Affairs, Counseling Activities, General Student ServicesVirginia Association of Student Financial Aid AdministratorsFinancial AidVirginia Personnel and Guidance AssociationSecondary School Guidance Counselors

In addition, the Council staff will work with the respective institutions, assisting in planning, implementing and evaluating equal opportunity programs as they are developed by the institutions.

Although this plan provides both institutional and statewide mechanisms to increase minority students in predominantly white institutions, the plan must also speak to attracting white students to Virginia's predominantly black institutions. The Council staff will make a special effort to work with secondary school guidance counselors and college and university admissions officers as they arrange "College Days:" (which have been an annual part of institutional recruiting efforts) each Fall to introduce high school seniors to the opportunities offered by the various state-supported institutions. The Council will especially seek to emphasize the unique opportunities available at the predominantly black institutions. Predominantly black institutions will be given the same opportunities as predominantly white institutions to meet with white students and guidance counselors. Financial aid opportunities at predominantly black institutions will be made known to all students.

The Council staff will also conduct briefing sessions with college and Uni- versity admissions officers to acquaint them with population trends, demographic distribution of minority group persons, state financial aid programs, and other pertinent matters.

In addition, mindful of the fact that the college-going rate of students from minority groups is not as high as that of white students, the Council staff will contact guidance counselors of secondary schools with significant numbers of minority group students each Fall to offer assistance and information which may encourage applications to Virginia's colleges and universities.

While increased recruiting activity may increase the college-going rate of minority group students, it is clear that a young person's aspiration level is a product of a complex variety of factors; among these factors is the educational experience of the young person from kindergarten through secondary school. Poor experiences cannot be undone by intensive recruiting alone.

Therefore, the Council will undertake, with the cooperation of the Teacher Education Advisory Committee of the State Deportment of Education, a review of all teacher training programs in Virginia's state-supported institutions of higher education. Primary consideration will be given to the quality and amount of training which teachers receive to prepare them to teach minority group students with the greatest possible effectiveness. The need for continuing education offerings that are available to teachers already in the Field will also be given careful attention.

The Council will seek financial support for this review from state and federal sources. The review will begin not later than July 1, 1974, and will be completed not later than June 30, 1975.

B. Faculty and Staff

In the areas of faculty and administrative staff recruitment and development, the Council will prepare and maintain a comprehensive history of positions which the institutions of higher education ore attempting to fill. Each Fall, the Council will make this listing available to professional associations which have expressed a commitment to assist women and persons from minority groups in their search for faculty or administrative positions. The Council staff will also distribute recruiting materials about opportunities in Virginia's institutions of higher education to graduate schools throughout the nation and will circulate resume's which ore received through contacts with minority group persons or organizations.

One of the major problems facing colleges and universities as they seek to increase the number of minority group persons employed as faculty and staff is the shortage of such per5ons in an extremely competitive market. In order to assist Virginia's state-supported institutions of higher education in their recruitment efforts, the Council will design and seek funding for two specific programs which could increase the number of minority group men and women who ore qualified for faculty and staff positions. Obviously, these programs will be designed in close cooperation with the institutions themselves and will have their support. Funding will be sought from state and federal sources as well as from foundations.

The first program will enable minority group persons who presently hold faculty or staff positions but who have not earned terminal degrees to pursue these degrees at one of Virginia's doctoral degree granting institutions. Faculty and staff members will be selected for participation in this program on the basis of their qualifications and will be admitted to one of Virginia's doctoral degree granting institutions which offers appropriate graduate programs. They will receive cost of living stipends which will enable them to work on their degrees during the summer months. In addition, where possible to do so, the doctoral degree granting institutions will arrange programs of study that place heavy emphasis on independent work. This will enable participants in the program to work toward their degrees during the regular academic year.

In planning this program, and in determining the Fields of study which will be included within it, the State Council of Higher Education and participating institutions will survey those employed at Virginia's institutions to determine the potential number of participants and will project Faculty and staff personnel requirements in Virginia's institutions. It is anticipated that planning for this program will be completed by September 30, 1974, after which time funding proposals will be submitted to appropriate government agencies and foundations.

The second program will seek to identify promising students who are at least interested in looking seriously at the possibility of graduate work and academic careers.

Beginning at the end of their junior year in college, it will offer these students an intensive summer program designed to enrich their undergraduate educations and to give them an experience similar to that of graduate study. At the same time, the program will seek to introduce these students to the possibility of academic careers.

The doctoral degree granting institutions will offer the intensive summer programs. It is possible that participating students may also be permitted to spend one or more terms of the regular school year at a doctoral degree granting institution. Minority group students from all of Virginia's state-supported colleges and universities will be eligible to participate in this program.

The program will be designed to assist students who participate in this program to determine whether they ore interested in academic careers. In addition, Faculty members at the doctoral degree granting institutions at which they study will evaluate the students and advise them candidly about their potential. In addition, students participating in the program will receive valuable information which could assist them in gaining admission to graduate school. All of Virginia's state-supported institutions will cooperate closely with the Council in the design of this program. It is anticipated that planning For this program will be completed by September 30, 1974, after which funding proposals will be submitted to appropriate government agencies and foundations.

Faculty and staff development is an important aspect of equal opportunity. Again, because faculty personnel policies are the statutory responsibility of institutional boards of visitors, the Council's role will be mainly advisory. The Council will monitor efforts in this area and will distribute information about promising approaches to all the institutions of higher education in the State.

C. Academic Programs

The Council of Higher Education will review each academic program proposed for initiation by Virginia's institutions of higher education and will assess the proposed programs' impact on equal opportunity efforts throughout the commonwealth The Council will pay particular attention to the unnecessary duplication of academic programs between predominantly black and predominantly white institutions.

As stated earlier, the Council will approve by July 1, 1974, a revised "Policy and Procedures for Academic Program Approval" to be used in the next cycle of academic program proposal review. A new criterion in this document will be that the proposed academic program will be evaluated to determine its impact of equal opportunity efforts.

The availability of specific academic programs influences a student's decision about the institution he or she will attend. The program planning staff of the Council of

Higher Education will work directly with the predominantly block institutions to assist them in program planning and development. The unique academic programs in these institutions will be emphasized and promoted to attract additional white students to these institutions. In addition to assisting the predominantly block institutions with programs already in operation, the Council staff will assist these institutions to develop additional programs which will be attractive to white students and which will not be duplicative of those already offered by predominantly white institutions.

Finally, the Council wilt work with the six regional consortia for continuing education, seeking to ensure that citizens from minority groups have equal access to continuing education. The Council staff will assist the consortia members in choosing sites for off-campus work that ore accessible to minority group persons.

In that portion of the plan submitted on June 11, it was stated that a com- prehensive master plan for higher education was being developed by the State Council of Higher Education. Appendix I, "The Virginia Plan for Higher Education," has been completed. It represents the combined efforts of the public and private institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth and the State Council of Higher Education. This plan includes planning statements for each of the public and private institutions. These statements are provided in response to the specific request made in the Office of Civil Rights letter of November 10.

In addition, the November 10 letter requested that a complete listing of academic programs offered by Virginia's institutions of higher education be provided to the Office of Civil Rights. Appendix J, "Higher Education in Virginia, Selected Characteristics, Degree Programs, Student Fees in Public and Private Institutions, 1973-74," shows each program and degree level offered by Virginia's public and private institutions.

D. Cooperative Programs

In the area of cooperative arrangements between and among institutions, the Council will suggest appropriate arrangements and will assist the institutions

involved in solving problems that might exist at the state level. The Council will also give special consideration to proposals For academic programs which are jointly sponsored by two or more institutions and which further the equal opportunity efforts of the institutions involved.

E. Monitoring and Evaluation

The Commonwealth of Virginia and its institutions of higher education are committed to those affirmative actions necessary to guarantee fully equal opportunity in all aspects of higher education. The State Council of Higher Education will serve as the statewide agency for the consolidation of all statistical activities related to this plan. This function is consistent with the provisions of Section 23-9.6 of the Code of Virginia which charges the Council with the "duty of assembling data". After receiving and analyzing data from the individual institutions, the Council of Higher Education will evaluate the affirmative actions of each institution and, when appropriate, make recommendations to the institutions on possible ways of increasing the effectiveness of their efforts.

In addition to assembling and analyzing data provided to the Council by the individual institutions, the Council will regularly assess the effectiveness of those portions of the plan For which the Council has final authority. The Council of Higher Education will be the state agency responsible for preparing semi-annual reports of the State's efforts and accomplishments as related to the plan.
