---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1976'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1976) March 26, 1976
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 26, 1976

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES (TENTATIVE) Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 26, 1976
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was called to order at 1:30 p.m. in Executive Session, by Acting Rector William S. Potter on March 26, 1976, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. The following persons were present: Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, Donald. E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: William C. Battle and Warren B. French, Jr. The Secretary was present throughout the meeting.

WELCOMING OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
-----------------------------

Acting Rector William S. Potter Welcomed Mr. William M. Dudley whose appointment to the Board of Visitors was announced by Governor Mills Godwin on March 3, 1976.

RESOLUTION OF CONDOLENCE TO VISITOR WARREN B. FRENCH, JR.
---------------------------------------------------------

The Board unanimously adopted a resolution of condolence to Visitor Warren B. French, Jr. on the death of his mother, and requested that expressions of sincere sympathy be conveyed to Mr. French.

ELECTION OF THE RECTOR
----------------------

Mr. William L. Zimmer, III, was unanimously elected as Rector of the University of Virginia to fill an unexpired term as prescribed in Section 4.13 of the Manual.

Following the election, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Avery Catlin, Vincent Shea, Kenneth R. Crispell, and Ernest H. Ern came into the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 23, 1976, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONSElection of Faculty - No SalaryElection of Part-time Faculty
---------------------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE TERM OF ELECTION OF DR. SIBU P. SAHA
------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON MARCH 14, 1975
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON MARCH 14, 1975
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE OF TITLE
-------------------------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATHS OF DR. OSCAR SWINEFORD AND MR. FREDERIC TURNBULL WOOD
------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WALTER M. SEWARD PROFESSORSHIP IN FAMILY MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1977
-----------------------------------

The President explained that the dates for 1977 meetings proposed in the Docket are no longer appropriate in the light of recently received information. Following discussion, it was generally agreed to hold 1977 Board meetings on Fridays and Saturdays, and that when necessary the fall meeting might be scheduled on a weekend when no home football game was being played. The President spoke also of the desirability of visits to the various schools in the University from time to time.

RETIREMENT POLICY
-----------------

REPORT ON THE 1976 GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------

The President expressed concern because the recently adjourned General Assembly had funded almost no capital outlay for the University. He also expressed concern about the failure of the General Assembly to provide matching funds for some of the gifts that the University has solicited for eminent scholars. Mr. Shea explained the "70/30" legislative provisions that prescribes the proportion of operating funds to be borne by tuition payments. This provision has made tuition increases necessary.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the status of construction projects at the University. He noted that the restoration of the Rotunda is essentially completed and that it will be dedicated on April 13, 1976. Vice-President Catlin advised that the freeze that has been in effect on the renovation of the Cobb Building has been lifted.

REPORT ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COUNCIL OF VISITORS
----------------------------------------------------

Mr. Robert P. Buford reported that he had, on request of the Rector, attended a meeting of representatives of seven or eight Boards of Visitors in the State to discuss the formation of a Council of Visitors for the State. It was proposed that the Rector, Assistant Rector, or a designated Board member from each of the institutions of higher education in the State form a body to be known as the Council of Visitors.

The Council would establish a forum for communications between the members of the Boards of Visitors of the several institutions and friends of higher education to facilitate the sharing of experiences and the development of mutual policy where indicated, and to serve in a consultative capacity to the Council of Presidents, and certain other functions.

The Board determined that it should be represented. The Rector, the President, and Mr. Buford will attend the organizational meeting on April 14, 1976.

LEAVE POLICY FOR LIBRARY FACULTY
--------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$285,608.97

Free service to Counties and Cities

505,197.25

\------------

Total

$790,806.22

APPROVAL OF LETTER OF INTENT FOR A DEGREE PROGRAM IN COMPARATIVE LITERATURE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

INCREASES IN TUITIONSCHOOL OF MEDICINE
--------------------------------------

Virginians

Out-of State

All Schools except Medicine

1976-77

$40

$200

1977-78

50

50

Biennium Increase

$90

$250

Actual 1975-76

1976-77

1977-78

Virginia

$1,175

Students Entering Fall 1976 (and Fall 1977)

$1,600

$1,600

Students Entered Before 1976

1,285

1,420

Out-of-State

2,650

Students Entering Fall 1976 (and Fall 1977)

3,600

3,600

Students Entered Before 1976

2,900

3,200

All Virginia students will be charged $1,600 by Fall 1978. All out-of-State students will be charged $3,600 by Fall 1978.

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------

Tuition

Current 1976-76

Proposed 1976-77

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$21

$27

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Graduate Per Semester Hour

24

27

Graduate Courses as part of Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

40

40

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the School of Continuing Education to On-Grounds Courses:

Per Semester Hour

20

\--

1-3 Credit Hours Per Semester

\--

82.50

4-8 Credit Hours Per Semester

\--

160

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10

10

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5

5

change of Status Fee

5

5

Transcript Fee

2

2

Late Registration Fee

5

5

Late Exam Fee

5

5

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGECLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE - continued
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginians

Out-of-State

Tuition

Current 1975-76

Proposed 1976-77

Current 1975-76

Proposed 1976-77

Full-Time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$370

$450

$470

$600

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional credit hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-Time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate Per Semester Hour

$ 16

$ 19

$ 20

$ 25

Off-Campus Instruction

Credit Courses

Rate Per Semester Hour

$ 16

$ 19

$ 20

$ 25

Non-Credit Courses

Rate Per CEU

11

13

14

17

Fees

Current 1975-76

Proposed 1976-77

Comprehensive Fee

Students enrolled in 5 or more credit hours per semester (session rate)

$50

(a) (a)Student activity fee will replace comprehensive fee.

Students enrolled in less than 5 credit hours per semester (session rate)

10

(a)

Student Activity Fee

Proposed (New) 1976-77

Full-Time Students (session rate)

$70

Part-Time Students (less than 12 credit hours per semester) (session rate)

10

FeesCurrent 1975-76Proposed 1976-77Comprehensive FeeStudents enrolled in 5 or more credit hours per semester (session rate)$50(a) (a)Student activity fee will replace comprehensive fee. Students enrolled in less than 5 credit hours per semester (session rate)10(a)

Student activity fee will replace comprehensive fee.

Student Activity FeeProposed (New) 1976-77Full-Time Students (session rate)$70Part-Time Students (less than 12 credit hours per semester) (session rate)10

UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS
------------------------------

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING A SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO IMPROVE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE BOARD AND THE STUDENT BODY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF POLICY STATEMENT ON USE OF THE CENTRAL GROUNDSGeneral Statement:ROTUNDA - GENERALROTUNDA - DOME ROOMROTUNDA - MAIN LEVEL - WEST OVAL ROOMROTUNDA - MAIN LEVEL - EAST OVAL ROOMROTUNDA - MAIN LEVEL - NORTH OVAL ROOMROTUNDA - LOWER LEVEL - EAST OVAL ROOMROTUNDA - LOWER LEVEL - WEST OVAL ROOMROTUNDA - LOWER LEVEL - NORTH OVAL ROOMHISTORIC CENTRAL GROUNDS - THE LAWNHISTORIC CENTRAL GROUNDS - THE GARDENSRESERVATIONS -
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Historic Central Grounds, consisting of the Rotunda, the Lawn, the Amphitheatre and the Pavilion Gardens, is the focal point of interest for visitors to this institution as well as for members of the University community. Emphasis is placed upon accessibility. This area and these facilities are to be enjoyed by the public they attract. The Gardens and the Lawn are primarily for viewing, and traffic and use which would encroach upon the planted areas are to be discouraged. A certain dignity is to be observed in the use of the Rotunda. It is not to stand as a sterile shrine, neither is it to be envisaged as an auxiliary lecture hall nor a substitute student union.

These statements of policy shall be reviewed periodically by a standing committee, known as the Historic Central Grounds Committee, which may make recommendations for changes to the President. Until changed, they are to be administered by the Curator of the Historic Central Grounds.

The restored Rotunda will permanently house furnishings of great value and a substantial segment of the University's first library collection, which Mr. Jefferson assembled. From time to time other valuable collections will be exhibited. As a consequence, security measures will be required with attendants on hand to insure their effectiveness.

Occasionally the Dome Room may be in use while the building is open, and the interior design makes it impossible to secure it. Stands should be placed on the stairways notifying visitors when the Dome Room is temporarily closed.

The Rotunda will normally be locked at 5:00 p.m. for the night. If any room is reserved for use after 5:00 p.m., security guards will be on duty in the Rotunda and the cost of this security service will be charged to the organization making the reservation.

When a request is made for room reservation, the Curator may consult with the Historic Central Grounds Committee to determine if the proposed use is in compliance with this policy. The denial of a reservation request by the Curator may be appealed through normal administrative channels.

Guided tours of the Dome Room will be available when the room is not reserved for special occasions. Such occasions might include University-wide receptions and dinners, special ceremonies, and official entertainment of groups by the President. In each case, the occasion should be of such importance and general interest to the University community as to warrant the special recognition of a Rotunda presentation.

Requests for reservations may be made to the Curator who will schedule the use of this room.

There will be a use charge for each reserved use of the Dome Room, plus an hourly security charge after 5:00 p.m. The capacity of the room for banquet use is 134 persons; for receptions, 170 persons. Food and beverages served in the Dome Room are to be obtained through and served by University Food Services.

This room will be furnished as a ceremonial office and will be occupied by the Chairman of the Bicentennial Committee during 1976. Its primary use is that of a ceremonial office for the President of the University, an appropriate place to greet visiting dignitaries.

The Curator of the Rotunda will have a desk in this room after 1976. The room itself will be on view to the public.

This room is designated as the Board of Visitors room and can seat 30 persons at its conference table. Its primary use is that of a meeting room for the Board. On certain special occasions, it may be scheduled by the Curator for other meetings.

When not in use for meetings, this room will be on view to the public.

This room will be used as a conference room and can accommodate 15 persons. A desk for the Curator may be located here during 1976. The Curator will schedule the use of this room.

This room has a seating capacity of 110 persons. Furnished with chairs and display cases, it will be used primarily as a visitors' center and assigned to the University Guide Service.

This room may be reserved for lectures and meetings of University-wide appeal. Use of the room for honor trials will have priority over other uses.

This room will be scheduled by the Curator and any food or beverages served must be obtained through and served by University Food Services. Seating capacity of the room is 110 persons.

This room will be used as a conference room and will be scheduled by the Curator. The north door will normally be kept locked.

Any formal use of the Lawn other than for academic processions is discouraged. In particular, the Lawn should not be used as an athletic playing field. The Amphitheatre is to be appropriately used for outdoor events.

The gardens of the Pavilions are public areas. Those garden areas adjacent to the Pavilions are not required to be open to the public at all times. They are to be open when not in personal use, and they must be open on certain occasions, e.g., Garden Week. To temporarily close these gardens for personal use by the Pavilion residents, an appropriate sign may be placed upon the gates notifying the public. Where a garden is divided into two portions by an intervening wall, the remote section shall be open to the public at all times. The use of the gardens for social gatherings of University organizations is to be permitted where consistent with the occupancy of the Pavilion as a home by the resident.

Any group wishing to reserve the Amphitheatre, any Pavilion garden or any room in the Rotunds shall first obtain a reservation from the Curator of the Historic Central Grounds. No reservation of any adjacent garden shall be made except with the consent of the resident of the Pavilion, who shall be contacted by the Curator. For this purpose the Assistant to the President shall be considered the resident of Pavilion VIII, the Secretary of the Colonnade Club the resident of Pavilion VII.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A report on Gifts and Grants was accepted by the Board. The President noted that Mr. Waller Barrett is again prominent on the list of donors. The President acknowledged $367,500 in private and corporate gifts and $3,773,700 in grants.

RESOLUTION CONCERNING REVISION IN THE COMPOSITION, AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION OF THE MEDIA BOARD OF DIRECTORSGuidelines for the Media Board of DirectorsI. JurisdictionII. PurposeIII. AuthorityIV. Meetings and ReportsV. Constitution and By-LawsVI. Membership and Organization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The purpose of the Media Board of Directors shall be to promote the highest standards of journalism in the operation of student publications and broadcast media under its supervision, to guarantee their freedom and independence, and to insure that those publications are responsive to the concerns of the University community.

The Media Board of Directors shall insure that the student media abide by a code of journalistic ethics and responsibilities and carry out their functions in a manner consistent with the aims and objectives of the University. The Media Board of Directors shall above all require that the media organizations provide outlets for news and opinion in a spirit of fairness, decency and truthfulness.

In addition to the powers necessary to fulfill its purposes, the Media Board shall have the authority to solicit and receive complaints, to make such investigations as may be necessary, to conduct hearings to determine the validity of complaints, to make determinations as to what, if any, corrective action is required, and to implement such corrective action.

In the implementation of corrective action the Media Board may establish general policies; it shall not engage in censorship (i.e., prior restraint), and it shall not order the publication or broadcast of specific information except: (1) in the case of public censure,(2) as may be necessary to correct factual errors in previously published or broadcast information, and(3) notices of public meetings of the Media Board. In the enforcement of its directives the Media Board shall be limited to the following actions against the officers and members of the managing boards of student media organizations under its supervision: (1) Private censure and public censure published by all student news media, both actions determined by a majority vote of the membership of the Media Board;(2) Removal from position, determined by a vote of six of the seven members of the Media Board.

Regular meetings of the Media Board shall be held not less than once during each month of the academic year. To qualify as a regular meeting, a majority of the members shall be present. A vote of a majority of the members present shall be sufficient to decide any matter other than the challenge of a member and the censure or removal of an officer or member of the managing board of a student news media organization.

The Media Board of Directors shall submit to the President written reports of its activities at the end of each regular session semester. As a separate section of the report, the Media Board shall include a summary of its periodic inspection and review of student operated radio stations. It shall make other reports as necessary.

The Media Board shall adopt a constitution and by-laws consistent with this directive and the requirements of due process. Such by-laws shall include a reasonable code of ethics and responsibilities. The Media Board shall solicit the views of all student media organizations and other interested individuals in promulgating that code.

The Media Board shall be composed of seven students appointed by the presidents of the several Schools of the University. Present media staff are to be excluded from appointment. The term of appointment will be for two years, with terms being staggered so that three members end their term one year and four the next, and with the largest School, the College of Arts and Sciences, always represented. A chairman shall be chosen by the Media Board from among the members who have served one year.

If, prior to the consideration of any adjudicative matter, a challenge is made that one or more members of the Media Board should be excused because of conflicts in interest, the challenge shall be decided upon by a majority vote of the unchallenged members of the Media Board, and, when required, substitute members shall be selected by a majority vote; provided that if a majority of the members are challenged, the Student Activities Committee shall act upon the challenge and, if upheld, it shall select substitute members.

The Media Board of Directors may at its discretion elect to have a consultant or advisor from the faculty or staff of the University who should be selected in consultation with the Vice President for Student Affairs, and who would serve ex officio and with no vote.

RESOLUTION WITH RESPECT TO HEARING THE GAY STUDENT UNION'S APPEAL FROM A DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCUSSION OF THE TITLE OF THE LEGAL ADVISER
--------------------------------------------

The President reported to the Board that he has received correspondence from the Virginia Attorney General's Office in connection with the official titles used by the University's Legal Adviser. The Attorney General has decided that it will be necessary that the Legal Adviser have, in addition, the title of "Special Assistant Attorney General," rather than "Special Counsel," which latter title is normally applicable only to attorneys in private practice who represent state agencies on specific matters.

After a discussion the Board decided that it would not be necessary to change the Manual of the Board of Visitors, which establishes the office of "Legal Adviser of the University," but that the Legal Adviser could use the title of "Special Assistant Attorney General" in addition to the title of "Legal Adviser to the University." The Board directed, however, that the minutes of this meeting show that the use of the title "Special Assistant Attorney General" did not in any way make the Legal Adviser responsible to, or subject to the control of, the Virginia Attorney General.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRETIREMENT
----------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICEELECTION
----------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------------------------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICERE-APPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:03 p.m.

RCB:jb
