---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1976'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
OFFICIAL MINUTES (TENTATIVE Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 14, 1976
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:15 p.m., on October 14, 1976, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, and Hugh Scott. Absent: Edwin K. Mattern and Howard W. McCall, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Vincent Shea, Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, and John Owen were present throughout the meeting.

DEATH OF JUDGE HOWARD W. SMITH
------------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on October 3, 1976 of Judge Howard W. Smith, a member of the Board of Visitors from 1953 to 1960.

ELECTIONSELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTYELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTYELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. TRINH X. THUAN
----------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HUGH SCOTT HAMILTON CHAIR OF PSYCHOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP OF OTOLARYNGOLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF THE MCLEMORE BIRDSONG PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on the status of the current construction was distributed to the Board for information. The President reported that the largest project currently is the erection of the Primary Care Center. The placing of the third floor slab is in progress; the completion date is May 12, 1978. Three other projects are in the construction stage.

REVISION OF THE MANUAL TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES COMMITTEE TO THE HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In recommending the change of the name of the Committee, the President pointed out that Health Affairs more clearly describes the work of the Committee, and it is more commonly used in other universities than Health Sciences, and that the Vice-President for Health Affairs requests approval of the change.

As required by Section 5.8 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1975 the Executive Committee unanimously approved the proposed amendment, and notice of the proposed amendment was included in the regular notice of the meeting sent to each member of the Board.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILIONS ON THE LAWN
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$472,706.36

Free Service

837,862.78

\---------------

Total

$1,310,569.14

REPORT BY THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO IMPROVE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE BOARD AND THE STUDENT BODY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE LEGAL ADVISER ON LITIGATION
-----------------------------------------

The Legal Adviser, Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

LETTER OF INTENT AND SUBMISSION OF PH.D. PROGRAM IN NEUROSCIENCES
-----------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON THE IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT ISSUES FOR THE 1978-1980 BIENNIUM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that he has prepared a list of Significant Issues for the 1978-1980 Biennium. This list was requested by Secretary of Education Robert Ramsey. The State Council of Higher Education will use this list, and lists from other institutions to identify state-wide issues confronting higher education in the next biennium.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts compiled during the period May 12, 1976 through September 20, 1976. During this period gifts totaling $907,400 were received. A report of grants (sponsored programs) during the period May 1, 1976, through August 31, 1976, was also presented. Grants totaling $16,826,800 were received. The President expressed the thanks of the University to the donors and sponsoring organizations.

AMENDMENT TO THE UNIVERSITY'S TIAA-CREF RETIREMENT PLAN
-------------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERELECTION
----------------------------------------------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 2:33 p.m.

RCB:jb
