---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1977'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
OFFICIAL MINUTES (TENTATIVE) Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 2, 1977
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., on April 2, 1977, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli and Hugh Scott. Absent: C. Waller Barrett and William C. Battle. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Vincent Shea, Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, and John J. Owen were present throughout the meeting.

ELECTIONSELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM G. SHENKIR AS PAUL GOODLOE MCINTIRE PROFESSOR OF COMMERCEELECTION OF MR. FRANK W. FINGER AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGYELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTYELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. MICHAEL M. E. JOHNS
-----------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. SYDNEY W. BRITTON
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. BURKETT MILLER
---------------------------

DEATH OF MR. ARTHUR FRANCIS MACCONOCHIE
---------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHARLES O. GREGORY PROFESSORSHIP OF LAW
------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VERNAH SCOTT MOYSTON PROFESSORSHIP IN OPHTHALMOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SPECIAL ACTION WITH REGARD TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE APPOINTMENT OF FREDERICK E. NOLTING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1978
-----------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the status of the various construction projects under way at the University. The two largest projects are the Primary Care Center, presently 40 percent completed, and Phase II of the Law School which will be completed in September of 1978. The report was accepted.

REPORT ON THE 1977 GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------

The President reported on actions of the 1977 General Assembly that affect the University. He advised that the University's highest priority for capital outlay is the Undergraduate Readers Library. The financing of the project awaits the outcome of a referendum on a bond issue.

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

Mr. George Grattan presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$137,646.13

Free Service

$516,741.55

\-------------

Total

$654,387.68

INCREASE IN TUITIONSCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------

Out-of-State (all schools except Medicine)

$50.00

Actual Tuition 1976-77

Tuition Approved March 1976 for 1977-78

Tuition Proposed 1977-78

Virginia

Students Entering Fall 1976 and 1977

$1,600

$1,600

$2,000

Students Entered before 1976

1,285

1,420

1,685

Out-of-State

Students Entering Fall 1976 and 1977

3,600

3,600

4,500

Students Entered Before 1976

2,900

3,200

3,800

INCREASE IN THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE
---------------------------------

Board Approved Charges

Proposed 1977-78

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ 15.00

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure

2.00

2.00

University Transit

17.00

17.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons areas

5.00

5.00

Faculty TIAA

105.00

105.00

Athletics

30.00

30.00

Student Health

60.00

80.00

University Union

14.00

14.00

University Union Programs

5.00

5.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

10.00

10.00

$267.00

$287.00

ACTIVITY FEE IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
-------------------------------------------------------------

Current

Proposed

1976-77

1977-78

$3.00 for each student in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be assessed in the Fall semester.

$2.00 for each student in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be assessed each semester.

RETIREMENT POLICY FOR RESEARCH PERSONNEL AND FOR ATHLETIC COACHES
-----------------------------------------------------------------

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A list of Gifts and Grants was distributed to the Members of the Board. Gifts for the period January 1, to March 15, 1977 totaling $312,500, were accepted as were grants totaling $6,071,800, for the period December 1, 1976 through February 28, 1977. Mr. Shea explained that only monies flowing to the University are included in this report.

APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT TO MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE DORMITORY BONDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

STUDENT COUNCIL RESOLUTION ON OPEN MEETINGS
-------------------------------------------

Mr. George Palmer, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, brought to the Board a resolution adopted by the Student Council requesting: 1. That the President and Vice President of the Student Council be invited to attend those portions of the Board's meetings to which they are presently not invited (i.e. those committees other than Student Affairs and Athletics and the full meeting of the Board of Visitors); and2. That those portions of the Board of Visitors' meetings not dealing with litigation, property acquisition or personnel matters be open to the public.

The Board adopted a motion to receive the resolution and to refer it to the Special Committee of the Board to Improve Communications Between the Board and the Student Body, with a request to that Committee for a report back to the full Board on the matter.

REPORT ON INVESTMENTS
---------------------

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported to the Board that the Finance Committee has recently studied the performance of the University's Investment Counselors and that the Committee found the performance to be very satisfactory.

REPORT ON COMMUNICATION FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION OF VIRGINIA WITH RESPECT TO THE MEDIA BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reviewed with the Board a letter from Mr. Robert P. Dwoskin, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the American Civil Liberties Union, and his response to Mr. Dwoskin with respect to the specific areas of jurisdiction of the Media Board.

The Board concurred in Mr. Hereford's response, which gave assurance that the University's Media Board reflects a continued commitment to freedom of expression at the University, recognizing the importance of free and independent student media, and assuring further that limitations on the Media Board's authority coupled with procedural safeguards insure that the actions of the Media Board have no "chilling effect" on the editors of student run media at the University.

REFERRAL OF TENURE AND WORK LOAD STUDY RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following discussion of the Faculty Tenure and Activity in Virginia Report issued by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia in November, 1976, the Board unanimously adopted a motion to refer the report to the Educational Policy Committee. That Committee is to review the recommendations with the University administration and report back to the Board on the matter at the October, 1977 meeting.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRESIGNATION
-------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
----------------------------------------------------------

Tuition

Current 1976-77

Proposed 1977-78

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$27

$28

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Graduate Per Semester Hour

27

30

Graduate Courses as part of Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

40

40

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the School of Continuing Education to On-Grounds Courses

1-3 Credit Hours Per Semester

82.50

82.50

4-8 Credit Hours Per Semester

160

160

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10

10

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5

5

Change of Status Fee

5

5

Transcript Fee

2

2

Late Registration Fee

5

5

Late Exam Fee

5

5

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10

10

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------

Virginians

Out-of-State

Tuition

Current 1976-77

Proposed 1977-78

Current 1976-77

Proposed 1977-78

Full-Time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$450

$500

$600

$700

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional credit hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-Time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate Per Semester Hour

$ 19

$ 21

$ 25

$ 29

Off-Campus Instruction

Credit Courses

Rate Per Semester Hour

$ 19

$ 21

$ 25

$ 29

Non-Credit Courses

Rate Per CEU

$ 13

$ 14

$ 17

$ 19

INCREASE IN DORMITORY RENT FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------

Current

Proposed

1976-77

1977-78

Room

$384

$400

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:53 a.m.

RCB:jb
