---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1980'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 4, 1980
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:45 p.m., in Open Session on October 2, 1980, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., and Frank S. Royal. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, and William H. Muller were also present. Messrs. David A. Shannon and John J. Owen were absent from the meeting.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on October 4, 1980, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Howard W. McCall, Jr., and David N. Montague. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, and John J. Owen were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 7, 1980, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Meeting continued at 10:38 a.m., October 4th.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY CHANCELLOR
----------------------------------------------------

Over the past several years the Board of Visitors has noted a steady increase in the duties and responsibilities of the President of the University. Relations with the Federal and State governments have become much more demanding of time and effort; the internal management of the University has become more complex; and the need to gain increased support from alumni, friends, and foundations has become more pressing. In fact, the unique character of the University of Virginia demands constant attention to the development of private support commensurate with that at major private institutions, as well as continuing attention to University-State government relations.

Believing that increased private support is vital to the continuing advancement of the University, the Board of Visitors is conducting a study of the feasibility of a substantial enhancement of University development efforts designed to increase the endowment and gain private support for programs and projects which the State cannot reasonably be expected to support. The Code of Virginia states that "it is the public policy of the State to encourage the state-supported institutions of Higher Education in Virginia in their attempts to increase their endowment funds."

The Board has requested the President to devote significantly greater attention to the University's efforts in that regard.

In the light of these considerations, the Board has concluded that it is in the best interests of the University to establish a new executive office under the President to which substantial responsibility can be delegated for the internal affairs of the institution. Accordingly, the Board has authorized the establishment of the Office of Chancellor of the University.

The Vice-Presidents will continue to have access directly to the President. However, in the course of their day-to-day execution of the executive duties delegated to them, which will remain unchanged, they will confer with the Chancellor, gaining such direction as circumstances may warrant.

The President will continue to be the Chief Executive Officer responsible to the Board of Visitors with the powers and duties set forth in the Manual of the Board of Visitors. However, he will hold authority to delegate to the Chancellor responsibility for the regular execution of certain of these duties. It will continue to be the responsibility of the President to act as adviser to the Board and to recommend to it those policies and programs which in his opinion will best promote the interests of the University.

In order that the President can immediately focus a greater portion of his time and effort on the enhancement of the University's private resources, he is authorized to assign to the Vice-Presidents such additional duties as he deems necessary on an interim basis.

APPROVAL OF PROCEDURE FOR ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION TO CONVEY PROPERTY FROM THE REBA L. OSBORNE BEQUEST
-----------------------------------------------------------------

In her Will, Reba L. Osborne left one-fifth of her residuary estate to the Medical School of the University of Virginia. At the time of her death, she owned real property known as 4402 Reservoir Road Northwest, Washington, D.C. and the property, which was appraised for $125,000.00, has been offered for sale by the Executor of the Estate. The Executor has now received an offer to purchase the property for $135,000.00 cash, less 6% commission.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby agrees that the Executor of the Estate of Reba L. Osborne should accept the offer to buy the property known as 4402 Reservoir Road Northwest, Washington, D.C. for the offered purchase price of $135,000.00, less 6% commission, and that the University's one-fifth undivided interest in such property be conveyed, subject to review by the State Division of Engineering and Buildings and to approval by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia;

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to take all actions and to execute all documents, including a deed of conveyance, to accomplish the sale of the property. Subsequent distribution of the University's share of the estate shall be added to the endowment account for the James Carroll Flippin Professorship in Medical Science.

APPROVAL OF ROACHE, MERCER, AND FAISON, INCORPORATED, AS ARCHITECTS FOR ELECTRIC FEEDERS PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF BASKERVILL AND SON AS ARCHITECTS FOR THE ADDITION TO UNIVERSITY HALL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. COLIN R. HALL
-----------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. MARY M. HERMAN
------------------------------------------------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. PETER WALDMAN
-------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENT
----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

CORRECTION IN THE RESIGNATION OF DR. MICHAEL G. LEVIEN
------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. DANIEL LEAVITT
---------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RICHARD S. REYNOLDS PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PAUL M. HAMMAKER PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN DERMATOLOGY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE S. HURT WATTS PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JAMES CARROLL FLIPPIN PROFESSORSHIP IN MEDICAL SCIENCE IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------

Report by the Rector on the Actions of the Executive Committee

(a) Report by the Rector on the Action of the Executive Committee Establishing a Chair to be Known as the Distinguished Professorship in the Darden School

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee by unanimous consent in lieu of a meeting establishing in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Business Administration.

(b) Report by the Rector on the Action of the Executive Committee Approving the Salaries of Chief Administrative Officers at the University and at Clinch Valley College

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee by unanimous consent in lieu of a meeting approving the 1980-81 salary authorized by the Governor for the President, and also approving a supplement of $8,875 from the Robert C. Taylor Professorship which the President holds. It also approved the salary authorized by the Governor for the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College for 1980-81. In addition, it approved a $5,000 housing allowance from local sources.

(c) Report by the Rector on the Action of the Executive Committee to Recommend to the Governor of Virginia that the Bid of Eric Bushman for the Volm Property be Accepted

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee by unanimous consent in lieu of a meeting had approved a recommendation to the Governor of Virginia that the bid of Eric Bushman in the amount of $85,000 less 2% for a commission and certain advertising costs estimated at $1,000 be accepted for the Volm Property.

(d) Report by the Rector on the Action of the Executive Committee Approving a College Loan Application for Clinch Valley College Student Housing

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee by unanimous consent in lieu of a meeting approved a college housing loan application for Clinch Valley College student housing.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the status of construction projects. He advised that the Scott Stadium expansion project is now complete, and that the largest other construction project is the Undergraduate Readers Library.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 974,014.81

Free Service to Counties & Cities

$2,934,737.86

\--------------

Total

$3,908,752.67

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Free Service to Counties & Cities

$973,518.23

Free Service for Inpatient Epilepsy Teaching Cases

6,785.68

\--------------

Total

$980,303.91

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE ASSISTANT UNIVERSITY COMPTROLLER FOR SPONSORED PROGRAMS TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH OR TRAINING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AMENDMENT OF RESOLUTIONS DIRECTING THE SECRETARY TO AFFIX THE CORPORATE SEAL OF THE UNIVERSITY TO INSTRUMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1981
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

Approved Summer 1980

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Ra Summer 198

SUMMER SESSION RATES

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 22

$ 2

9%

$ 24

Per student, per week, single occupancy

28

2

7%

30

Nurses Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 27

$ 3

11%

$ 30

Per student, per week, single occupancy

35

3

9%

38

Monroe Hill Houses

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 26

$ 2

8%

$ 28

Per student, per week, single occupancy

34

2

6%

36

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

Lambeth Field, Copeley III, & Nurses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 11

$ 1

9%

$ 12

Per person, per night, single occupancy

15

1.50

10%

16.50

Family rates, per week two bedroom apt.

$100

$10

10%

$110

Family rates, per week three bedroom apt.

110

15

14%

125

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 9

$ 1

14%

$ 10

Per person, per night, single occupancy

13

1.50

12%

14.50

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 7

$ 1

14%

$ 8

Per person, per night, single occupancy

10.50

1.50

14%

12

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 6

$ .50

8%

$ 6.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

9.50

1.50

16%

11

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$ 50

$ 5

10%

$ 55

GUEST FACILITIES

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, for first night

$ 8

$ 1

13%

$ 9

Per person, for night thereafter

6

1

17%

7

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------

The President distributed and discussed a list of private gifts and a report of sponsored programs both for the period May 1, 1980, through August 31, 1980. For this period the Board accepted $852,600 in private gifts and $18,208,100 in sponsored programs.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF June 30, 1980
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 6/30/79

Board Approval(1) (1)Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1980-81. Allocations

1979-80 Expenditures

Unexpended Balance 6/30/80

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 25,095.34

$ 45,700.00

$ 33,791.04

$ 37,004.30

Faculty Salary Supplement

1,431.94

4,250.00

1,777.78

3,904.16

Research and Equipment

144,548.68

56,050.00

100,528.59

100,070.09

$ 171,075.96

$ 106,000.00

$ 136,097.41

$ 140,978.55

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 24,169.42

$ 12,500.00

$ 12,479.98

$ 24,189.44

Faculty Salary Supplement

611.67

4,000.00

0.00

4,611.67

Research and Equipment

269,866.00

67,200.00

35,775.33

301,290.67

$ 294,647.09

$ 83,700.00

$ 48,255.31

$ 330,091.78

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 35,999.90

$ 60,900.00

$ 62,000.00

$ 34,899.90

Faculty Salary Supplement

26,249.48

20,000.00

0.00

46,249.48

Research and Equipment

25,000.00

25,000.00

3,400.00

46,600.00

$ 87,249.38

$ 105,900.00

$ 65,400.00

$ 127,749.38

Physics

Student Support

$ 46,393.44

$ 30,000.00

$ 48,970.84

$ 27,422.60

Faculty Salary Supplement

(82.50)

0.00

(82.50)

0.00

Research and Equipment

179,355.85

34,000.00

99,658.60

113,697.25

$ 225,666.79

$ 64,000.00

$ 148,546.94

$ 141,119.85

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 60,880.70

$ 85,000.00

$ 50,934.89

$ 94,945.81

Research and Equipment

722,060.32

408,930.00

251,494.04

879,496.28

$ 782,941.02

$ 493,930.00

$ 302,428.93

$ 974,442.09

$1,561,580.24

$ 853,530.00

$ 700,728.59

$1,714,381.65

Unexpended Balance 6/30/79Board Approval(1) (1)Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1980-81. Allocations1979-80 ExpendituresUnexpended Balance 6/30/80Arts and Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 25,095.34$ 45,700.00$ 33,791.04$ 37,004.30Faculty Salary Supplement1,431.944,250.001,777.783,904.16Research and Equipment144,548.6856,050.00100,528.59100,070.09$ 171,075.96$ 106,000.00$ 136,097.41$ 140,978.55ChemistryStudent Support$ 24,169.42$ 12,500.00$ 12,479.98$ 24,189.44Faculty Salary Supplement611.674,000.000.004,611.67Research and Equipment269,866.0067,200.0035,775.33301,290.67$ 294,647.09$ 83,700.00$ 48,255.31$ 330,091.78MathematicsStudent Support$ 35,999.90$ 60,900.00$ 62,000.00$ 34,899.90Faculty Salary Supplement26,249.4820,000.000.0046,249.48Research and Equipment25,000.0025,000.003,400.0046,600.00$ 87,249.38$ 105,900.00$ 65,400.00$ 127,749.38PhysicsStudent Support$ 46,393.44$ 30,000.00$ 48,970.84$ 27,422.60Faculty Salary Supplement(82.50)0.00(82.50)0.00Research and Equipment179,355.8534,000.0099,658.60113,697.25$ 225,666.79$ 64,000.00$ 148,546.94$ 141,119.85School of MedicineStudent Support$ 60,880.70$ 85,000.00$ 50,934.89$ 94,945.81Research and Equipment722,060.32408,930.00251,494.04879,496.28$ 782,941.02$ 493,930.00$ 302,428.93$ 974,442.09$1,561,580.24$ 853,530.00$ 700,728.59$1,714,381.65

Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1980-81.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

ELECTION OF PART TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

DEATH OF MR. PAUL L. STEINMARC
------------------------------

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT
-----------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT
-----------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00 a.m.

RCB:jb

EXHIBIT A PROCEDURES FOR ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AS ENDOWMENT ASSETSI. ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY FOR THE ENDOWMENT\* \*(These procedures do not limit the University's ability to transfer to the endowment real property already owned.) 1. By gift2. By devise3. By purchaseII. DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY IN THE ENDOWMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(These procedures do not limit the University's ability to transfer to the endowment real property already owned.)

1\. Before disposing of real property, two appraisals will be obtained and the University will obtain expert advice as to whether the property should be disposed of, and for assistance in the University's development of a written plan for disposition of the property. This plan will examine different alternatives (including, e.g., sealed bids, public auction, listing with realtors, and negotiation) and their suitability for the proposed disposition. The plan, as it may be revised from time to time, will accompany the recommendations that follow.

2\. The recommendation of the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the advice of the Legal Adviser, will be submitted to the President for approval.

3\. The President's recommendation, if to dispose of the property, will be submitted to the Finance Committee of the Board for its review and recommendation to the Board of Visitors for approval.

4\. The University's acceptance of any offer for the purchase of the property shall be contingent upon review by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and approval by the Governor. Any offer which the University accepts for the purchase of the property shall be reviewed by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and approved by the Governor. Any deed executed by the University shall be submitted for review by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and for approval by the Governor, pursuant to Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia.
