---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1981'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 5, 1981
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:18 p.m., in Open Session on June 4, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, and Carl W. Smith. Absent: Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, Ernest H. Ern, and William H. Muller were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on June 5, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, and Carl W. Smith. Absent were William M. Dudley, Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, Frank S. Royal, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, and William H. Muller were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1981, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of legal matters.(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of personnel matters involving the assignment, promotion, salaries and resignation of public employees and for the discussion and evaluation of the performance of University departments or schools.(c) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of the condition, acquisition or use of public property, and for the discussion of the disposition of public property.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion of the investment of publicly held funds where competition and bargaining is involved, for the discussion of the disposition of publicly held property, for the discussion of personnel matters involving salaries, and for the discussion or consideration of matters relating to gifts, bequests and fund raising activities.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:42 p.m. on June 5, 1981.

OFFER OF CHATTANOOGA PROPERTY FOR SALE
--------------------------------------

(1)

Sears Auto Store

$ 500,000

(2)

Sears Store (Main Building) and Parkade

1,800,000

(3)

The Combined Properties

2,250,000

(4)

Real Estate Broker Commission not to exceed 6%

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, subject to the approval of the Governor, the Vice-President for Business and Finance be and he is hereby authorized to list with real estate brokers the real estate located in Chattanooga, Tennessee, consisting of a retail store, an adjoining parkade and an auto service store held as part of the White Burkett Miller Endowment for the purpose of sale for the following amounts: (1)Sears Auto Store$ 500,000(2)Sears Store (Main Building) and Parkade1,800,000(3)The Combined Properties2,250,000(4)Real Estate Broker Commission not to exceed 6%

ADDITION OF HAYMARKET PROPERTY TO ENDOWMENT
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the "Currie" property located in Haymarket, Virginia, consisting of 207.4 acres including a main house, cottage and outbuildings, deeded to the University in December, 1964, be added to the University's quasi-endowment.

ENGAGEMENT OF SMITH VICARS AND COMPANY AS FINANCIAL CONSULTANTS
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Smith Vicars and Company be engaged as financial consultants for a period of one year to provide financial advisory services relating to tax exempt financing alternatives.

COMPENSATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND THE CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, 1981-82
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the compensation of the President of the University and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College as authorized by the Governor for the period July 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982, and the fringe benefits be and they are hereby approved.

EMINENT SCHOLARS FUND INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
-------------------------------------------

The Investment Guidelines for the Eminent Scholars Endowment Fund Program as presented by the Vice-President for Business and Finance (See Attachment A) be and it is hereby adopted effective June 5, 1981.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the Members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1982. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., Chairman, William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, George C. Palmer, II, and Carl W. Smith.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Affairs CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy CommitteeAudit Committee
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1981-1982. The Committee assignments are as follows: Finance CommitteeMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr., ChairmanMr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.Mr. George C. Palmer, IIMr. Fred G. PollardMr. Carl W. Smith Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. William M. Dudley, ChairmanMrs. Linwood HoltonMr. Stephen C. MahanMr. David N. MontagueMr. Fred G. PollardMr. E. Massie Valentine Health Affairs CommitteeDr. DuPont Guerry, III, ChairmanMr. William M. DudleyMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.Mr. David N. MontagueDr. Frank S. RoyalDr. Glenn B. Updike, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. George C. Palmer, II, ChairmanMr. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr.Mr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.Mr. Stephen C. MahanMr. Ferman W. PerryDr. Frank S. Royal Educational Policy CommitteeMrs. Linwood Holton, ChairmanDr. DuPont Guerry, IIIMr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.Mr. Ferman W. PerryMr. Carl W. SmithDr. Glenn B. Updike, Jr.Mr. E. Massie Valentine Audit CommitteeMr. E. Massie Valentine, ChairmanMr. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr.Mr. David N. Montague

The Rector, Mr. D. French Slaughter, Jr., is an Ex Officio member of all Committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Michael Allingham as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Cindy S. Aron as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John T. Ashley as Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for five years, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Michael D. Atchison as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. J. Roger Bacon as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley as Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective April 1, 1981.Miss Janet L. Beizer as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David R. Bradley as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jack S. Brenizer as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David S. Cafiso as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James G. Clawson as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David A. Collier as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Mary V. Compton as Acting Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Acting Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1981 through December 31, 1981.Mrs. Ellen Contini Morava as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Charles M. Cox as Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Mary T. Davisson as Assistant Professor of Classics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John P. DiMarco as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gordon B. Donaldson as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. R. Bruce Douglass as Visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Carlos M.N. Eire as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert E. Emery as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph C. Ferrar as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Ann W. Fisher as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Dean E. Frost as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Ted A. Glass as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James D. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Russell G. Hamilton, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Joye B. Hawkins as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Walter J. Hendricks as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John C. Herr as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. James R. Hillard as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Psychiatrist, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Paula J.A. Hillard as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Patrick G. Hodkinson as Lecturer in Architecture, for two months, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Mark D. Johnston as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Donald G. Jones as Visiting Research Professor of Business Ethics, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Paul W. Kingston as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ove Kroll as Research Instructor in Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Joan R. Kung as Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Ms. Holly A. Laird as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Phillip J. Lederer as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Samuel B. Long as Lecturer, General Faculty, for five years, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. John C. McEnroe as Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Michael McGee as Visiting Associate Professor of Speech Communication, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Francis O. McGuinness as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Verne Moberg as Acting Assistant Professor of Swedish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William E. Morris as Visiting Associate Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Marianne Murdock as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Marilyn Nations-Shields as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Instructor in Anthropology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Anthony F. Norcio as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Rosanna M. O'Neil as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Miss Susanne U. Oswald as Lecturer in French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Frank Pike, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Jeannette M. Pipkin as Associate Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William J. Prior as Visiting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Bradley M. Rodgers as Professor of Surgery, effective June 16, 1981.Dr. Sheena M. Ross as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.Miss Elaine M. Russo as Instructor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for the period April 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Ira Sadoff as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas G. Sauer as Assistant Professor of German, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Karen A. Semler as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Zhen-Heng Shao as Visiting Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Christopher C. Smith as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John Strauss as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. J. David Summers as Professor of Art, effective August 1, 1981.Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III, as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Johannes D. Veldhuis as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Luciana G. Wlassics as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective June 1, 1981.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the named chairs as shown below:Mr. Matthew Holden, Jr. as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Gerald L. Mandell, Owen R. Cheatham Professor of Sciences and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Stanton P. Nolan as Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert P. Scharlemann as Commonwealth Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1981.(b) Change of Title for ChairholderDr. William H. Muller, Jr., from Stephen H. Watts Professor of Surgery, to S. Hurt Watts Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1981.(c)Retirement for ChairholdersDr. E. Meredith Alrich, Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1981. Dr. Alrich has been a member of the medical faculty since 1947.Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Owen R. Cheatham Professor of Sciences, and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1981. Dr. Hunter had been a member of the faculty since 1953.(d) Resignation for ChairholdersMr. Gordon E. Latta, William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective May 31, 1981 to accept another position.Mrs. Joanne Simpson, William W. Corcoran Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1981, to remain at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Judith S. Allen as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas J. Aton as Assistant Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1981 through January 16, 1985.Mrs. Francoise M. Attinger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Associate Professor of Biochemistry, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Armistead P. Booker as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for for the period January 1, 1981, through June 30, 1981.Mr. Carl M. Brauer as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Fred V. Carstensen as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Diane Chaffee as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Karen S. Chase as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Patricia C. Click as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Ralph G. Dacey, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Professor of English, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Frederic N. Firestone as Professor of Economics, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Jean W. Gillet as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph Goldberg as Visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William K. Harper as Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David J. Hayes as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Charles H. Hudgins as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Constance B. Kuriyama as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Randal A. Lemke as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Sarah C. Lin as Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas A. Mason as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, The Papers of James Madison, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Patrick J. Michaels as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Jeanne C. Miller as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Allan T. Mitchell as Assistant Professor of Physics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Blaine E. Norum as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Richard Parker as Diplomat-in-Residence in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Glenn P. Pierce as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Jeanne M. Pietig as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Christ E. Pikrallidas as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Sheila S. Rinehart as Assistant Professor of Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert Roberts as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Lawrence Rose as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Linguistics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Larry Sabato as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Abdulaziz A. Sachedina as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Martin V. Schneider as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William J. Serow as Associate Professor, General Faculty, The Darden School, for two months, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Bryce L. Shriver as Research Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one month, effective June 1, 1981.Ms. Mary J. Smith as Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Claudia J. Sowa as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John W. Thibaut as Research Professor of Law, for one month, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James Turner as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert F. Turner, III, as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Alexander A. Waldrop, III, as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jon D. Whitman as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Donna D. Wilson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Peter H. Wirth as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Tibor Wlassics as Professor of Italian, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David M. Wyatt as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. John T. Allen from Clinical Instructor of Urology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective March 1, 1981.Mr. Maurice Apprey from Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Fletcher C. Askew from Clinical Instructor in Dermatology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Arthur S. Bender from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Carl H. Bivens from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David C. Brydges from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. C. Stuart Buchanan from Clinical Instructor in Dermatology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. Jitendra S. Desai from Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective February 1, 1981.Mr. William B. Guilford from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. H. Brian Landes from Clinical Instructor in Dermatology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Mr. Dov A. Lichtenberg from Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Visiting Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three months, effective April 1, 1981.Dr. George W. Martin, Jr. from Instructor in Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James A. McCormick from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Rebecca W. Rimel from Instructor of Neurosurgery to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, College of Arts and Sciences to Associate Professor, General Faculty, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Paul B. Armstrong, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to do research on a Humboldt Fellowship at the University of Konstanz in West Germany.Mr. Malcolm Bell, III, Associate Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to study in Italy.Mr. Leonard L. Berry, Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to engage in research.Mrs. Marilyn J. Blackwell, Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, on a Mellon grant at Harvard.Mr. Randall Collins, Professor of Sociology and a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to serve as a Visiting Professor at the University of Arizona.Ms. Mary L. Cozad, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept NEH Fellowship.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to work at Exxon Research and Engineering Corporation.Mr. Peter M. Garber, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to remain at the University of Rochester.Mr. Dante Germino, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to accept an NEH Fellowship.Mr. Ira W. Herbst, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to visit the Mittag-Leffler Institute in Djursholm, Sweden.Mr. James L. Hoban, Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to complete book.Mr. John W. Israel, Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to do research.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr., Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a visiting faculty position at Yale University.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, for writing and research.Mr. William S. McKee, Professor of Law, for the period April 1, 1981 through May 31, 1981, to serve as Tax Legislative Counsel to the Treasury Department in Washington, D. C.Mr. Peter A. Metcalf, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, for study and writing.Mr. James C. Nohrnberg, Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, to pursue research on a Guggenheim Fellowship.Mr. David M. O'Brien, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a Fellowship from the Russell Sage Foundation.Mr. Harvey S. Perlman, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a visiting position at the University of Iowa.Ms. Marion Roberts, Associate Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Lawrence Rose, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a Swedish Bicentennial Fund Research Grant.Mr. Craig L. Sarazin, Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to do research at Princeton University.Mr. William C. Saslaw, Professor of Astronomy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for research at Cambridge University.Mr. David G. Smith, Associate Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1981 through August 31, 1982, to continue research and consulting.Mr. Samuel S. Thompson, Professor of Law, for the period May 31, 1981 through May 31, 1983, to join the Chicago law firm of Schiff, Hardin and Waite.Mr. James Turner, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to continue research.Ms. Renate L. Voris, Assistant Professor of German, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to accept a Humboldt Grant for research in Zurich, Switzerland.Mr. Ronald S. Warren, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to serve as a Brookings Policy Fellow.Mrs. Doris K. Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, for research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are here-by made:Mr. Lloyd E. Barrett from Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Lewis S. Feuer from University Professor of Sociology and Humanities to University Professor of Sociology and Government, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Jane D. Hurst from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Catherine F. Kahn from Lecturer in Business Administration, The Darden School to Lecturer in Business Administration and Director of Student Services, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert S. Kemp from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period March 16, 1981 through May 31, 1983.Mr. George A. Nowacek from Assistant Professor of Medical Education, School of Medicine, and Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, School of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Coen C. Plasberg from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period April 1, 1981 through February 1, 1982.Mr. Gary J. Shiflet from Acting Assistant Professor of Materials Science to Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for the period April 15, 1981 through May 31, 1983.Mr. Bart Taub from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period March 9, 1981, through May 31, 1984.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs. Jane K. Brown, Associate Professor of German, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Carl A. Erdman, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective June 30, 1981, to accept a position at Texas A & M University.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective July 1, 1981, to accept position as Vice President and Provost.Dr. Frederick L. Fox, Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, effective February 28, 1981, to enter private practice.Dr. Ray W. Gandee, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Ernest B. Gilman, Assistant Professor of English, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Seymour E. Goodman, Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective August 16, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. John Guzzardo, Assistant Professor of Italian, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. John C. Hortenstine, Associate Professor of Medicine, effective June 30, 1981, for personal reasons.Ms. Carol J. Jablonski, Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, effective August 31, 1981, to accept a position at Indiana University.Ms. Marilyn G. King, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Miss Elizabeth L. Langhorne, Assistant Professor of Art History, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. David B. Magleby, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mrs. Lois S. Owens, Director, The Luther P. Jackson House, effective July 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Alan B. Palazzolo, Visiting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mrs. Bonnie N. Raphael, Assistant Professor of Drama, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Jay E. Raphael, Assistant Professor of Drama, effective May 31, 1981, to pursue a professional acting career.Miss Linda L. Rittenour, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective August 15, 1981, for personal reasons.Ms. Avital Ronell, Assistant Professor of German, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. William J. Sacco, Visiting Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective June 30, 1981, for personal reasons.Dr. Frederick K. Smith, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, effective June 30, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Douglas W. Tanner, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 17, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Charles H. Whitebread, Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Robert S. Wood, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. John T. Ashley as Executive Director, University of Virginia Hospital, for five years, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen as Director, Biophysics Program, School of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Sharon Davie as Director of Women's Studies Program, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three months, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. Jeffrey Hadden as Chairman of the Department of Sociology, for the period January 16, 1982 through August 31, 1985Mr. Russell G. Hamilton, Jr. as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Lavahn G. Hoh as Acting Chairman of the Department of Drama, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Matthew Holden, Jr. as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Cecil Y. Lang as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three months, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. Samuel B. Long as Director of Planned Giving, Office of University Development, for five years, effective June 1, 1981.Mr. James S. McCarthy as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John J. Owen as Special Assistant to the Vice President for Development, for the period April 1, 1981 through August 15, 1982Mr. Armstead L. Robinson as Director, Institute of Afro-American and African Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Randall R. Smith as Assistant to the Dean for Administration, School of Commerce, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Paul B. Stephan as Assistant to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. J. David Summers as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective August 1, 1981.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald A. Cass as Assistant to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William A. Elwood as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. William H. Muller as Vice President for Health Affairs and Director of the Medical Center, for four years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James M. Ortega as Associate Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. D. Helaine Patterson as Director, Medical Center Information Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Thomas W. Tillack as Chairman, Department of Pathology, for five years, effective August 1, 1981.Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Chairman, Department of Dermatology, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professors Emeriti:Dr. E. Meredith Alrich, Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery.Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Owen R. Cheatham Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of Internal Medicine.

DEATH OF MR. HARRY J. DELL
--------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECOND CARMAN G. BLOUGH PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Commerce a second Carman G. Blough Chair to be known as the Carman G. Blough Professorship in Commerce. The Professorship was given by the Virginia Society of CPA's in memory of George Blough, former Director of Research of the American Institute of CPA's. The endowment of the Chair is now adequate to support two professorships.

APPROVAL OF THE 1981-82 UNIVERSITY DIVISION BUDGET
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1981-82 University Division Budget as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1981-82 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL DIVISION BUDGET
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1981-82 University Hospital Division Budget as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1981-82 BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION BUDGET
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1981-82 Budget for the Blue Ridge Hospital Division of the University of Virginia Hospital as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1981-82 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE AND THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1981-82 Budgets for Clinch Valley College and the Division of Continuing Education and Public Service Bureaus, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and they are hereby approved.

PROPOSED CHANGE IN THE TEACHERS' INSURANCE AND ANNUITY ASSOCIATION (TIAA) GROUP LIFE AND GROUP DISABILITY PROGRAMS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the existing TIAA group life insurance and group disability program shall be changed to provide:(1) that the total premium cost of group life insurance coverage and group disability coverage be paid by the University;(2) that the decreasing term for group life insurance be adjusted to $2,000 of permanent insurance at retirement;(3) that the one year waiting period for group disability insurance coverage be eliminated; and(4) that a 3 percent annual cost of living adjustment in disability benefits be incorporated into benefit payments.

POLICY ON REFUND TUITION, FEES, ROOM AND BOARD CHARGES
------------------------------------------------------

School Week

Percentage Retained

Percentage Refunded

1

20

80

2

20

80

3

30

70

4

40

60

5

50

50

6

60

40

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Tuition and Fees Refund Schedule be as follows:In the event a student withdraws from the University -1. Tuition and Required Fees will be charged on a percentage basis based on the school week within which the student withdraws.2. A school week is defined as the period beginning on Monday and ending on the succeeding Sunday. The first school week of a semester (term) is defined as the week within which the general University Registration occurs.3. The schedule for allocation of Tuition and Required Fees between amounts retained and amounts refunded is as follows: School WeekPercentage RetainedPercentage Refunded120802208033070440605505066040

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,054,238.84

Free Service

2,055,090.68

\----------------

Total

$3,109,329.52

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Free Service to Counties and Cities

$261,703.99

Free Service for Medically Indigent Accute Inpatients

3,812.44

\------------------

Total

$265,516.43

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 401 through 406 for the months of February and March, 1981 totaling $3,109,329.52, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 455 through 458 for the months of February and March, 1981 totaling $265,516.43 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,054,238.84Free Service2,055,090.68----------------Total$3,109,329.52Blue Ridge Hospital Division:Free Service to Counties and Cities$261,703.99Free Service for Medically Indigent Accute Inpatients3,812.44------------------Total$265,516.43 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Vice-President Catlin reported on the current status of the construction program. Mr. Catlin advised that the working drawings for the renovation of Madison Hall are complete, and that the projected date of occupancy is September 1982. The Undergraduate Readers Library, he said, is 82% complete.

REPORT OF THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ELECTING MR. NEIL BORDEN AS THE RICHARD S. REYNOLDS PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AND RESCINDING HIS ELECTION AS THE J. HARVIE WILKINSON PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee rescinded the March 28, 1981 action of the Board electing Mr. Neil Borden the J. Harvie Wilkinson Professor of Business Administration, and elected Mr. Neil Borden as the Richard S. Reynolds Professor of Business Administration.

AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT WITH ALUMNI ASSOCIATION REGARDING CERTAIN CONCESSION PRIVILEGES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia was granted by the Board of Visitors the sole right of conducting concessions at the University of Virginia in areas other than Newcomb Hall, Food Service units, and the Medical Center pursuant to a resolution dated March 26, 1946, as subsequently amended; andWHEREAS, the Alumni Association at the request of the Department of Athletics of the University, desires to amend the terms of such agreement between the Board of Visitors and the Alumni Association to exclude from such privileges concessions (including the merchandizing of goods) in/or on property under the supervision of the Department of Athletics;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all concessions and merchandizing (except vending machines) in/or on property under the supervision of the Department of Athletics be excluded from those privileges previously granted to the General Alumni Association; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Department of Athletics be granted the concessions privileges, exclusive of the vending machines, but including the merchandizing of goods as approved by the Board of Visitors in/or on property under the supervision of the Department of Athletics and that concession and merchandizing activities of the Department of Athletics be subject to periodic review in the same manner as other programs conducted by departments and activities within the University.

ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR DEBT SERVICE, CAPITAL OUTLAY, AND OTHER PURPOSES
------------------------------------------------------------------------

A. Designation of Funds for Retirement of Indebtedness:

1\. To provide principal and interest due on Southern Welding Property

$30,530.00

2\. To provide principal and interest on Birdwood Property

4,644.00

B. Designation of miscellaneous capital outlay projects

5,210.90

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following are hereby approved: A. Designation of Funds for Retirement of Indebtedness:1. To provide principal and interest due on Southern Welding Property$30,530.002. To provide principal and interest on Birdwood Property4,644.00B. Designation of miscellaneous capital outlay projects5,210.90

APPROVAL OF AUDIT REPORT
------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the May 1981 Summary of Audit Reports for the University of Virginia as presented by the Director of Audits is hereby accepted as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE 1982-1984 BUDGET ADDENDUM SUBMISSIONSUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BUDGET ADDENDUM ITEMS 1982-1984University DivisionPriorityClinch Valley College
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the accompanying list of Budget Addendum Items for 1982-84 pertaining to the University Division and Clinch Valley College are approved in principle and that the President is authorized to make such changes to the list as may be justified by further study and evaluation, provided that the final 1982-84 Addendum submission shall be consistent with the 1982-84 Program Proposal.

1\. Increase proposed faculty salary adjustments and related fringe benefit costs in the Target computation from 4 1/2% to 9% in each year of the 1982-84 biennium (+2,450,000 in 1982-83; +$5,100,000 in 1983-84).

2\. Continue enhancement programs in the second year of the 1982-84 biennium (+$1,250,000 in 1983-84).

3\. Increase funding for library books from 93% to 100% of the Voight Formula (+$239,000 in 1982-83; +$270,000 in 1983-84).

1\. Increase proposed faculty salary adjustments and related fringe benefit costs in the Target computation from 4 1/2% to 10% in each year of the 1982-84 biennium (+$70,000 in 1982-83; +$150,000 in 1983-84).

APPROVAL OF UTILITY EASEMENT ON SCOTT STADIUM TRACT
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a utility easement be and it is hereby granted to the City of Charlottesville for an area of the Scott Stadium tract designated in a Plat dated April 6, 1981.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The Board of Visitors accepted gifts totaling $952,000, for the period March 1, 1981, to April 30, 1981, and sponsored programs totaling $11,094,800, for the period February 1, 1981, through April 30, 1981. Certain gifts received during the last days of the reporting period are not included in this report.

APPROVAL OF 1981-82 BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCESSCHOOL OF MEDICINE BUDGET FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1981-82ARTS AND SCIENCES BUDGET FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1981-82ARTS AND SCIENCES PRATT REQUESTS FOR 1981-82ARTS AND SCIENCES PRATT FUND REQUEST FOR 1981-82Additions/Deletions to Departmental RequestsMATHEMATICSPHYSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1981-82

Total

Research:

Support of Graduate Research Assistants

85,000

85,000

Supplemental Funds for the Image Analysis System

6,000

6,000

Instrumentation for the Development of Neuropathology and Neurooncology Research

50,000

50,000

Support of Fluorescence Activated Cell-Sorter (FACS)

44,462

44,462

Partial Support of a Symposium on Adenosine

35,000

35,000

Human Tumor Stem Cell Assay in Soft Agar Culture

38,960

38,960

International Conference, "New Research Issues in Diabetes

12,500

12,500

Supplemental Funds for the Developmental Biology Program

30,000

30,000

TOTAL

301,922

301,922

Amount previously approved by the Board of Visitors: June 1980

493,930

June 1979

362,940

June 1978

378,000

Jan 1978

470,761

Oct 1977

150,000

Investigator(s)

Title of Proposal

Department or Program

Budget Requested

Recommended Budget

Recommendation

R. Biltonen

Support of Graduate Education

$85,000

$85,000

Approval

E. Rubel

Supplemental Funds for the Image Analysis System

Otolaryngology and Neuroscience Program

$6,000

$6,000 for equipment

Approval

L. Rubenstein and M. Herman

Instrumentation for the Development of Neuropathology and Neurooncology Research

Division of Neuropathology

$55,607

$50,000

Approval

Drs. Kay and Quesenberry

Support of FACS

Department of Internal Medicine

$92,362

$44,462

Approval

Robert Berne

Partial Support of a Symposium on Adenosine

Physiology

$35,000

$35,000

Approval

Johns, Anderson, Dunn, Elkon, Fechner, Kim, Mills, Quesenberry, Wyandt

Human Tumor Stem Cell Assay in Soft Agar Culture

Department of Otolaryngology and the Human Tumor Cloning Lab of the Division of Head and Neck Oncology

$62,960 (two years)

$38,960 (one year)

Approval

J. Larner

International Conference, "New Research Issues in Diabetes"

Diabetes Center

$12,500

$12,500

Approval

Supplemental Funds for the Developmental Biology Program

Developmental Biology

$30,000

$30,000

Approval

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Total

tudent Support: Graduate and undergraduate

33,000

42,000

26,000

20,000

121,000

aculty Salary Supplement

1,200

54,400

25,700

81,300

quipment

71,200

42,500

6,000

151,700

271,400

TOTAL

105,400

84,500

86,400

197,400

473,700

mount previously pproved by Board of isitors:

6/7/80

106,000

83,700

80,900

89,000

359,600

6/2/79

81,300

171,000

28,700

89,000

370,000

6/2/78

92,400

112,500

82,000

185,700

472,600

6/4/77

174,000

115,150

80,000

150,000

519,150

New Funds Requested

Comments

Dean's Recommendations

BIOLOGY

Fellowships

$ 33,000

$ 33,000

Equipment-Department

69,170

69,200

Equipment-Grainger

2,000

2,000

Faculty Salaries

1,200

1,200

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

TOTAL

$105,370

$105,400

CHEMISTRY

Fellowships

$ 42,000

$ 42,000

Equipment- Department

21,500

21,500

Equipment-Cafiso

21,000

21,000

Faculty Salaries

\-

\-

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

TOTAL

$ 84,500

$ 34,500

MATHEMATICS

Fellowships

$ 26,000

$ 26,000

Equipment-Department

\-

$6,000\* \*originally planned as URPC request

6,000

Faculty Salaries

60,400

54,400

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

TOTAL

$ 86,400

$ 86,400

PHYSICS

Fellowships

$ 20,000

$ 20,000

Equipment-Department

30,000

30,000

Equipment-Poon

36,000

36,000

Equipment-New Faculty

75,000

75,000

Equipment-Ritter

10,700

10,700

Equipment-Ziock

10,000

\-

Faculty Salaries

37,870

25,700

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

TOTAL

$219,570

$197,400

ARTS AND SCIENCES TOTAL

$495,840

$473,700

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the budget for the expenditure of $775,622 of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in Arts and Sciences for 1981-82, as suggested by the department chairmen, as recommended by the Special Advisory Committee on Pratt Funds of the Center for Advanced Studies, and as approved by the President and the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies as approved the following budget for the Pratt funds in the School of edicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of edicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual isbursement of the estate is $822,567 to be divided equally between Arts nd Sciences and Medicine; in addition, there is a one time allocation of ncome accumulated before the disbursement program was established of pproximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

1981-82TotalResearch:Support of Graduate Research Assistants85,00085,000Supplemental Funds for the Image Analysis System6,0006,000Instrumentation for the Development of Neuropathology and Neurooncology Research50,00050,000Support of Fluorescence Activated Cell-Sorter (FACS)44,46244,462Partial Support of a Symposium on Adenosine35,00035,000Human Tumor Stem Cell Assay in Soft Agar Culture38,96038,960International Conference, "New Research Issues in Diabetes12,50012,500Supplemental Funds for the Developmental Biology Program30,00030,000TOTAL301,922301,922Amount previously approved by the Board of Visitors: June 1980493,930June 1979362,940June 1978378,000Jan 1978470,761Oct 1977150,000

APPROVED:

APPROVED

Investigator(s)Title of ProposalDepartment or ProgramBudget RequestedRecommended BudgetRecommendationR. BiltonenSupport of Graduate Education$85,000$85,000ApprovalE. RubelSupplemental Funds for the Image Analysis SystemOtolaryngology and Neuroscience Program$6,000$6,000 for equipmentApprovalL. Rubenstein and M. HermanInstrumentation for the Development of Neuropathology and Neurooncology ResearchDivision of Neuropathology$55,607$50,000ApprovalDrs. Kay and QuesenberrySupport of FACSDepartment of Internal Medicine$92,362$44,462ApprovalRobert BernePartial Support of a Symposium on AdenosinePhysiology$35,000$35,000ApprovalJohns, Anderson, Dunn, Elkon, Fechner, Kim, Mills, Quesenberry, WyandtHuman Tumor Stem Cell Assay in Soft Agar CultureDepartment of Otolaryngology and the Human Tumor Cloning Lab of the Division of Head and Neck Oncology$62,960 (two years)$38,960 (one year)ApprovalJ. LarnerInternational Conference, "New Research Issues in Diabetes"Diabetes Center$12,500$12,500ApprovalSupplemental Funds for the Developmental Biology ProgramDevelopmental Biology$30,000$30,000Approval

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies as approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments n Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were iology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used n three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding tudents, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual isbursement of the estate is $822,567 to be divided equally between Arts nd Sciences and Medicine; in addition, there is a one time allocated of ncome accumulated before the disbursement program was established of pproximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsTotaltudent Support: Graduate and undergraduate33,00042,00026,00020,000121,000aculty Salary Supplement1,20054,40025,70081,300quipment71,20042,5006,000151,700271,400TOTAL105,40084,50086,400197,400473,700mount previously pproved by Board of isitors:6/7/80106,00083,70080,90089,000359,6006/2/7981,300171,00028,70089,000370,0006/2/7892,400112,50082,000185,700472,6006/4/77174,000115,15080,000150,000519,150

PPROVED:

APPROVED:

New Funds RequestedCommentsDean's RecommendationsBIOLOGYFellowships$ 33,000$ 33,000Equipment-Department69,17069,200Equipment-Grainger2,0002,000Faculty Salaries1,2001,200\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_TOTAL$105,370$105,400CHEMISTRYFellowships$ 42,000$ 42,000Equipment- Department21,50021,500Equipment-Cafiso21,00021,000Faculty Salaries--\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_TOTAL$ 84,500$ 34,500MATHEMATICSFellowships$ 26,000$ 26,000Equipment-Department-$6,000\* \*originally planned as URPC request 6,000Faculty Salaries60,40054,400\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_TOTAL$ 86,400$ 86,400PHYSICSFellowships$ 20,000$ 20,000Equipment-Department30,00030,000Equipment-Poon36,00036,000Equipment-New Faculty75,00075,000Equipment-Ritter10,70010,700Equipment-Ziock10,000-Faculty Salaries37,87025,700\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_TOTAL$219,570$197,400ARTS AND SCIENCES TOTAL$495,840$473,700

originally planned as URPC request

1) $6,000 is requested for an intelligent terminal and accessories to provide the department more effective use of the main frame computers and to provide a word processing capability that can be extended to mathematical typology.

2) $6,000 requested for a Special Colloquium lecture series has been deleted, because it does not meet the terms of the bequest.

1) $4,500 of faculty salary requested for Mr. Poon has been deleted. Mr. Poon will be funded 100% from state funds.

2) $7,000 of faculty salary requested for Mr. Zaidi has been deleted as not recommended by Dean.

3) $10,000 is equipment for Mr. Ziock has been deleted as not recommended by Dean.

REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
---------------------------------

Schedules

1-19

Staff/Faculty and Non-University charges for support services, including parking and other fines

$35,852.19

20-44

Student charges for support services including parking and other fines

16,495.51

50

Student Tuition and Fees

5,519.39

51-56

Departmental Accounts Receivable

52,235.31

57-58

Student Loans

4,902.85

$115,005.25

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Accounts Bad Debts Committee and Service Support Units Bad Debts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to write off as bad debts the accounts appearing on Schedules 1 through 58 totaling $115,005.25 consisting of the following: Schedules1-19Staff/Faculty and Non-University charges for support services, including parking and other fines$35,852.1920-44Student charges for support services including parking and other fines16,495.5150Student Tuition and Fees5,519.3951-56Departmental Accounts Receivable52,235.3157-58Student Loans4,902.85$115,005.25 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

NOMINATION OF LOUIS T. RADER TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ALUMNI PATENT FOUNDATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Louis T. Rader be and he is hereby nominated to serve on the Board of the University of Virginia Alumni Patent Foundation.

RESOLUTION BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CONCERNING DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN UNCLAIMED TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective July 1, 1981, the procedure provided in Section 23-4.2A, Code of Virginia, be and it is hereby adopted for the disposition of the unclaimed tangible personal property described therein. The President may designate from time to time one or more University employees who shall be responsible for administering such procedure as it pertains to such respective categories of property as the President may deem appropriate. The net proceeds of any sale under such procedure shall be credited to the University's operating fund for the department submitting the property to the designated administrator for sale.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF NOT IN EXCESS OF $7,500,000 ENDOWMENT FUND REVENUE BONDS OF 1981 OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF AN INDENTURE WITH RESPECT THERETO
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to issue and sell not in excess of $7,500,000 of its Endowment Fund Revenue Bonds of 1981 (the "Bonds") in order to provide funds to refund its outstanding Bond Anticipation Notes of 1980 (the "Notes") or to refund other of its notes issued to refund the Notes, andWHEREAS, the University is authorized to issue its notes and bonds for such purposes under and by virtue of the Authority vested in it by Section 23-30.01 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended (the "Act"), and to enter into contracts and indentures to secure such notes and bonds and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof; andWHEREAS, the University desires to enter into an indenture with a corporate trustee to be selected by the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University, to secure the aforesaid Bonds and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof.NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:1. In order to refund the Notes of other notes of the University issued to refund such Notes, the University hereby authorizes the issuance and sale of not in excess of $7,500,000 principal amount of its Bonds to be issued with the consent of the Governor under the Act and pursuant to the terms and conditions of an indenture in substantially the same form, with appropriate changes, omissions and insertions as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof, as the indenture presented to this meeting and attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Indenture").2. The Bonds shall be dated the first day of the month during which the Bonds are issued and shall mature on such dates as may be determined by the Executive Committee, provided that the final maturity date of the Bonds shall not be more than ten years after the issue date of the Bonds.3. The Bonds shall bear interest from the date thereof until paid, payable semi-annually at the rate approved by the Executive Committee, but not in excess of ten percent (10%) per annum, upon the acceptance of the successful bid for the Bonds and the award of the sale thereof to the Purchaser.4. The Bonds shall be in bearer form with coupons, issued in the denomination of $5,000 each, and shall be numbered from one (1) consecutively upwards in order of maturity.5. The Bonds shall be sold at not less than par by public sale through competitive bidding, and sealed bids for the purchase thereof in accordance with the terms of an official notice of sale in substantially the same form as may be approved by the Executive Committee shall be received on such date and time as may be hereafter determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University. The Vice President for Business and Finance of the University is hereby authorized to receive and consider all sealed bids presented pursuant to the official notice of sale and to award the sale of the Bonds and enter into a contract or contracts of sale on the part of the University, in accordance with the provisions of the most favorable bid received, determined as that bid offering the lowest net interest cost to the University; provided, however, that the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University in his discretion may reject all bids received and may waive any irregularity or informality with respect to any bid.6. The Vice President for Business and Finance of the University is authorized to distribute, in substantially the same form as may be approved by the Executive Committee, a preliminary official statement relating to the Bonds to such parties as he may deem appropriate, and to take such other steps preliminary to the sale of the Bonds as he may deem appropriate including the presentation of information to rating agencies in order to obtain ratings for the Bonds.7. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, University Comptroller, Secretary, any Assistant Secretary of the University and any other officer of the University so authorized by other resolution of the University are hereby authorized to take such actions, including the execution and delivery of the Indenture and of required certificates, as may be necessary to the issuance and delivery of the Bonds and giving effect to this resolution.8. The Executive Committee is hereby authorized and empowered to take any and all action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Bonds that may be deemed to require approval by the Board.9. In the event that the Executive Committee shall determine not to issue Bonds hereunder on or prior to November 6, 1981 for the repayment of the Notes maturing on such date, the Executive Committee, with the consent of the Governor, is authorized and directed to sell, at either public o private sale, and issue bond anticipation notes for such purpose on or prior to such date in a principal amount not in excess of the outstanding principal balance of such Notes, such bond anticipation notes to be dated such date, mature within two years of the date of issue thereof, be payable as to interest at such times, and bear interest at such rate as the Executive Committee shall determine. Any such bond anticipation notes shall be issued upon substantially the same terms and conditions and be secured by substantially the same covenants and pledges as are contained in the resolution of the University authorizing the issuance and sale of the aforesaid Notes.10. The Vice President for Business and Finance is hereby authorized to select and designate as trustee under the Indenture and as paying agents thereunder such banks, trust companies, or national banking associations as he may deem appropriate which have the qualifications prescribed in Section 1202 of the Indenture.11. This resolution shall be effective immediately.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby reelected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Theodore D. Allen as Associate Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Charles D. Bentley as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David M. Donathan as Assistant Professor of Music, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Roger D. Irle as Associate Professor of Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Louis A. Kinum as Assistant Professor of Management, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Lana W. Low as Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Colby F. McLemore as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John G. McNutt as Assistant Professor of Social Welfare, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. George L. Hawpe, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Bill J. Lee, Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Ms. Mary L. Sohn, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Jefferson L. Townsend, Associate Professor of Social Welfare and Director, Social Welfare, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. James R. Baird as Chairman, Division of Mathematics and Sciences and Chairman, Biology Department, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Sandra A. Chapman as Associate Director of Admissions, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Zouqul H. Chowdhury as Chairman, Mathematics Department, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Sheila B. Cox as Director of Student Financial Aid, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Van W. Daniel, III, as Chairman, Department of Physical Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David M. Donathan as Acting Chairman, Department of Performing Arts, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Bonnie P. Elosser as Dean of Students, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Coordinator, Cooperative Education Program, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jack M. Holland as Chairman, Division of Education and Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Colby F. McLemore as Manager of Computer Services, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Richard H. Peake as Chairman, Humanities Division and English Department, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo as Chairman, Foreign Language Department, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Eric B. Wagner as Director of Admissions, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Leo S. Willis as Chairman of the History and Philosophy Departments, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter S. Yun as Chairman, Professional and Social Sciences Division, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRESIGNATION
--------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Ms. Judith D. Whittemore, Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Northern Virginia Regional Office:Mr. Richard D. Crosby, Jr., as Lecturer in Continuing Education, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for the period May 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Richard D. Crosby, Jr., as Associate Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for the period May 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 5:02 p.m.

RCB:AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT A Investment Guidelines for the University of Virginia's Eminent Scholars Fund
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investment Objective

The primary investment objective of the fund is to earn a current return (interest or dividend) which meets current spending requirements for endowed chairs including matching fund participation by the State of Virginia in the Eminent Scholars Program. The current return requirement is presently 6-7% of market value of the fund. A secondary objective is to provide growth in income equal to one-half the annual rate of inflation as measured by the Higher Education Price Index.

Investment Philosophy

Investments should be made from a stable, long-term perspective with moderate turnover. Extreme positions or very opportunistic styles should be avoided. The fund need not be fully diversified by asset class and equity sectors as is the case with Consolidated Endowment. In keeping with this, and to ensure maximum investment flexibility subject to the current income requirement, single rather than multiple management is preferred. The fund will be monitored on a continual basis, with the focus on current income and growth in income rather than total return, but results will be evaluated on a long-term basis.

Investment Policies

1\. Asset mix (the ratio of stocks, bonds, and money market instruments) is left to the discretion of the manager, given the constraint that equities plus equity reserves shall equal a minimum of 65%.

2\. Strategies which would result in more than 20% of equity assets committed to securities rated B or lower or bonds below the top three quality ratings should be reviewed in advance with the Finance Committee.

3\. Strategies which would result in more than 20% of equity assets committed to companies with less than $200mm in market capitalization should be reviewed in advance with the Finance Committee.

4\. Heavy concentration of equity or bond assets in only a few industries (telephones and electrical utilities excepted for bonds) should be avoided. Although full diversification of the fund is not required or desired, diversification should be sufficient to meet fiduciary standards and should be monitored by the Vice President for Business and Finance and his staff.

5\. Strategies which would result in annual equity turnover in excess of 25% or bond turnover in excess of 50% should be reviewed in advance with the Finance Committee.

6\. Foreign securities (except listed ADR's and Canadians), security options, private placements, equity real estate (except through associated ventures), direct mortgages, and venture capital interests are not to be purchased or sold by the fund.
