---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1982'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 16, 1982
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:30 p.m., in Open Session on October 14, 1982, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent: Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey and Robert V. Hatcher, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on October 16, 1982, at 11:00 a.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent: William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., and Glenn B. Updike, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond Haas, Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Edwin E. Floyd and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 5, 1982, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 33 of the Board meeting agenda for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 17 on that Committee's agenda for consultation with legal counsel regarding litigation as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 16 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for future expansion of the Medical Center if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (2) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 15 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing of public funds where competition or bargaining are involved, where if made public initially, the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (5) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 9 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing of public funds where competition or bargaining are involved, where if made public initially, the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (5) of the Virginia Code.(f) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 10 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for future expansion of the Medical Center if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (2) of the Virginia Code.(g) That the Educational Policy Committee go into Executive Session for Item Number 20 on that Committee's agenda for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(h) That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 11 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the addition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (2) of the Virginia Code.(j) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 21 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees, or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (1) of the Virginia Code.(j) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item No. 1 on that Committee's agenda for the evaluation of schools and departments as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (1) of the Virginia Code.

APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE OF BONDS FOR FINANCING OF TELEPHONE SYSTEM
---------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, in connection with a meeting of the Finance Committee held on October 16, 1982, a quorum of the Board being present, unanimously adopted the following resolution:

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF $7,500,000 ENDOWMENT FUND REVENUE BONDS OF 1982 OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF AN INDENTURE WITH RESPECT THERETO.

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to issue and sell $7,500,000 of its Endowment Fund Revenue Bonds of 1982 (the "Bonds") in order to provide funds to refund its outstanding Bond Anticipation Notes of 1981 (the "Notes"); and

WHEREAS, the University is authorized to issue its bonds for such purposes under and by virtue of the Authority vested in it by Section 23-30.1 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended (the "Act"), and to enter into contracts and indentures to secure such bonds and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof; and

WHEREAS, the University desires to enter into an indenture with a corporate trustee to be selected by the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University, to secure the aforesaid Bonds and to provide for the rights of the holders thereof.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

1\. In order to refund the Notes, the University hereby authorizes the issuance and sale of not in excess of $7,500,000 principal amount of its Bonds to be issued with the consent of the Governor under the Act and pursuant to the terms and conditions of an indenture in substantially the same form, with appropriate changes, omissions and insertions as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof, as the indenture presented to this meeting and attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Indenture").

2\. The Bonds shall be dated the first day of December, 1982, and shall mature on the first day of September in each of the years 1984 through 1992 in such amounts as may be set forth in the winning bid therefor.

3\. The Bonds shall bear interest from the date thereof until paid, payable semi-annually at the rates set forth in the winning bid therefor.

4\. The Bonds shall be in bearer form with coupons, issued in the denomination of $5,000 each, and shall be numbered from one (1) consecutively upwards in order of maturity.

5\. The Bonds shall be sold at not less than par by public sale through competitive bidding, and sealed bids for the purchase thereof in accordance with the terms of an official notice of sale in substantially the same form as presented to this meeting shall be received on such date and time as may be hereafter determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance of the University. The Vice President for Business and Finance is hereby authorized to receive and consider all sealed bids presented pursuant to the official notice of sale and to award the sale of the Bonds and enter into a contract or contracts of sale on the part of the University, in accordance with the provisions of the most favorable bid received, determined as that bid offering the lowest true interest cost to the University; provided, however, that the Vice President for Business and Finance in his discretion may reject all bids received and may waive any irregularity or informality with respect to any bid.

6\. The Vice President for Business and Finance is authorized to distribute to such parties as he may deem appropriate, a preliminary official statement relating to the Bonds in substantially the same form as presented to this meeting with appropriate changes, omissions and insertions as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof, and to take such other steps preliminary to the sale of the Bonds as he may deem appropriate, including the presentation of information to rating agencies in order to obtain ratings for the Bonds.

7\. The Vice President for Business and Finance is hereby authorized to select and designate as trustee under the Indenture and as paying agents thereunder such banks, trust companies, or national banking associations as he may deem appropriate which have the qualifications prescribed in Section 1202 of the Indenture.

8\. Upon acceptance of a bid for the purchase of the Bonds, the Vice President for Business and Finance shall complete in accordance with such bid all appropriate blanks in the preliminary Official Statement relating to the Bonds, make such changes and corrections as he may deem appropriate, and sign the same as an Official Statement of the University.

9\. The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, and any other officer of the University so authorized by other resolution of the University are hereby authorized to take such actions, including the execution and delivery of the Bonds, the Indenture and required certificates, as may be necessary to the issuance and delivery of the Bonds and giving effect to this resolution.

10\. Upon delivery of the bonds, the Vice President for Business and Finance shall cause to be deposited with the trustee under the Indenture the proceeds of sale of the bonds and such additional amount, not to exceed $ 250,000, as shall be necessary to discharge the lien of the October 9, 1981 resolution authorizing the issuance of the Notes.

11\. The Executive Committee is hereby authorized and empowered to take any and all action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Bonds that may be deemed to require approval by the Board.

12\. This resolution shall be effective immediately.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 11:00 a.m., on October 16, 1982.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Milne Anderson as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. G. Beatrice R. Aton as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. William J. Babler as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for the period September 1, 1982 through April 30, 1983.Mr. Richard J. Becherer as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Faye Z. Belgrave as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Michael L. Bentley as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Gregory A. Brewer as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Alan W. Cafruny as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Joseph F. Chance as Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Ana G. Chichester as Lecturer in Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Robert Chuong as Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery and Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Paula A. Ciavarella as Instructor in Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Miss Beth A. Collins as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Stephen J. Colucci as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Daniel M. Crane as Lecturer in Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Park E. Dietz as Associate Professor of Law and Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James C. Dobbins as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Kandioura Drame as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Twila M. Driver as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William H. Dubbs as Instructor in Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 16, 1982.Dr. Sharon A. Esau as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Amando V. Esguerra as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. David S. Fedson as Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Willard L. Fitch as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Michael R. Fontham as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Patrick C. Fowler as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Mary L. Gallagher as Lecturer, General Faculty, The Darden School, for one year, effective August 24, 1982.Mr. Bernard S. Gerstman as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter Goddard as Visiting Professor of Mathematics and Physics, for the period January 1, 1983 through April 30, 1983.Mr. Frank H. Gorman, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Dr. Elliott C. Haley, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Shakur Hamidi-Toosi as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. John B. Hanks as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Erwin C. Hargrove as Scholar-in-Residence, Miller Center of Public Affairs, for the period September 1, 1982 through December 31, 1982.Ms. Joan F. Hartman as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Mark E. Hawley as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James G. Hecker as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 16, 1982.Mr. James L. Heesom as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Janet Herman as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. David A. Herold as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Pham O. Hung as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Howard O. Hunter as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter C. Isakson as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective June 1, 1982.Ms. Lainee M. James as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period August 16, 1982 through May 15, 1983.Dr. Roy Jedeikin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. David K. Jemiolo as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Arne C. Jorgensen as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1983.Mr. David H. Kaye as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. John G. Kenney as Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Robyn M. Kerler as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Ms. Elayne S. Kornblatt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Irving L. Kron as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Roman Krzysztofowicz as Associate Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Thomas P. Kuhlmann as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for the period July 16, 1982 through June 30, 1985.Dr. Paul R. Lambert as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 16, 1982.Dr. Niels Lund as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Physiology, for the period July 1, 1982 through June 13, 1983.Mr. Dennis G. Lyons as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William J. MacDonald as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Worthy N. Martin as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Carmen Martin-Gaite as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Steven P. Martindale as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Viola Mayer as Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. James C. McDaniel, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Martin J. McMahon, Jr. as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David E. Menotti as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Dr. Robert M. Mentzer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. William L. Miller as Professor of Rhetoric and Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Kailash C. Misra as Research Instructor in Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Kim M. Mitchell as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Marilyn A. Morgan as Associate Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Nicholas H. Morgan as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Dr. Raymond F. Morgan as Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Miss Sandra M. Norris as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Robert A. Oden as Visiting Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mrs. Myra D. Orth as Associate Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. JoAnne C. Paradise as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Evelyn Powers as Instructor in Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Donald E. Priest as Associate Professor of Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Marilynn A. Prince-Fiocco as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for the period August 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Roger O. Printup as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Visespong Punyanitya as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Paul L. Puryear as Professor, General Faculty, Student Affairs, and Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Lawrence J. Raifman as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, and Assistant Professor of Legal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Irven M. Resnick as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Miss Patricia U. Richards as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period July 16, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Carolyn S. Russ as Instructor in Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Worthington G. Schenk, III as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Stuart R. Schurmann as Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Stephanie O. Scruggs as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Donald L. Shaw as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. James K. Sparkman as Visiting Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Eileen M. Stephens as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Margaret D. Stetz as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Mark Thomas as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Paul T. Twohig as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Miss Catherine J. Webb as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Carroll W. Westfall as Visiting Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Linda S. White as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period October 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Rosalyn C. Wiggins as Instructor in Speech Communication, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Raymond C. Wolf as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Craig R. Zabel as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter A. Zheutlin as Lecturer in Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF MR. EDMUND W. KITCH
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Edmund W. Kitch, Professor of Law, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1982, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Edmund W. Kitch as Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1982.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby made as shown below:Mr. Robert Bierstedt as Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Martha A. Derthick as Julia Allen Cooper Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Charles J. Flickinger as Harvey E. Jordan Professor of Anatomy, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Charles J. Goetz as Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas E. Hutchinson as William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective October 1, 1982.Dr. David E. Longnecker as Distinguished Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. George W. McKinney as Virginia Bankers Professor of Bank Management, School of Commerce, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Jeffrey O'Connell as John Allan Love Professor of Law, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. Edgar A. Pessemier as C. Stewart Sheppard Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Thomas A. E. Platts-Mills as Oscar Swineford, Jr., Professor of Medicine, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Edgar A. Starke, Jr., as Earnest Jackson Oglesby Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective January 1, 1983.Dr. G. Frederick Wooten as Mary Anderson Harrison Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1982.(b) Changes of TitleMr. Ernest L. Folk, III, from Charles O. Gregory Professor of Law, to William S. Potter Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Norman A. Graebner, from Edward R. Stettinius Professor of History, to Randolph P. Compton Professor of Public Affairs at the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, and Professor of History, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William G. Shenkir, from Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Commerce, to William Stamps Farish Professor of Free Enterprise, School of Commerce, effective July 1, 1982.(c) Leaves of AbsenceMr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to visit the University of Illinois.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, as part-time Counsel to the Covington and Burling Law Firm in Washington, D. C.Mr. Charles O. Jones, Robert Kent Gooch Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to accept an invitation as a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D. C.(d) ResignationMr. Ernest A. Gellhorn, T. Munford Boyd Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Mark B. Ardis as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Miss Varnell Armstrong as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Gary R. Atkinson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Roanoke Regional Office of Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Tyler A. Baker, III as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Gary Balian as Associate Professor of Orthopaedics and Biochemistry, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Manfred Bansleben as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Robert M. Beckstead as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective August 16, 1982.Mr. Giorgio Bellavitis as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1982 through November 7, 1982.Dr. Barbara Z. Berk as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Phyllis Binder as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Pediatrics, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Charles H. Boggs as Assistant Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Armistead P. Booker as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Robert J. Bradley as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Sydney S. Breese, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Larissa V. Brown as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker as Associate Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Orthopeadics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. James P. Caldwell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Robert A. Cecil as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Kang Cheng as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective November 1, 1982.Miss Janis C. Childs as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Jane C. Clarke as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Walter D. Connor as Visiting Professor of Sociology, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Randall T. Curnow as Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Robert A. Darnall, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Lee L. Davenport as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Placido H. DeGuzman as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Mary W. Dickie as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period June 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Mary A. Dinger as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Susanna N. Dyer as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Victor H. Engelhard as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Ms. Marjorie Flavin as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Irving S. Friedman as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Ms. Uliana F. Gabara as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Mohammad R. Ghanoonparvar as Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Mihai Gheorghiade as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Joseph Gieck as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Theodore W. Graves, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Ingrid G. Grieger as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Stephen J. Hartley as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, for the period September 1, 1982 through October 31, 1982.Mr. Robert J. Havlen as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Gregory F. Hayden as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. David J. Hayes as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Stephen V. Heim as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Lee E. Hersch as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Brian C. Hoard as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Brian C. Hocking as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Brian C. Hocking as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Roger G. Hood as Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, for the periods October 4, 1982 through October 10, 1982, and March 21, 1983 through April 30, 1983.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William S. Hopson, IV as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Dennis T. Hu as Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter B. Huber as Scholar in Residence of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mrs. Dana C. Hughes as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David H. Ibbeken as Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Rajiv Jain as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Alvis W. Jeffreys, Jr. as Clinical Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Gary T. Johnson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Karen R. Johnson as Associate Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Michael L. Johnson as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Michael H. Kaplan as Associate Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Yong I. Kim as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Neurology, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mrs. Phyllis R. Koch-Sheras as Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Erich L. Kosowitz as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sherry P. Kraft as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Randal A. Lemke as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Michael G. Levien as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William B. Levy as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Jon A. Lindseth as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. John Lloyd as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Ivan S. Login as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William L. Lurie as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sara J. Mapstone as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John M. Markwood as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Victor F. Marshall as Professor of Urology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Jack L. Mason as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Southwestern Virginia Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Marjorie B. McElroy as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for five academic years, spring semesters only, effective January 16, 1983.Ms. Mary E. McGee as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Steven A. Meixel as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine and Physician, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective August 16, 1982.Mr. Patrick J. Michaels as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Ronald W. Michener as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mihajlo N. Mihajlov as Visiting Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Eugene C. Moncrief as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. P. Henry Mueller as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas Newbolt as Visiting Scholar in Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Elliott R. Pearl as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Lester S. Pearlstein as Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Richard D. Pearson as Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Ms. Katharine S. Popp as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Adelle M. Renzaglia as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sheila S. Rinehart as Visiting Scholar in Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Fred D. Rosi as Research Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Jerry B. Saffer as Clinical Associate Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Nancy F. Santilli as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Frank T. Saulsbury as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Terry A. Schwartz as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Catherine H. Seaman as Associate Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Charlene M. Sedgwick as Assistant Professor of English, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Narendra C. Shah as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Zhen-Heng Shao as Visiting Associate Professor of Orthopaedics, for the period July 1, 1982 through November 30, 1982.Dr. Robert B. Sharp as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Neil McD. Shawen as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Mary C. Shemo as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, and Psychiatrist, Department of Student Health, for three years, effective November 16, 1982.Mr. Norman S. Siegel as Visiting Lecturer, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Christopher Slobogin as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period July 1, 1982 through August 13, 1982.Mr. Willis J. Spaulding as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Burton Spivak as Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Supramaniam Srinivasan as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective June 1, 1982.Dr. Aubrey L. Stafford as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Frances A. Stephenson as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one month, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Graham B. Strong as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William M. Sutherland as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas P. Sutula as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Richard A. Tomasulo as Assistant Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Sterling Vines as Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Diane K. Wakat as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert C. Walker as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Charles Warner as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Lewis A. Weber as Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Sander Weinreb as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Lois A. Weithorn as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Hugh H. Wells as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Richard Whitehill as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Peter G. Whiteman as Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. R. Roy Whitney as Research Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John D. Wilkes as Visiting Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. William G. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe as Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Jerry O. Wolff as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Mary F. Yeager as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Tatsuo Yoneyama as Associate Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Albert S. Yoon as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. Paul A. Carmichael from Clinical Instructor in Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Edith C. Lawrence from Instructor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education to Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Elaine R. Martin from Instructor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. David P. Minichan from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. James C. Morris from Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Marsha T. Rogers from Instructor, General Faculty, School of Law to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Joyce S. Schmidt from Instructor in Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Rome H. Walker from Clinical Instructor in Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Edwin L. Williams from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.

CORRECTION IN THE DATE OF PROMOTION OF DR. W. MICHAEL SCHELD
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the promotion of Dr. W. Michael Scheld, Associate Professor of Medicine, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1982, be changed to read as follows:Dr. W. Michael Scheld, from Assistant Professor of Medicine, to Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. James H. Aylor, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period September 1, 1982 through August 31, 1983, for educational leave.Mr. Tyler A. Baker, III, Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to conclude term as Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice.Dr. Bruce G. Bateman, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period January 1, 1983 through December 31, 1983, to work at medical facility in Saudi Arabia.Mr. Samuel E. Bodily, Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to be a Visiting Professor at the University of Washington.Mr. Warren Boeschenstein, Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to teach at the Bartlett School, University College, London, England.Mr. William L. Breit, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to accept a visiting position at Trinity University.Ms. Mary A. Dinger, Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period October 1, 1982 through September 30, 1983, to do research for an historical novel.Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. William M. Frank, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to visit Pennsylvania State University.Mr. Michael Garstang, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to assist USAD for International Development.Mr. Paul S. Groner, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to accept a Fellowship for writing and research.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to conduct research as a Humboldt Fellow in Germany.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period September 1, 1982 through September 30, 1982, to perform medical services as part of religious vocation.Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period July 1, 1982 through July 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Ms. Sarah C. Lin, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, for one month, effective August 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Carnes Lord, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to continue his appointment with the National Security Council.Mr. James E. Mann, Jr., Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Ronald Michener, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to visit the University of Iowa.Mr. David Mills, Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to teach at Vanderbilt University.Mr. Edgar O. Olsen, Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to visit the University of Wisconsin.Mr. Gregory S. Orr, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to be Visiting Professor at the University of Hawaii.Mr. Gregory L. Powers, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to do research.Ms. Laura Rivkin, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to do research.Mr. Gilbert W. Roy, Associate Professor of Oriental Languages, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to do research.Mr. Calvin W. Sharpe, Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to visit at Wake Forest University.Mr. Charles Warner, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period July 1, 1982 through July 31, 1982, in anticipation of grant renewal.Ms. Dora Wiebenson, Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to do research and in-depth study of Vitrivius' publication and the definition of architectural professionalism.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to accept position of Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights with Department of Justice.Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective September 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Michael M. Yoshitsu, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to accept a Fulbright-Hays Fellowship.Mr. Mario di Valmarana, Associate Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1982 through October 15, 1982, for research.

CORRECTION IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. PAUL LIGHT
----------------------------------------------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. William G. Anlyan, Jr. from Lecturer, The Darden School to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective June 1, 1982.Mr. Michael D. Atchison from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period June 1, 1982 through May 31, 1984.Miss Jane P. Balint from Instructor in Nursing to Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Ann L. Beyer from Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas M. Boyd from Instructor in Education and Instructor, Institute of Clinical Psychology to Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Patricia Click from Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Stephen B. Cushman from Acting Assistant Professor of English to Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William B. Gartner from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Mary A. Gunter from Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James C. Hecker from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Janine C. Jagger from Instructor in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Instructor in Neurological Surgery, General Medical Faculty, and Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Rodney D. Kibler from Instructor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education to Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Daniel N. Kulund from Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation to Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1982.Mr. David J. Layfield from Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1982.Dr. Niels Lund from Visiting Research Professor of Anesthesiology and Physiology to Research Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Physiology, for the period July 1, 1982 through June 13, 1983.Mr. Gary W. Marks from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Jan M. Marshall from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985.Dr. Thomas A. Massaro from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Paul McKinnon from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Deborah Roberts from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Merrell P. Runquist from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Bryce L. Shriver from Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Visiting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Daniel A. Spyker from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Ulhas B. Andalkar, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective May 27, 1982, for personal reasons.Ms. Mary L. Cozad, Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Winston L. Edmonds, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 11, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Gabor Follinus, Assistant Professor of Russian Language and Literature, effective May 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. Ted A. Glass, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Lincoln C. Gray, Research Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, effective September 30, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Bradley T. Hargroves, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Emily J. Hauenstein, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective July 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. James L. Hoban, Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Douglas P. Howard, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. Robert A. Jahrsdoerfer, Professor of Otolaryngology, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Karen R. Johnson, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective December 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Mark D. Johnston, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Robert G. Langdon, Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, effective July 31, 1982, Chairmanship only.Ms. Delois Lindsay-Newton, Director, Black Culture Center, effective September 30, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Jan Marshall, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1982, to accept a position with the Division of Continuing Education as Nursing Program Specialist.Dr. Daryl B. Matthews, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Professor of Economics and a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Mary L. McMartin, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective August 20, 1982, to return to school.Mr. Allan T. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Ferid Murad, Professor of Medicine and Professor of Pharmacology, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Michael D. Orlansky, Associate Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Clinton E. Parker, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. John A. Rotondo, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Charles F. Schmidt, Jr., Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Terry A. Schwartz, Assistant Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Bryce L. Shriver, Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Marika S. Simms, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Christopher Slobogin, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, effective August 13, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Otoniel R. Sullesta, Associate Professor of Radiology, Salem, effective July 15, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Derek Tynan, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1982, to return to Ireland.Mr. Stefan Waner, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Richard S. Weisman, Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Harry A. Wellons, Jr., Professor of Surgery, effective July 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Barbara L. Wells, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Emmagene Wright, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective July 26, 1982, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William G. Anlyan, Jr. as Assistant to the Vice President for Health Affairs for Development, for three years, effective June 1, 1982.Mr. J. S. Brenizer as Director of the Reactor, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Martha A. Derthick as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Charles J. Flickinger as Chairman, Department of Anatomy, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas E. Hutchinson as Associate Dean of Graduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Robert E. Johnson as Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert W. McGilvery as Chairman, Department of Biochemistry, for three years, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Nicholas H. Morgan as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Bernard A. Morin as Senior Associate Dean and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Commerce, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Roger O. Printup as University Registrar, for five years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Paul L. Puryear as Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for five years, effective August 1, 1982.Ms. Jean L. Rayburn as Dean of Admissions, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Roy Wagner as Chairman of the Department of Anthropology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.

CORRECTION IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. EDMUND W. KITCH
----------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the date of the appointment of Mr. Edmund W. Kitch, as announced to the Board on June 5, 1982, has been changed to read as follows: Mr. Edmund W. Kitch, as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. William W. Abbot as Editor, Papers of George Washington, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Gary R. Atkinson as Director of the Roanoke Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Alan P. Batson as Director of Academic Computing, for the period June 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Miss Barbara M. Brodie as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr. as Director of the Central Virginia Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Mary W. Dickie as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for the period June 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Mary A. Dinger as Associate Director of the Summer Session, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III as Co-Chairman, Division of Architecture, for two years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert J. Gwinn as Director of the Lynchburg Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William S. Hopson, IV as Assistant Dean for Placement, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Priscilla O. Jobe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. James E. Kinard as University History Officer, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William F. Lanier as Director of the Northern Virginia Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Delois Lindsay-Newton as Director, Black Culture Center, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Corneal J. Mack as Director of the Hampton Roads Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Jack L. Mason as Director of the Southwestern Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John J. Owen as Special Assistant to the Vice President for Development, for one year, effective August 16, 1982.Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, School of Education, for four years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. D. Helaine Patterson as Director, Medical Center Information Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Lois Smith-Owens as Assistant Director, Carter G. Woodson Institute, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Graham B. Strong as Director of the Clinical Program, School of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Alton L. Taylor as Director of the Summer Session, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr. as Director of the Richmond Regional Office of the Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. William G. Walton, Jr. as Assistant to the Vice President and Provost, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Richard G. Wilson as Chairman, Division of Architectural History, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology, effective June 30, 1982. He has been a member of the faculty since 1941.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology.

DEATH OF DR. JULIAN R. BECKWITH
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. FREDERICK L. BROWN
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. EDWIN E. ERICKSON
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. CHARLES P. NASH
----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. W. RALPH SINGLETON
-------------------------------

DEATH OF DR. CHARLES D. SMITH
-----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. CARL C. SPEIDEL
----------------------------

DEATH OF MRS. MARGARET M. WALLACE
---------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Environmental Sciences, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Mr. Charles W. Duncan, Jr., and to the Strake Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHNSON & HIGGINS PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Johnson and Higgins Professorship in Business Administration, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Johnson and Higgins of Virginia, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LANDMARK COMMUNICATIONS, INCORPORATED, PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Landmark Communications, Incorporated, Professorship in Business Administration, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Landmark Communications, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ORTHOPEDICS AND REHABILITATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine, a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Orthopedics and Rehabilitation. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN DIAGNOSTIC RADIOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Diagnostic Radiology. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN PLASTIC SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Professorship to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Plastic Surgery. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDWIN B. KYLE PROFESSORSHIP IN CHRISTIAN STUDIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Edwin B. Kyle Professorship in Christian Studies, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Mr. Edwin B. Kyle, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RANDOLPH P. COMPTON PROFESSORSHIP AT THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established the Randolph P. Compton Professorship in Public Affairs in an academic department to be designated by the Vice President and Provost, as appropriate to the incumbent's activities and participation in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs. The Board is grateful to the Compton Foundation, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY (OHIO) PROFESSORSHIP IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences or the School of Engineering and Applied Science as designated by the Provost, a Chair to be known as The Standard Oil Company (Ohio) Professorship in Science and Technology, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to The Standard Oil Company (Ohio), who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE O.M. VICARS PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the O.M. Vicars Professorship in Law, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is completed. The Board is grateful to Mr. Carl W. Smith, the Smith Family, the Vicars Family, and Amvest Corporation, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE OF NAME OF THE WILLIAM STANSFIELD CALCOTT PROFESSORSHIP IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the William Stansfield Calcott Professorship in Applied Mathematics and Computer Science be and it is hereby renamed the William Stansfield Calcott Professorship in Engineering and Applied Science.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on the status of construction projects was distributed to the Board. The report included a number of building and facilities renovations as well as new building projects.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,211,021.81

Free Service

$6,186,447.98

\-------------

Total

$7,397,469.79

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 21,093.03

Free Service

$606,889.42

\-------------

Total

$627,982.45

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 443 through 451 for the months of May, 1982, through July, 1982, totaling $7,397,469.79, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 491 through 498 for the months of May, 1982, through July, 1982, totaling $627,982.42, consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,211,021.81Free Service$6,186,447.98-------------Total$7,397,469.79 Blue Ridge Hospital:Bad Debts$ 21,093.03Free Service$606,889.42-------------Total$627,982.45 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF AN OPTION AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF PROPERTY IN CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on July 13, 1982, regarding Approval of an Option Agreement for the Sale of Property in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF RAYMOND M. HAAS AS PROFESSOR OF COMMERCE AND AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on July 13, 1982, regarding the election of Raymond M. Haas as Professor of Commerce and as Vice President for Administration.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING AUTHORIZATION TO SELL THE VINCENT PROPERTY IN NEW ORLEANS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on September 8, 1982, regarding the Authorization to Sell the Vincent Property in New Orleans.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF PURCHASE AGREEMENT FOR THE SEARS PROPERTY, 1100 BLOCK, WEST MAIN STREET, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on September 27, 1982, regarding the Approval of Purchase Agreement for the Sears Property, 1100 Block, West Main Street, Charlottesville, Virginia.

APPROVAL OF REVISION OF ARTICLE IX OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Article IX of the By-Laws of the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs be and it is hereby revised to read as follows:ARTICLE IX - BEGINNING AND END OF TERMSSection 1. Except as hereby provided or otherwise ordered by Council the terms of officers and of the members of Council and of the Executive Committee are to begin on the next succeeding first day of April (or upon acceptance of election filling vacancy) and terminate on the last day of March of the appropriate year.

ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected as members of the White Burkett Miller Center Council:Henry Clay Hofheimer, II, for a term of eight yearsCharles Bartlett, for a term of eight yearsJane Cahill Pfeiffer, to fill the unexpired term of Thomas A. Bartlett

ENDORSEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBB'S EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Governor Charles Robb's Executive Order Number 1, affirming the policy that employees of the Commonwealth and applicants for employment shall be afforded equal opportunity in all aspects of personnel management without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation, handicap, sex or age be, and it is hereby endorsed and approved;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that practices affording equal employment opportunity shall continue in effect at the University of Virginia.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President distributed a report on faculty salaries and compensation in AAU institutions. He reported to the Board that the University of Virginia is "holding its own" with respect to the ranking of salaries and compensation for the faculty. He noted that the ranking for full time faculty salaries dropped one rank (from 23 to 24), with a mean salary of $30,500. In terms of compensation (including fringe benefits) the University's ranking improved over last year (from 30 to 26), with a mean compensation of $36,200.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period June 3, 1982 through September 16, 1982 as presented by the Director of Audits be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF VEPCO EASEMENT AT THORNTON HALL
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an easement agreement dated June 7, 1982, be and it is hereby approved for the Virginia Electric and Power Company to install facilities for the transmission of electric power and for communications facilities at Thornton Hall.

APPROVAL OF VEPCO EASEMENT AT BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an easement agreement dated September 27, 1982, be and it is hereby approved for the Virginia Electric and Power Company to install facilities for the transmission of electric power and for communications facilities at the Blue Ridge Hospital.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1982
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/81

Board (1) (1)Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1982-83 Approval Allocations

1981-82 Expenditures

Unexpended Balance 06/30/82

Arts and Sciences

Biology

Student Support

$ 22,306.30

$ 53,900.00

$ 34,566.00

$ 41,640.30

Faculty Salary Supplement

745.41

3,800.00

515.46

4,029.95

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

105,449.32

57,000.00

23,085.57

139,363.75

$ 128,501.03

$ 114,700.00

$ 58,167.03

$ 185,034.00

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 44,575.76

$ 58,000.00

$ 44,740.80

$ 57,834.96

Faculty Salary Supplement

4,611.67

300.00

4,911.43

.24

\*Research and Equipment

114,724.26

218,800.00

76,515.48

257,008.78

$ 163,911.69

$ 277,100.00

$ 126,167.71

$ 314,843.98

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 58,841.55

$ 94,887.00

$ 78,304.93

$ 75,423.62

Faculty Salary Supplement

67,873.49

48,934.00

51,853.71

64,953.78

\*Research and Equipment

8,000.00

0.00

5,616.50

2,383.50

$ 134,715.04

$ 143,821.00

$ 135,775.14

$ 142,760.90

Physics

Student Support

$ 23,346.84

$ 40,000.00

$ 21,100.00

$ 42,246.84

Faculty Salary Supplement

23,989.98

0.00

1,160.00

22,829.98

\*Research and Equipment

225,695.79

125,000.00

79,865.02

270,830.77

$ 273,032.61

$ 165,000.00

$ 102,125.02

$ 335,907.59

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 113,979.07

$ 76,000.00

$ 53,405.95

$ 136,573.12

\*Research and Equipment

764,929.70

190,184.00

315,446.36

639,667.34

$ 878,908.77

$ 266,184.00

$ 368,852.31

$ 776,240.46

$1,579,069.14

$ 966,805.00

$ 791,087.21

$1,754,786.93

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ended June 30, 1982, be and it is hereby approved. UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1982Unexpended Balance 06/30/81Board (1) (1)Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1982-83 Approval Allocations1981-82 ExpendituresUnexpended Balance 06/30/82Arts and SciencesBiologyStudent Support$ 22,306.30$ 53,900.00$ 34,566.00$ 41,640.30Faculty Salary Supplement745.413,800.00515.464,029.95\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment105,449.3257,000.0023,085.57139,363.75$ 128,501.03$ 114,700.00$ 58,167.03$ 185,034.00ChemistryStudent Support$ 44,575.76$ 58,000.00$ 44,740.80$ 57,834.96Faculty Salary Supplement4,611.67300.004,911.43.24\*Research and Equipment114,724.26218,800.0076,515.48257,008.78$ 163,911.69$ 277,100.00$ 126,167.71$ 314,843.98MathematicsStudent Support$ 58,841.55$ 94,887.00$ 78,304.93$ 75,423.62Faculty Salary Supplement67,873.4948,934.0051,853.7164,953.78\*Research and Equipment8,000.000.005,616.502,383.50$ 134,715.04$ 143,821.00$ 135,775.14$ 142,760.90PhysicsStudent Support$ 23,346.84$ 40,000.00$ 21,100.00$ 42,246.84Faculty Salary Supplement23,989.980.001,160.0022,829.98\*Research and Equipment225,695.79125,000.0079,865.02270,830.77$ 273,032.61$ 165,000.00$ 102,125.02$ 335,907.59School of MedicineStudent Support$ 113,979.07$ 76,000.00$ 53,405.95$ 136,573.12\*Research and Equipment764,929.70190,184.00315,446.36639,667.34$ 878,908.77$ 266,184.00$ 368,852.31$ 776,240.46$1,579,069.14$ 966,805.00$ 791,087.21$1,754,786.93

Note: Allocations represent amount approved by Board for 1982-83

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF THE MASTER PLAN
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia Master Plan proposed by Land Design Research, Incorporated, be and it is hereby approved.

TRANSFER OF INCOME FROM ENDOWMENT GIFTS DESIGNATED FOR THE JEFFERSON SCHOLARS PROGRAM TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FUND
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to transfer to the University of Virginia Fund income from endowment gifts received and held by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which are restricted by donors, or designated by the Board of Visitors for the Jefferson Scholars Program with the understanding that the Alumni Association will provide annually a financial report on the Jefferson Scholars Program to the University.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President distributed a report on gifts, grants and contracts. He reported that during the period July 1, 1981 through June 30, 1982, $7,197,100 was received in private gifts. During this period $5,022,400 was received for sponsored programs.

REPORT ON CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
--------------------------

The President commented on the progress of the $90 million capital campaign drive. He said that as of September 30, the drive has netted $53,959,000 in gifts and pledges. He said that several large gifts and bequests have recently been received. The President said that the campaign has gone very well in spite of a weak economy, and that the campaign committees are pursuing the campaign goals vigorously.

AUTHORIZATION FOR EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS TO PURCHASE AND LEASE BACK REAL ESTATE AT 222 and 222A 12th STREET
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors had previously approved the acquisition of the real estate at 222 and 222A 12th Street, S.W., in the City of Charlottesville by negotiation or condemnation; andWHEREAS, the owners of said property have agreed to sell the property to the University for $87,900, if the University will lease the property back to the owners for thirty months for a rental of $10 per year;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the contract with Physicians Clinic Land Trust be, and it hereby is, approved in the form of the agreement exhibited to the meeting and that the lease-back to the Physicians Clinic Land Trust be, and it hereby is, approved in the form of the lease agreement exhibited to the meeting; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the appropriate officers be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute said agreements and to consummate the purchase and lease-back of the property, subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

ACCEPTANCE OF THREE PARCELS OF LAND AS GIFTS FROM THE SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Indenture from the Southern Railway Company, dated September 29, 1982, which conveys as a gift three parcels of land containing respectively 3.444 acres, 0.030 acre, and 0.050 acre, more or less, located adjacent to the Railway's right-of-way in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, all as more particularly described in said Indenture, be and it hereby is, accepted.

AUTHORIZATION TO ADVANCE ATTORNEYS' FEES AND EXPENSES FOR REPRESENTATION OF WILLIAM J. MORRIS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by William J. Morris, an employee of the University, in connection with a suit against him in Albemarle County Circuit Court be paid by the University to the extent of the deductible amount under the insurance coverage for the matter, provided that Mr. Morris provides the University with his written undertaking to repay all such amounts unless it shall ultimately be determined that he is authorized to be indemnified by the University as authorized by Section 13.1-205.1 of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS TO PROVIDE PRE-PLANNING SERVICES FOR THE ACQUISITION OF A MOTOR POOL FACILITY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Michael and Michael, Incorporated, be and it is hereby approved to provide pre-planning services for the acquisition of a motor pool facility.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS TO PROVIDE PRE-PLANNING SERVICES FOR ATHLETIC OFFICES AND MEETING ROOMS AND AN IMPROVED PRACTICE FACILITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Bohlin, Powell, Larkin and Cywinski of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, be and it is hereby approved to provide pre-planning services for athletic offices and meeting rooms, and an improved practice facility.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS TO PROVIDE PRE-PLANNING SERVICES FOR A NORTH GROUNDS RECREATIONAL CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Bohlin, Powell, Larkin, Cywinski of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, be and it is hereby approved for pre-planning services for a North Grounds Recreational Center.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS TO PROVIDE PRE-PLANNING SERVICES FOR AN ADDITION TO THE MR-4 RESEARCH BUILDING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architectural firm of Shriver and Holland Associates of Norfolk, Virginia, be and it is hereby approved to provide pre-planning services for an addition to the MR-4 Research Building.

AUTHORIZATION FOR EXECUTION OF DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACT FOR SPRIGG LANE STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised the Board that he has received a letter from the Albemarle Garden Club expressing concern about the preservation of the plantings at Morea. He said that the project will be studied further and an effort will be made to change the site of the building by 20 feet in order to save the trees. He stated that no further buildings are to be erected on the site, and that no parking (except for a small number of places for the handicapped) will be provided on the site.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposal of Heindl-Evans, Inc., of Mechanicsville, Virginia, be, and it hereby is, accepted for the designbuild project for student housing to be constructed on the Sprigg Lane site; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the appropriate officers be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute the necessary contract on the Commonwealth of Virginia Form of Agreement for Design-Build Construction in the amount of $1,499,700 with Heindl-Evans, Inc., subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

AUTHORIZATION FOR EXECUTION OF DESIGN BUILD CONTRACT FOR STUDENT HOUSING PROJECT BEHIND FAULKNER HOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposal of MMM-Parrish Design Associates of Ashland, Virginia, be, and it hereby is, accepted for the designbuild project for student housing to be constructed on the site behind the Faulkner House; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the appropriate officers be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute the necessary contract on the Commonwealth of Virginia Form of Agreement for Design-Build Construction in the amount of $2,383,643 with MMM-Parrish Design Associates, subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

REVISION OF GIFTS AND BEQUESTS POLICY
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Policy Statement on Gifts and Bequests be and it is hereby approved. (See Attachment A)

STATEMENT ON ADMISSIONS TO THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement be and it is hereby approved:On October 11, 1974, the Board of Visitors directed that offers of admission to out-of-State applicants be limited to such numbers as to assure that offers of admission continue to be made to all qualified Virginians. The Board has been informed that approximately 570 of the 2,495 applicants for 1982 admission to the School of Engineering and Applied Science were qualified Virginians. Thus the number of qualified Virginians exceeded the total number of places (300) which can be accommodated in the entering class by approximately 90 percent.The size of the entering class is limited by the number of faculty members, classroom and laboratory space, and the University's enrollment projections as approved by the State Council of Higher Education.In view of the current rating of excellence enjoyed by the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Board recognizes that, during the next several years, offers of admission to the School of Engineering and Applied Science may be possible only to the most highly qualified Virginians and non-Virginians.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION TO FRANK WATERS ROGERS, SR.
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Frank Waters Rogers, Sr., served with great distinction as Rector of the University of Virginia from 1966 to 1970; andWHEREAS, he was a student leader, a dedicated alumnus, and a valued member of the Board of Visitors; andWHEREAS, he made significant contributions to the University by serving as a charter member of the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs; andWHEREAS, for half a century he shared his enthusiasm and talents to support the University of Virginia and its programs;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Frank Waters Rogers, Sr., be remembered as one who made the University a central force in his life and gave unstintingly of himself to make it great.

CONFORMING TITLES OF FACULTY MEMBERS IN SPEECH AND COMMUNICATION TO NEW DEPARTMENT NAME
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the titles of all faculty members in the Department of Speech Communication be and they are hereby changed to the corresponding titles in the Department of Rhetoric and Communications Studies, effective August 30, 1982.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Guy V. Briggs as Lecturer in Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.Ms. Nancy C. Dickenson as Lecturer, Clinch Valley College, for the period September 8, 1982, through June 30, 1983.Mr. Charles E. Hegji as Assistant Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Dana G. Kilgore as Assistant Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert L. Krystock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Harsh Vardhan as Assistant Professor of Management, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence at Clinch Valley College:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, for educational purposes.Mr. Zouqul H. Chowdhury, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to be at the University of Virginia teaching and taking courses.Mr. Jack M. Holland, Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for the period October 16, 1982, through May 31, 1983, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Guy V. Briggs as Assistant Director of Continuing and Cooperative Education, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. David M. Donathan as Chairman, Department of Performing Arts, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT A UNIVERSITY POLICIES FOR THE SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND BEQUESTS The Rector and Visitors The University of Virginia October, 1982CONTENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Foreward

Policy Statement

General Policies Pertaining to:

A. Restrictions in (Gifts or Bequests) from Uses of Gifts

1\. General Restrictions

2\. Restrictions Involving Student Financial Aid

B. Solicitation and Acceptance of Certain Types of Gifts

1\. Gifts of Tangible Personal Property

2\. Gifts of Real Property

3\. Gifts of Securities

C. Establishment of Funds for Certain Purposes

1\. Professorships

2\. Lectureships

3\. Scholarships

4\. Fellowships

5\. Prize Funds

6\. Book Funds

7\. Funds for Student Activities

8\. Funds for Buildings and Grounds

D. Bequests

1\. Unrestricted Bequests

2\. Restricted Bequests

3\. Suggested Language for Specific Purposes

a. Professorships

b. Scholarships or Fellowships

c. Teaching, Research or Lectureship Funds

d. Book Funds

E. Deferred and Other Estate-Related Gifts

APPENDIX A (Deed of Gift)

FOREWORD
--------

The following Policy Statement, approved by the Board of Visitors on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ has been prepared for the use and guidance of persons who are concerned with the solicitation and acceptance of gifts from private sources. This statement is in part a codification of previous understandings. Any earlier regulations in conflict with this Policy Statement have been rescinded and any exceptions or variations can be made only with the approval of the President (or) the Board of Visitors. and

For the purposes of this Policy Statement the term "gifts" refers exclusively to private gifts (even though such gifts are often termed "grants" by corporations and foundations). These gifts are outright contributions received from private sources in which no goods or services are expected, implied or forthcoming for the donor and in which no proprietary interests are to be retained by the donor.

The Office of University Development is responsible for maintaining and increasing strong private financial support for the University. It is staffed to advise and assist schools, departments, or University-related foundations in order to improve their success in securing greater private support through utilization of its services. The Vice President for Development and his staff are also available to consult with prospective donors or their representatives concerning gifts or bequests.

The Development Office is the general clearing house for all fund-raising activities throughout the University. It shall function as adviser to the President on matters relating to the solicitation and acceptance of private funds, and shall provide the President with information concerning prospects for major gifts from private sources. Since many alumni and friends, corporations and foundations, and other private charitable organizations have special relationships with the University, the Development Office has the responsibility of coordinating fund-raising efforts which involve these sources of support.

In addition, the Development Office is charged with the responsibility of reporting regularly to the Board of Visitors the total gifts and bequests from private sources made to the University either directly or through one of the University-related foundations.

Particular attention should be given to the opening statement of policy with regard to the coordination of fund-raising solicitations and the procedures for the receipt and acknowledgement of gifts to the University and to University-related foundations.

POLICY STATEMENT
----------------

The University is composed of the College of Arts and Sciences and the Schools of Architecture, Commerce, Education, Engineering and Applied Science, Graduate Arts and Sciences, Graduate Business, Law, Medicine, and Nursing. Private contributions to the University of Virginia may be for the general purposes of the University as a whole or for the specific use of the College, for one of the Schools, for an individual department, or for a particular facility, program, area of study, or organization.

The donor may direct that a contribution be expended in full during one or more years for current operating expenses, capital projects, or to establish a special endowment fund or added to general endowment funds. The use of the funds may be specified for purposes such as professorships, scholarships, books, teaching, research, etc.

Gifts for either current use or endowment purposes given directly to the University should be made payable to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia" and shall be received and expended or invested by the University.

Gifts for current or capital purposes may also be accepted for the University by University-related foundations according to their corporate purposes. Authorized University-related foundations include:

The Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, and the University of Virginia Fund

The Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

The Colgate Darden Graduate Business School Sponsors

The University of Virginia School of Education Foundation

The Virginia Engineering Foundation

The University of Virginia Law School Foundation

The McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

The University of Virginia Medical School Foundation

The University of Virginia Student Aid Foundation (Athletics)

No foundation can be established without the approval of the President and the Vice President for Development. Any proposals or plans for major fund raising from private sources should be discussed with the Vice President for Development before being undertaken. Any school, department, University-related foundation or other organization which seeks to initiate a new annual giving program or to conduct one or more special solicitations with a goal of $10,000 or more, therefore, must first consult with the Vice President for Development. Those which are conducting established annual giving programs need not clear these regular solicitations with the Development Office.

When a gift to the University is received, it must be reported promptly to the Office of Development for recording and acknowledgement, and for deposit to the proper account. A University Deposit/Receipt form may be used or a memo to the Development Office identifying the proper account for deposit. Whichever form is used, it must also be accompanied by any correspondence pertaining to the gift. Daily deposits are made to accounts by the Development Office and a daily transmittal form is sent to the Bursar's Office by the Office of Development with the gift amount and the account to which the gift was deposited.

All gifts transmitted to members of either the faculty or administration must be acknowledged to the donor by the appropriate Dean, Department Head or Administrative Officer. The President will acknowledge gifts to the University or to any University-related foundation, which he considers appropriate for such acknowledgement. Each University-related foundation, therefore, will consult with the Vice President for Development in order to establish an appropriate minimum size of gift for the President's acknowledgement to their donors.

A. General Policies Pertaining to Restrictions in Gifts or Bequests

1\. General Restrictions

Restrictions based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, or national origin are unacceptable in any gift to the University and should be unacceptable in any gift to a University-related foundation. Provided, however, the University may in some instances be willing to accept gifts which are consistent with the University's goal of achieving a diverse student body. Such gifts will be accepted only with the approval of the Vice President for Development and the Legal Adviser.

2\. Restrictions Involving Student Financial Aid

The following restrictions are unacceptable in gifts to the University for scholarships, or other financial University-related foundation for such purposes:

(a) Restrictions permitting designation of an individual recipient by the donor;

(b) Restrictions to relatives or descendants of the donor as recipients;

(c) Restrictions upon the future employment of the recipient;

(d) Restrictions by the donor on interest rates and conditions for repayment of loans. (Rates of interest or repayment requirements should be determined by the University policy and practice at the time of the loan.)

B. General Policies Pertaining to Solicitation and Acceptance of Certain Types of Gifts

1\. Gifts of Tangible Personal Property

An offer of a gift to the University of tangible personal property may be accepted initially and conditionally on behalf of the University by deans, director of libraries and museums, and other authorized officers. The receipt and acceptance of such tangible gifts with estimated value of $500 or more shall be reported to the Vice President for Development for confirmation and formal acceptance by the Board of Visitors. Such gifts must be accompanied by an executed Deed of Gift (see Appendix A).

Gifts to the University of tangible personal property such as paintings and other works of art, or furniture, or collections should not be accepted if made on the condition or expectation that the items will be permanently exhibited, or that the collections will be maintained and shown as such. Any gift offered with such a restriction or condition shall be reported to the Vice President for Development and may be accepted only by action of the Board of Visitors.

Unless otherwise agreed by the University, it may retain or sell a gift in kind with the proceeds received from the sale to be placed in a specific fund of the University as approved by the Board of Visitors.

The following are unacceptable restrictions or considerations in connection with gifts in kind:

(a) The acceptance of such gifts shall not involve significant additional expense for their present or future use, display, maintenance or administration.

(b) No financial or other burdensome obligation or expense is or will be directly or indirectly incurred by the University as a result thereof.

(c) Neither the University, nor its officers or employees may furnish valuations or appraisals to donors in connection with gifts in kind to the University of Virginia.

(d) Gifts of tangible personal property (such as books and paintings) will not be accepted if made on the condition, or understanding, or expectation that the items will be loaned back to the donor or persons designated by the donor for life or extended periods of time to be determined by the donor.

2\. Gifts of Real Property

(a) An offer of a gift of real estate shall be reported to the Vice President for Development and may be accepted only by the Board of Visitors, in accordance with any State of Virginia requirements.

(b) No financial or other burdensome obligation or expense shall be incurred directly or indirectly by the University as a result of a gift of real property, particularly where the donor wishes to retain a life estate for himself or others in the property. Expenses for maintenance and real estate taxes shall be borne by the donor where a life estate is retained in such property.

(c) Restrictions as to the ultimate sale of real property received as a gift will not be accepted by the University. On the other hand, designating a purpose within the University for a fund created by the assets received from a sale of such property is permissible.

3\. Gifts of Securities

Gifts of securities often involve complicated technical considerations and may have very special tax consequences to the donor. All gifts of securities to the University will be processed by the Development Office in cooperation with the Investment Office. The Investment Office has final responsibility for sale of securities.

C. General Policies Pertaining to the Establishment of Funds for Certain Purposes

It is the policy of the University to approve the establishment of funds for certain purposes upon the receipt of gifts or commitments which meet the prescribed requirements. Only the most popular types of funds and their funding requirements are described below. There are many other purposes for funds which offer a variety of gift opportunities. Each school or department may suggest special activities, programs, research, lectures, etc. which can be supported by varying amounts of funding.

If it is desired to restrict a gift or bequest to a specified purpose, it is advisable to provide a contingency clause so that those who administer the University's affairs in the future will be left free to make use of the funds in the best interests of the University under changed conditions. This can be accomplished by providing the statement:

"If, in the opinion of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, all or part of (this fund) (the income of this fund) cannot be usefully applied to the above purpose (or in the above manner), it may be used for any related purpose which in the opinion of the University will most nearly accomplish my wishes. However, the fund shall always be known as the (Name of Endowment Fund) on the books of the University."

Specific language for the establishment of funds for certain purposes by either gift or bequest is given in Section D below. It is recommended that purposes be described as broadly as possible, and that detailed limitations and restrictions be avoided. The Vice President for Development must be consulted before a detailed plan for a specified purpose is approved.

Named endowment funds are usually pooled for investment with the University's general endowment funds and the individual funds are credited with their pro rata share of the earnings at the annual rate as determined by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors. Certain endowed funds may be established by the University with a principal amount of no less than $10,000.

A named endowment fund may be established, however, even though the principal amount may not have reached the required minimum, if the donor will undertake a binding obligation to supplement the income of the fund with annual gifts sufficient to provide a total income which is equal to at least ten (10) percent of the principal required for the establishment of the endowment fund. The donor must also agree to complete the endowment within a reasonable period of time.

Any gift or bequest to the University of Virginia should be made payable to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public corporation, located in Charlottesville." This is the legal name of the corporate body.

A gift or bequest may specify that the funds are either unrestricted or restricted as to the purposes for which they may be used. Also the donor may designate that the funds either are to be added to endowment or are to be expendable, either currently or over a specified period of time.

If a gift or bequest for endowment is less than the minimum set by the University, it will be added to a general endowment fund that pertains to the donor's desired intent. If, however, the fund meets the stated minimum dollar requirement to establish a named endowment fund for that specific purpose, the principal and the income earned on that principal will be separately determined for each named endowment fund. Whenever agreeable to the donor who is establishing an endowment fund, the endowment agreement should include a clause stating that ten percent (10%) of the income generated each year by the fund will be merged with the principal of the fund and not be expendable.

1\. Professorships

A named endowed professorship may be established to supplement the available State support for salaries in a school or a field of study. Such an endowment fund may be established with gifts to total $200,000 where such a fund is submitted for matching under the Eminent Scholars Program or under an equivalent matching program. Gifts should total $400,000 if terms of the gift fail to qualify for matching or if matching funds are not available.

Junior level professorships or visiting professorships may be established with a minimum of $100,000 but without matching through the Eminent Scholars Program.

2\. Lectureships

A named endowment fund to provide a lecture program (i.e., one which may be used for the honorarium and expenses of a special guest lecturer) may be established with a fund of not less than $10,000.

3\. Scholarships

A named endowed scholarship may be established with a fund of not less than $25,000.

4\. Fellowships

A named endowed fellowship may be established with a fund of not less than $50,000.

5\. Prize Funds

A named financial award for outstanding accomplishment may be provided through the establishment of a prize fund with an endowment of not less than $10,000.

6\. Book Funds

The earnings from a named endowed book fund may be used for the purchase of books or other materials in a particular field or library and also may be used as specified by the donor for other expenses of the library. Such a fund may be established with an endowment of not less than $10,000.

7\. Funds for Student Activities

Gifts and funds shall be accepted for the support of recognized student activities only if such activities have the approval of the Vice President for Student Affairs and meet requirements stated as to minimum endowment ($10,000) or as annual awards to recipients.

8\. Funds for Physical Plant

Whenever a donor, in making a gift to the University for a building, wishes to have the building named for one whom he designates, it is the policy of the University to require that at least fifty-one percent of the announced private funding costs of the building be given by the donor. When gift opportunities are offered for parts of a building or for landscape features, the University may allow a donor to name such designated portions of the buildings or grounds by contributing the entire announced cost. In no case shall any agreement or understanding in this regard be reached without first obtaining approval of the Board of Visitors.

D. General Policies Pertaining to Bequests and Trusts

The general policies described in Section C pertain to both inter vivos gifts and bequests. Requests for information concerning bequest language and trust information should be directed to the Office of University Development. Unrestricted gifts and bequests inherently permit flexibility in the use of the funds but other gifts and bequests should be established with the provision of the contingency clause so as to permit the use of the funds in a manner which will most nearly satisfy the wishes of the donor in the event that the original purpose can no longer be accomplished. Should the amount of the gift or bequest be insufficient to satisfy the minimum requirements for the establishment of a named endowment as determined by the University, the gift or bequest shall be transferred to and merged with an already existing endowment fund whose purpose is in keeping with the desires of the donor.

1\. Unrestricted Gifts and Bequests

An unrestricted gift or bequest is of special value because of the freedom to use it wherever and however needed. An unrestricted gift or bequest intended for the general purposes of the University, one which the University is free to use either to establish an endowment fund or to expend in whole or in part as they deem best, might read simply:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $.......) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) for the general purposes of the University as the University may determine."

If the donor or testator wishes to assure that the principal will be used to establish an endowment fund and remain as such permanently with the earnings only to be expended, the trust or will might read as follows:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, located at Charlottesville (the sum of $.......) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) to establish the ......Fund, the earnings only to be used for the general purposes of the University as the University may determine."

2\. Restricted Bequests

Many donors understandably have special interests which they may desire to promote or support. Bequests for these restricted purposes may be expressed as follows:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $.......) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) for the benefit of the (College) (School) to be used for (the library) (for publications) (for research) (for scholarships) etc."

3\. Suggested Language for Specific Purposes

(a) Professorships

To establish a named professorship at the University of Virginia, either by an inter vivos gift or through a bequest, the following statement is suggested:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $.......) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) to establish the .....Fund. This Fund shall be added to the University's Eminent Scholars Endowment Fund and the income therefrom shall be used to attract and retain eminent scholars in the field of .....at the University through the establishment of the .....Professorship in the (College, School) of .....Such income, when applied to the salary of an Eminent Scholar, is to be matched by State appropriations when and if such funds are provided by the Commonwealth of Virginia for such purposes."

(b) Scholarships or Fellowships

The following form will create by bequest a named scholarship or fellowship endowment fund which will be efficient to administer:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $....) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) to establish the .....Fund, the earnings only from which shall be used for (scholarship) (fellowship) to students in the University of Virginia (College of Arts and Sciences) or (other school within the University). Awards from this fund are to be designated (....Scholarships) (....Fellowships). The earnings of this fund may be used each year, or if not so used, may be used in a subsequent year or years, or added to the principal of the fund as the University may determine."

(c) Teaching, Research or Lectureship Funds

Named endowment funds may be given for teaching, for research or for lectureships in specific areas. While it may be desired to refer to the academic area of the teaching or lectureship, or to the subject matter or field of research, provision should be made to permit discretionary use in a different academic area, subject or field:

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $......) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) to establish the ......(Fellowship) (Research Fund) (Lectureship). The earnings only from the fund may be used for the stipend and support of (a teaching fellow) (a research fellow) (for a research program in .....) (for the support of a member of the teaching staff with the rank of lecturer or a visiting professor in .....)."

(d) Book Funds

"I hereby give (give, devise and bequeath) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation located at Charlottesville (the sum of $.....) (all the rest, residue and remainder of my estate) (....percent of my residuary estate) to establish the .....Fund. The earnings only may be used for the purchase of books or other materials (in the field of .....) and for other purposes of the (University of Virginia Library) (the Law School Library) etc."

If the fund is restricted to a particular library or a particular field it would be desirable to permit alternative use in other fields at the discretion of the University Librarian.

E. General Policies Pertaining to Deferred and Other Estate-Related Gifts

The terms and conditions of gifts to create charitable remainder unitrusts, charitable remainder annuity trusts, charitable income ("lead") trusts, or charitable gift annuities, and the terms and conditions of gifts which are acceptable for a pooled income fund trust shall be accepted by the Vice President for Development in consultation with the Vice President for Business and Finance.

A pooled income fund gift or a charitable gift annuity provides the means whereby a donor, who does not wish to make a separately invested trust, can support the University and receive the benefits offered by a life income gift. The Board of Visitors has authorized the establishment of the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund. A gift to this Fund will be commingled with the gifts of others as in a mutual fund, and will be managed by a Trustee. The gift may be unrestricted or may be designated for a purpose specified by the donor.

The income from a gift to the Pooled Income Fund will be paid quarterly to the first beneficiary, and may also be paid either concurrently or successively to a second beneficiary, for his or her lifetime. The University may be named as a concurrent beneficiary, if the donor so designates. At the termination of the life income contract the share of the trust fund attributable to the donor's contribution is transferred to the University. If the donor so designates in writing at the time of the gift, either a concurrent income interest or the remainder interest may be transferred, in turn, to a tax exempt University related foundation.

APPENDIX A DEED OF GIFT
-----------------------

I, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, of (address) \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ hereby give, transfer, and deliver all of my right, title and interest in and to (description of gift):

With an appraised value of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (donor provides appraisal) to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a Virginia public corporation, of Charlottesville, Virginia.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed this Deed on the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_\_.

Grantor

Accepted and received this \_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

By: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
