---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1983'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1983) March 25, 1983
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 25, 1983

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 25, 1983
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:50 p.m., in Open Session on March 24, 1983, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., and Edgar N. Weaver present. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:10 p.m., in Open Session on March 25, 1983, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., and Edgar N. Weaver present. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 22, 1983, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

Rector Fred G. Pollard introduced the new Members of the Board, Mr. Henry A. Dudley and Dr. Edgar N. Weaver.

EXPRESSIONS OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRING VISITORS
------------------------------------------------

The Rector, speaking for the Board, expressed deep appreciation to two retiring Members of the Board for their services to the University. The retiring Visitors are Mr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., and Dr. Glenn B. Updike.

ELECTION OF JOHN S. BATTLE, JR. TO FILL VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

In compliance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, Mr. John S. Battle, Jr., was elected to fill the unexpired term of Dr. Glenn B. Updike on the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee consists of the following: Rector Fred G. Pollard, John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Dudley, Carl W. Smith, and E. Massie Valentine.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1983. The Committee assignments are as follows: FINANCE COMMITTEEMr. Carl W. Smith, ChairmanMr. John S. Battle, Jr.Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr.Mr. Henry A. DudleyMr. Neal O. Wade, Jr. STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEMr. William M. Dudley, ChairmanMr. William M. Camp, Jr.Mrs. George M. CochranMr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr.Mr. David N. MontagueMr. E. Massie Valentine HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEMr. David N. Montague, ChairmanMr. William M. Camp, Jr.Mr. William M. DudleyMr. William R. HarveyMr. James L. TrinkleDr. Edgar N. Weaver BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMr. Ferman W. Perry, ChairmanMr. John S. Battle, Jr.Mrs. George M. CochranMr. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr.Mr. James L. TrinkleMr. Neal O. Wade, Jr. EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEMr. E. Massie Valentine, ChairmanMr. Henry A. DudleyMr. William R. HarveyMr. Ferman W. PerryMr. Carl W. SmithDr. Edgar N. Weaver AUDIT COMMITTEEMr. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., ChairmanMr. David N. MontagueMr. James L. Trinkle

The Rector, Mr. Fred G. Pollard, is an ex officio member of all committees.

SCHEDULE OF MEETING DATES FOR 1984
----------------------------------

January 26, 27, and 28, 1984

Charlottesville

March 29, 30, and 31, 1984

Charlottesville

May 31, June 1, and 2, 1984

Charlottesville

October 4, 5, and 6, 1984

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following dates for the 1984 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: January 26, 27, and 28, 1984CharlottesvilleMarch 29, 30, and 31, 1984CharlottesvilleMay 31, June 1, and 2, 1984CharlottesvilleOctober 4, 5, and 6, 1984Charlottesville

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 33 of the Board meeting agenda for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 9 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (1) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 2 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (5) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 3 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:10 p.m., on March 25, 1983.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Christopher M. Asplin as Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Carolyn Bluestine as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Courtlandt D.B. Bryan as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. John A. Corrigan, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Peter T. Cummings as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Cornelis A. deKluyver as Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Terrence M. Dempsey as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period December 15, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Dr. Deborah K. Douglas as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective August 1, 1983.Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Acting Assistant Professor of South Asian Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Miss Carole A. Gassert as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. James D. Hunter as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John W. Kendrick as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Charles R. Kennedy, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Lynda M. Latta as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, at a salary of $8,500.Ms. Elizabeth A. Margutti as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period March 1, 1983 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Ian D. McFarlane as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Teena A. Minton as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Lewis J. Orphanos as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mrs. Sandra J. Picot as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Norman F. Ramsey as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Steven M. Sanders as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. Raymond V. Shingler as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 31, 1983.Mr. John M. Simms, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Eileen T. Somerville as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period January 1, 1983 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Charles Wright as Professor of English, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Tian-Chyi J. Yeh as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the named chairs as shown below:Mr. Robert S. Headen as Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Lockhart B. McGuire as Julian Ruffin Beckwith Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr as Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Floyd W. Windal as Visiting Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.(b) Re-election of ChairholdersDr. Brian P. Conway as Vernah Scott Moyston Professor of Ophthalmology, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Leon Krier as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Architecture, for the period December 1, 1982, through December 15, 1982.(c) Leave of Absence for ChairholdersMr. Verdel A. Kolve, Commonwealth Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, to accept a Senior Fellowship in the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, National Gallery of Art.Mr. Frederick C. Mosher, White Burkett Miller Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period January 1, 1983 through April 30, 1983, for educational research.(d) Change of Title of ChairholderMr. Robert H. Trent, from Arthur J. Morris Professor of Commerce to The Morris Plan Professor of Consumer Banking, effective September 1, 1982.(e) Retirement of ChairholdersMr. Robert Bierstedt, Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1983. Mr. Bierstedt had been a member of the faculty since 1972.Dr. William N. Thornton, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1946.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Commonwealth Professor and University Professor of Philosophy and Law, effective May 31, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1966.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Dieter G. Altenpohl as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Anthony M. Ames as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Frederick J. Antczak as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Amir H. Assadi as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas T. Baber as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period January 16, 1983 through May 31, 1985.Mr. Richard J. Becherer as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Robert F. Bedford as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Richard S. Benner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. William H. Bennett as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Harold W. Berk as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. David E. Bruns as Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Joseph J. Burge as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective September 16, 1983.Mr. Alan Cafruny as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Stephen J. Colucci as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Mary L. Cooper as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Kandioura Drame as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Charles M. Engel as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Maxim P. Engers as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey T. Frederick as Assistant Professor of Sociology, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Dr. Joseph A. Gascho as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Peter Germann as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mohammad R. Ghanoonparvar as Assistant Professor of Persian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Carol J. Gleit as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Jean Goeppinger as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. A. Douglas Hargrave as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Department of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. George H. Harrison, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Mark E. Hawley as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Erik L. Hewlett as Associate Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Eileen A. Hogan as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Thomas H. Howard as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Dennis Ting-Pong Hu as Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Lewis B. Johnson, Jr. as Research Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Julie A. Kaplan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Demetrios Kazakos as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James D. Kinney as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. William J. MacDonald as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Colin A. McLaurin as Research Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective February 1, 1983.Mr. J. Kendall Middaugh, II as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Barbara G. Murphy as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Anne Mustain as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Edward E. Oliphant as Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. James D. Oliver as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Ranajit Pal as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Randal L. Perry as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. S. Joe Poon as Assistant Professor of Physics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Paul F. Reynolds, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James G. Rice as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period January 16, 1984 through May 31, 1986.Mr. Armstead L. Robinson as Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Stuart A. Rosenberg as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Allan C. Roth as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. W. Michael Scheld as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Gary J. Shiflet as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Timothy M. Sigmon as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. M. Mitchell Smith as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Ronald C. Taylor as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. George B. Vaughan as Visiting Professor of Education, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Carroll W. Westfall as Associate Professor of Architectural History, School of Architecture, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe as Assistant Professor of Education, and Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. Bennett A. Alford from Assistant Professor of Radiology, and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, and Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Paul E. Allaire from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James H. Aylor from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David A. Badertscher from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Donald G. Baker from Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Gene D. Block from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Samuel E. Bodily from Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Joseph A. Bono from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. John B. Bunch from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. James R. Castle from Assistant Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Madeleine B. Chandler from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Robert L. Chevalier from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Julian W. Connolly from Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Michael J. Cronin from Assistant Professor of Physiology to Associate Professor of Physiology, for the period July 1, 1983 through October 31, 1985.Mr. Frederick H. Damon from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Marsha A. Dowell from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Paul W. Farris from Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Carl J. Friedman from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Mihai Gheorghiade from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/ Salem Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/ Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. John M. Gwin from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Ira W. Herbst from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Stephen Innes from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. William J. Kehoe from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Michele T. Laraia, from Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective February 16, 1983.Mr. Martin D. LeVan from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jen-Shih Lee from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Virginia K. Lee from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Thomas E. Leinbach from Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Myron S. Levey from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Lois E. Mansfield from Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Nathaniel F. G. Martin from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. W. Copley McLean from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Otolaryngology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Aaron L. Mills from Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. George A. Nowacek from Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, School of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, School of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. David M. O'Brien from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Edgar O. Olsen from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Brian Parshall from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Richard D. Pearson from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Phillip E. Pfeifer from Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Janis I. Reynolds from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Edwin W. Rubel from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology and Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Otolaryngology and Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Larry Sabato from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. John Shemo from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Paul B. Stephan, III from Assistant Professor of Law to Associate Professor of Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Bruce N. Stewart from Assistant Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Margaret M. Stickley from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Glenn E. Stoner from Associate Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Ronald P. Taylor from Associate Professor of Biochemistry to Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Maria-Michaela Thompson from Research Instructor in Physiology to Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. Terry T. Turner from Assistant Professor of Urology to Associate Professor of Urology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Alfred C. Weaver from Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, to Associate Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Chelsea C. White, III from Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Systems Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Nancy D. Williamson from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Michiko N. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages to Associate Professor of Oriental Languages, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. H. Richard Winn from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery and Assistant Professor of Physiology to Professor of Neurosurgery and Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Anthony Winner from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. J. Joe Yazel from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Olivier Zunz from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1983.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Burke D. Grandjean, Associate Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, for research and writing.Mr. Prabahan K. Kabir, Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to accept a Visiting Professorship at Harvard University.Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one month, effective March 1, 1983, to perform medical services as period of religious vocation.Mr. Michael Levenson, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for research.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil, Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Gilbert W. Roy, Associate Professor of Oriental Languages, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to accept a Fulbright Fellowship.Mr. Rafael Rubio, Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective February 1, 1983, for research assignment.Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, for research.Mr. S. Fred Singer, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to write a book.Mr. George Theodoridis, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period February 1, 1983 through May 31, 1983, for education work at the University of California at Berkeley.Mr. Jon D. Whitman, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to accept N.E.H. Fellowship.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Richard L. Atkinson, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Alan Cafruny from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period January 4, 1983 through May 31, 1983.Mr. Stephen J. Colucci from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1983 through May 31, 1985.Mr. Jay W. Fox from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective February 1, 1983.Mr. Jonathan Skinner from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 1, 1983 through May 31, 1985.Mr. H. Wayne Storey from Acting Assistant Professor of Italian to Assistant Professor of Italian, for the period December 17, 1982 through May 31, 1986.Mr. William M. Sutherland from Research Assistant Professor of Biology to Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for the period January 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Dr. Frederic B. Walker from Associate Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 1, 1983.Dr. Harold J. Wanebo from Professor of Surgery to Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French, effective May 31, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1963.Mr. Robert Bierstedt, Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1983. Mr. Bierstedt had been a member of the faculty since 1972.Ms. Virginia H. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1983. Ms. Edwards had been a member of the faculty since 1956.Mr. Lewis S. Feuer, University Professor of Sociology and Government, effective May 31, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1976.Dr. William N. Thornton, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1946.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Commonwealth Professor and University Professor of Philosophy and Law, effective May 31, 1983. He had been a member of the faculty since 1966.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French.Mr. Robert Bierstedt, Commonwealth Professor of Sociology.Mr. Lewis S. Feuer, University Professor of Sociology and Government.Dr. William N. Thornton, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Commonwealth Professor and University Professor of Philosophy and Law.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Roberto A. Auffant, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective January 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Mark L. Bennion, Jr., Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Leroy D. Chadwick, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, effective April 6, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas Fields, Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, effective January 15, 1983, to accept a position with the 98th Congress.Mr. William M. Frank, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Barbara A. Hawes, Clinical Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective April 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Ms. Carol G. Jenkins, Associate Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective March 1, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Henry S. Johnson, Jr., Visiting Associate Professor of Dentistry, effective December 17, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Russell M. Linden, Lecturer in Commerce, effective January 15, 1983, to transfer to the Institute of Government.Ms. Jean A. Linney, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Stanmore B. Marshall, Instructor in Commerce, effective January 15, 1983, to return to school to complete dissertation.Ms. Rosanna M. O'Neil, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective March 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. William W. Wells, Jr., Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, effective January 31, 1983, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr. as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Norman F. Ramsey as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Raymond V. Shingler as Director of Finance, University of Virginia Hospital, for three years, effective January 31, 1983.Mr. Edgar A. Starke, Jr., as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective June 1, 1983.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mrs. Marjorie H. Andrews as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Brian P. Conway as Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg as Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Edward A. Parrish as Chairman Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective June 1, 1983.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Director of University Athletic Programs, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Warren G. Stamp as Chairman of the Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Roy Wagner as Chairman, Department of Anthropology, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JULIAN RUFFIN BECKWITH PROFESSORSHIP IN MEDICINE
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Julian Ruffin Beckwith Professorship in Medicine. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ANDREW D. HART PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNAL MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Department of Internal Medicine a Chair to be known as the Andrew D. Hart Professorship in Internal Medicine, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. James L. Camp, Jr. (deceased February 1983) and to his son Dr. James L. Camp, III, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILLIAM F. O'DELL PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the McIntire School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the William F. O'Dell Professorship in Commerce, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Commerce Alumni and friends of William F. O'Dell who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE ALICE M. AND GUY A. WILSON PROFESSORSHIP
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science known as the Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professorship in Electrical Engineering be and it is hereby renamed the Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professorship in a phase of Engineering to be designated by the Provost.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF TORRENCE, DREELIN, FARTHING & BUFORD FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN FOR HEATING, VENTILATION, AND AIR CONDITIONING UPDATE AT THE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER FOR FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY CODE COMPLIANCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Torrence, Dreelin, Farthing & Buford of Richmond, Virginia, be approved for performance of engineering design for heating, ventilation, and air conditioning update at the University Medical Center for Fire and Life Safety Code Compliance.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF H. C. YU AND ASSOCIATES FOR PERFORMANCE OF ENGINEERING DESIGN WORK FOR RENOVATIONS FOR ENERGY CONSERVATION, PHASE III
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of H. C. Yu and Associates of Richmond, Virginia, be approved for performance of engineering design work for Renovations for Energy Conservation, Phase III.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF ROACHE, MERCER & FAISON, INC., FOR ENGINEERING PREPLANNING STUDY FOR THE RENOVATION OF MONROE HILL RESIDENCE HALLS AND RENOVATION OF MCCORMICK ROAD RESIDENCE HALLS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Roache, Mercer & Faison, Inc., of Richmond, Virginia, be approved for performance of an engineering preplanning study for the Renovation of Monroe Hill Residence Halls and Renovation of McCormick Road Residence Halls.

APPROVAL OF MMM DESIGN GROUP AS ENGINEERS FOR PREPLANNING STUDY FOR THE PRESERVATION OF LIBRARY RESOURCES FOR ALDERMAN LIBRARY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of MMM Design Group of Norfolk, Virginia, be approved for the performance of an engineering preplanning study for the Preservation of Library Resources for Alderman Library.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF H. C. YU AND ASSOCIATES FOR ENGINEERING PREPLANNING STUDY FOR THE RENOVATION OF FACILITIES TO CONSERVE ENERGY, PHASE IV
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of H. C. Yu and Associates of Richmond, Virginia, be approved for performance of an engineering preplanning study for the Renovation of Facilities to Conserve Energy, Phase IV.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF MASTER ENGINEERS AND DESIGNERS FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN FOR THE REPLACEMENT/REPAIR OF DOMESTIC HOT WATER DISTRIBUTION LINES AND HOT WATER HEATING DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Master Engineers and Designers of Richmond, Virginia, be approved for performance of engineering design for the Replacement/Repair of Domestic Hot Water Distribution Lines and Hot Water Heating Distribution System.

AUTHORIZATION FOR PURCHASE OF PROPERTY AT 231 - 12th STREET, S.W.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to buy the property known as 231 - 12th Street, S.W., parcel 109, at the price negotiated between the two appraisals, provided this purchase is approved by the Governor.

AUTHORIZATION FOR PURCHASE OF PROPERTY AT 229 - 12th STREET, S.W.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to buy the property known as 229 - 12th Street, S.W., parcel 110, at a price negotiated between the two appraisals, and if negotiation is not successful, the appropriate officers of the University be and they are authorized to institute condemnation proceedings, provided this purchase of condemnation is approved by the Governor.

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION TO ADD A NON-VOTING STUDENT TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that at its June meeting each year the Board of Visitors, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, may appoint, for a term of one year, a full time student at the University of Virginia as a non-voting member of the Board of Visitors. Such student member may attend and participate in a non-voting capacity in the deliberations and meetings of the Standing Committees of the Board as well as meetings of the Board itself; except, however, the student member shall not be entitled to attend executive sessions of either the Board or any of the committees of the Board. This resolution is subject to an appropriate amendment of the Board of Visitors' Manual at its June meeting.

DISCUSSION OF ACADEMIC ATTIRE FOR THE BOARD
-------------------------------------------

Mrs. Cochran expressed her disapproval of the capes worn by the Board over academic attire at public occasions. She objected to the appearance of the capes, and added that they make the wearer feel oppressively warm. The Rector objected to the appearance of the Rector's hat even when assured that our present Rector wears it well.

Following a discussion it was the sense of the meeting that the President will look into alternatives and will get cost estimates for these.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on a number of projects in the planning and construction phases. The report included a $13,615,000 housing project for 650 students which is in the construction stage.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 767,363.20

Free Service

$2,827,898.05

\--------------

Total

$3,595,261.25

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Bad Debts

28,039.26

Free Service

241,987.67

\--------------

Total

$270,026.93

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 464 through 469 for the months of December, 1982 and January, 1983, totaling $3,595,261.25, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 514 through 521 for the months of December 1982, and January 1983, totaling $270,026.93, consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$ 767,363.20Free Service$2,827,898.05--------------Total$3,595,261.25Blue Ridge Hospital:Bad Debts28,039.26Free Service241,987.67--------------Total$270,026.93 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING APPROVAL OF THE 1983 AMENDMENTS TO THE VIRGINIA PLAN FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN STATE-SUPPORTED INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, pursuant to Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia:

RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia will participate in the 1983 Amendments to the Virginia Plan for Equal Opportunity in State-Supported Institutions of Higher Education, with the understanding that the applicability of the Plan and its 1983 Amendments to the University of Virginia remain consistent with the interpretations contained in the Board of Visitors Resolution of April 1, 1978.

INCREASE IN APPLICATION FEES FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

Present

Fees Collected After July 1, 1983

Undergraduate

$ 20

$ 25

Graduate (except Law and Darden)

$ 10

$ 20

Law (including Graduate Law)

$ 20

$ 30

Darden (including DBA)

$ 20

$ 30

Medicine

$ 40

$ 40

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following schedule of application fees be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1983: PresentFees Collected After July 1, 1983Undergraduate$ 20$ 25Graduate (except Law and Darden)$ 10$ 20Law (including Graduate Law)$ 20$ 30Darden (including DBA)$ 20$ 30Medicine$ 40$ 40

INCREASE IN FEE FOR LATE PAYMENT OF TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee for late payment of tuition and required fees be established at $50.00 beginning with the Fall 1983 semester.

INCREASE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR 1983-1984
---------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS, E, O

$250

$10

4%

$260

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS, E, O

$280

$15

5%

$295

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS, E

$320

$15

5%

$335

0

Townhouses (10) 3 BR

WS, E

$360

$20

6%

$380

Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$200

$10

5%

$210

Apt. 2, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$225

$10

4%

$235

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$195

$10

5%

$205

Apt. 4, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$210

$10

5%

$220

Gildersleeve/Snowden

Monroe Lane:

1 Bedroom (16)

WS, G, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

2 Bedroom (1)

WS, G, E

$265

$15

6%

$280

Efficiency (2)

WS, G, E

$180

$10

6%

$190

Snowden:

Apt. 1 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Apt. 2 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Apt. 6 (Efficiency)

WS, G, E

$180

$10

6%

$190

Apt. 101 (3BR)

WS, G. E

$330

$15

5%

$345

Apt. 103 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$265

$15

6%

$280

Apt. 201 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Apt. 202 (1BR)

WS, G. E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Apt. 203 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$265

$15

6%

$280

Sundry

Vysotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$230

$10

4%

$240

E, O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Lower Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$230

$10

4%

$240

E

South Cottage (3BR)

WS

$120

$5

5%

$125

E, O

Little Morea (1BR)

WS, O, E

$190

$10

6%

$200

McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)

HP, E, WS

$160

$10

5%

$170

Farmhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)

\--

$110

$5

5%

$115

WS, E, C

2400 Stadium Road (3BR)

E

$300

$15

5%

$315

WS, G

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Montebello (3BR)

\--

$210

$10

5%

$220

WS, E, G

Upper Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$185

$10

5%

$195

Lower Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$185

$10

5%

$195

Big Morea (4BR)

WS, E, O

$210

$10

5%

$220

Sunnyside (4BR)

\--

$300

$15

5%

$315

WS, O, E

Monroe Hill House (2BR)

WS, HP

$165

$10

6%

$175

E

Carrs Hill Cottage (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$ 95

$5

5%

$100

Hotel D (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$180

$10

6%

$190

Cash House (3BR)

WS, E, O

$260

$15

6%

$275

Pavilions

Pavilion I

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion II

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion III

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion IV

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion V

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion V Annex

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion VI

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion IX

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Pavilion X (3BR)

WS, HP

$245

$15

6%

$260

E

Blue Ridge Properties

Bldg. 927 (4BR House)

WS

$275

$15

5%

$290

E, O

Bldg. 925 (2BR House)

WS, E

$225

$10

4%

$235

O

Bldg. 924 (2BR House)

WS, E

$225

$10

4%

$235

O

Bldg. 921 (3BR House)

WS, E, O

$250

$10

4%

$260

Bldg. 919 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$275

$15

5%

$290

Bldg. 916 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$275

$15

5%

$290

Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$180

$10

6%

$190

Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$180

$10

6%

$190

Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$10

6%

$175

Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$10

6%

$175

Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$10

6%

$175

Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$10

6%

$175

Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Bldg. 917 (2BR House)

HP, WS, E

$225

$10

4%

$235

Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$210

$10

5%

$220

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS, E

$225

$10

4%

$235

Garage Apt. (2BR)

WS, E, O

$270

$15

6%

$285

Faulkner Property

Holly House (2BR)

WS, E, O

$235

$10

4%

$245

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS, E, O

$105

$5

5%

$110

Hedge House (2BR)

WS

$165

$10

6%

$175

E, O

Orchard House (5SRMS)

WS, E, O

$105

$5

5%

$110

Carriage House (4BR)

WS

$ 95

\* \*Responsibility to manage facility as a rental unit is assigned to Residential Housing effective 7/1/83.

\*

$200

E, O

118 Oakhurst Circle

Upper (2BR)

WS, G

$235

$10

4%

$245

E

Lower (2BR)

WS, G

$260

$15

6%

$275

E

Valley Road Property

503 Valley Road (1BR)

\--

$180

$10

6%

$190

WS, E, G

409 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$220

$10

5%

$230

WS, E, O

411 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$220

$10

5%

$230

WS, E, G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$240

$10

4%

$250

Apt. 12 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$235

$15

6%

$250

Apt. 14 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$230

$10

4%

$240

Apt. 15 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$225

$15

7%

$240

Apt. 21 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$170

$15

9%

$185

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$175

$10

6%

$185

Apt. 23 (Eff.)

WS, E, O

$170

$5

3%

$175

Apt. 24 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$175

$5

3%

$180

Apt. 25 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$5

3%

$190

Apt. 26 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$10

5%

$190

Apt. 27 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$10

6%

$190

Apt. 28 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$175

$15

9%

$190

Apt. 31 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$10

5%

$195

Apt. 32 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$10

6%

$190

Apt. 33 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$205

$10

5%

$215

Apt. 34 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$205

$10

5%

$215

Apt. 35 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$200

$10

5%

$210

Apt. 36 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$200

$10

5%

$210

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 6 Double

HP, WS, E

$ 55

$ 3

6%

$ 58

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 12 Singles

HP, WS, E

$ 65

$ 5

8%

$ 70

Per Night

$ 10

$ 1

10%

$ 11

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Residential Housing rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1983: FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1982-83 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1983-84 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)WS, E, O$250$104%$2602 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS, E, O$280$155%$2953 Bedroom Houses (16)WS, E$320$155%$3350Townhouses (10) 3 BRWS, E$360$206%$380Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$200$105%$210Apt. 2, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$225$104%$235Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$195$105%$205Apt. 4, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$210$105%$220Gildersleeve/SnowdenMonroe Lane:1 Bedroom (16)WS, G, E$210$105%$2202 Bedroom (1)WS, G, E$265$156%$280Efficiency (2)WS, G, E$180$106%$190Snowden:Apt. 1 (1BR)WS, G, E$220$105%$230Apt. 2 (1BR)WS, G, E$220$105%$230Apt. 6 (Efficiency)WS, G, E$180$106%$190Apt. 101 (3BR)WS, G. E$330$155%$345Apt. 103 (2BR)WS, G, E$265$156%$280Apt. 201 (1BR)WS, G, E$220$105%$230Apt. 202 (1BR)WS, G. E$220$105%$230Apt. 203 (2BR)WS, G, E$265$156%$280SundryVysotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$230$104%$240E, OUpper Alden (3BR)WS, O$245$156%$260ELower Alden (3BR)WS, O$230$104%$240ESouth Cottage (3BR)WS$120$55%$125E, OLittle Morea (1BR)WS, O, E$190$106%$200McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)HP, E, WS$160$105%$170Farmhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)--$110$55%$115WS, E, C2400 Stadium Road (3BR)E$300$155%$315WS, G FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1982-83 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1983-84 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantMontebello (3BR)--$210$105%$220WS, E, GUpper Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$185$105%$195Lower Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$185$105%$195Big Morea (4BR)WS, E, O$210$105%$220Sunnyside (4BR)--$300$155%$315WS, O, EMonroe Hill House (2BR)WS, HP$165$106%$175ECarrs Hill Cottage (2BR)WS, E, HP$ 95$55%$100Hotel D (2BR)WS, E, HP$180$106%$190Cash House (3BR)WS, E, O$260$156%$275PavilionsPavilion IWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion IIWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion IIIWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion IVWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion VWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion V AnnexWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion VIWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion IXWS, HP$245$156%$260EPavilion X (3BR)WS, HP$245$156%$260EBlue Ridge PropertiesBldg. 927 (4BR House)WS$275$155%$290E, OBldg. 925 (2BR House)WS, E$225$104%$235OBldg. 924 (2BR House)WS, E$225$104%$235OBldg. 921 (3BR House)WS, E, O$250$104%$260Bldg. 919 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$275$155%$290Bldg. 916 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$275$155%$290Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$180$106%$190Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$180$106%$190Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$106%$175Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$106%$175Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$106%$175Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$106%$175Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220Bldg. 917 (2BR House)HP, WS, E$225$104%$235Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)HP, WS, E$210$105%$220 FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1982-83 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1983-84 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS, E$225$104%$235Garage Apt. (2BR)WS, E, O$270$156%$285Faulkner PropertyHolly House (2BR)WS, E, O$235$104%$245Holly House Lower (1RM)WS, E, O$105$55%$110Hedge House (2BR)WS$165$106%$175E, OOrchard House (5SRMS)WS, E, O$105$55%$110Carriage House (4BR)WS$ 95\* \*Responsibility to manage facility as a rental unit is assigned to Residential Housing effective 7/1/83. \*$200E, O118 Oakhurst CircleUpper (2BR)WS, G$235$104%$245ELower (2BR)WS, G$260$156%$275EValley Road Property503 Valley Road (1BR)--$180$106%$190WS, E, G409 Valley Road (2BR)--$220$105%$230WS, E, O411 Valley Road (2BR)--$220$105%$230WS, E, GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11 (2BR)WS, E, O$240$104%$250Apt. 12 (2BR)WS, E, O$235$156%$250Apt. 14 (2BR)WS, E, O$230$104%$240Apt. 15 (2BR)WS, E, O$225$157%$240Apt. 21 (1BR)WS, E, O$170$159%$185Apt. 22 (1BR)WS, E, O$175$106%$185Apt. 23 (Eff.)WS, E, O$170$53%$175Apt. 24 (1BR)WS, E, O$175$53%$180Apt. 25 (1BR)WS, E, O$185$53%$190Apt. 26 (1BR)WS, E, O$180$105%$190Apt. 27 (1BR)WS, E, O$180$106%$190Apt. 28 (1BR)WS, E, O$175$159%$190Apt. 31 (1BR)WS, E, O$185$105%$195Apt. 32 (1BR)WS, E, O$180$106%$190Apt. 33 (2BR)WS, E, O$205$105%$215Apt. 34 (2BR)WS, E, O$205$105%$215Apt. 35 (2BR)WS, E, O$200$105%$210Apt. 36 (2BR)WS, E, O$200$105%$210 FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1982-83 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1983-84 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 6 DoubleHP, WS, E$ 55$ 36%$ 58Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 12 SinglesHP, WS, E$ 65$ 58%$ 70Per Night$ 10$ 110%$ 11

Responsibility to manage facility as a rental unit is assigned to Residential Housing effective 7/1/83.

INCREASE IN CONTRACT RATES FOR FOOD SERVICE, 1983-1984
------------------------------------------------------

Food Service Contract

Actual 1982-83

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983-84

7-Day (19 meals)

$1,220

$ 58

4.8%

$1,278

12-Meals per week

$1,020

$ 58

5.7%

$1,078

Flex (15 meals)

$1,160

$ 58

5.0%

$1,218

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for food services be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1983-1984: Food Service ContractActual 1982-83Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983-847-Day (19 meals)$1,220$ 584.8%$1,27812-Meals per week$1,020$ 585.7%$1,078Flex (15 meals)$1,160$ 585.0%$1,218

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 82-83

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 83-84

Actual 82-83

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 83-84

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time

$1,334

$236

17.7%

$1,570

$3,260

$490

15.0%

$3,750

Medical Technology

860

50

5.8%

910

860

50

5.8%

910

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus.-MBA

2,550

370

14.5%

2,920

5,450

610

11.2%

6,060

Law - JD

2,050

360

17.6%

2,410

4,550

550

12.1%

5,100

Medicine - MD

3,910

470

12.0%

4,380

8,110

710

8.8%

8,820

Other Charges

Student Act. Fee

16

\-

\-

16

16

\-

\-

16

Architecture - Act. Fee

7

\-

\-

7

7

\-

\-

7

Commerce-Act. Fee

5

\-

\-

5

5

\-

\-

5

Education - Act. Fee

2

\-

\-

2

2

\-

\-

2

Engineering - Act. Fee

4

\-

\-

4

4

\-

\-

4

Law School - Act. Fee

22

\-

\-

22

22

\-

\-

22

Medicine - Act. Fee

20

\-

\-

20

20

\-

\-

20

Nursing - Act. Fee

20

\-10

\-50.0%

10

20

\-10

\-50.0%

10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1983: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 82-83Amt IncPercent of IncProp 83-84Actual 82-83Amt IncPercent of IncProp 83-84Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time$1,334$23617.7%$1,570$3,260$49015.0%$3,750Medical Technology860505.8%910860505.8%910Professional SchoolsGraduate Bus.-MBA2,55037014.5%2,9205,45061011.2%6,060Law - JD2,05036017.6%2,4104,55055012.1%5,100Medicine - MD3,91047012.0%4,3808,1107108.8%8,820Other ChargesStudent Act. Fee16--1616--16Architecture - Act. Fee7--77--7Commerce-Act. Fee5--55--5Education - Act. Fee2--22--2Engineering - Act. Fee4--44--4Law School - Act. Fee22--2222--22Medicine - Act. Fee20--2020--20Nursing - Act. Fee20-10-50.0%1020-10-50.0%10

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current 1982-83

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983-84

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 40.00

$10.00

25.0%

$50.00

Graduate Per Semester Hour

44.00

6.00

13.6%

50.00

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour

50.00

10.00

20.0%

60.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Change of Status Fee

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Transcript Fee

2.00

\-

\-

2.00

Late Exam Fee

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.

Other contracted course rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following charges for the Division of Continuing Education shall supersede all previous schedules, effective for the 1983-84 Session, and they are hereby approved: Current 1982-83Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983-84Undergraduate Per Semester Hour$ 40.00$10.0025.0%$50.00Graduate Per Semester Hour44.006.0013.6%50.00Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour50.0010.0020.0%60.00Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs10.00--10.00Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only5.00--5.00Change of Status Fee5.00--5.00Transcript Fee2.00--2.00Late Exam Fee5.00--5.00TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration10.00--10.00Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.Other contracted course rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1982-83

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1983-84

Actual 1982-83

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1983-84

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$1,064

$40

3.8%

$1,104

$1,568

$112

7.1%

$1,680

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

$ 36

$ -

\-

$ 36

$ 57

$ 3

5.3%

$ 60

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$ 36

$ -

\-

$ 36

$ 57

$ 3

5.3%

$ 60

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$ 12

$ -

\-

$ 12

$ 18

$ 2

11.1%

$ 20

Dormitory Rent

$600

$ 40

6.7%

$ 640

$ 600

$ 40

6.7%

$ 640

Other Fees

Application Fee

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1983: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1982-83Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1983-84Actual 1982-83Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1983-84Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$1,064$403.8%$1,104$1,568$1127.1%$1,680Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour$ 36$ --$ 36$ 57$ 35.3%$ 60Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$ 36$ --$ 36$ 57$ 35.3%$ 60Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$ 12$ --$ 12$ 18$ 211.1%$ 20Dormitory Rent$600$ 406.7%$ 640$ 600$ 406.7%$ 640Other FeesApplication Fee$ 15--$ 15$ 15--$ 15Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour$ 75--$ 75$ 75--$ 75The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES
---------------------------

Actual 1982-83

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1983-84

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ -0-

\--

$ 15.00

University Transit

43.00

2.00

4.7%

45.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area

25.00

\-0-

\--

25.00

Fringe Benefits

105.00

\-0-

\--

105.00

Athletics

60.00

\-0-

\--

60.00

Student Health

110.00

8.00

7.3%

118.00

University Union

24.00

\-0-

\--

24.00

University Union Programs

10.00

\-0-

\--

10.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\-0-

\--

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

12.00

\-0-

\--

12.00

TOTAL

$408.00

$ 10.00

2.5%

$418.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be and it is hereby established, effective July 1, 1983, in the amount of 418;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the fee component be allocated for the 1983-84 Session as follows: Actual 1982-83Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1983-84Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall$ 15.00$ -0---$ 15.00University Transit43.002.004.7%45.00Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area25.00-0---25.00Fringe Benefits105.00-0---105.00Athletics60.00-0---60.00Student Health110.008.007.3%118.00University Union24.00-0---24.00University Union Programs10.00-0---10.00Class Affiliation4.00-0---4.00Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities12.00-0---12.00TOTAL$408.00$ 10.002.5%$418.00

INCREASE IN CLINICAL FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS: SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale 1982-83

Proposed Scale 1983-84

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Professor and Department Head

$48,700

$121,900

$51,100

$134,100

Professor and Division Head

46,400

109,400

48,700

120,300

Professor

42,300

105,700

44,400

116,300

Associate Professor and Division Head

40,600

99,400

42,600

109,300

Associate Professor

36,600

94,900

38,400

104,400

Assistant Professor

30,900

84,900

32,400

93,400

Instructor

26,900

70,300

28,200

77,300

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1983: RankCurrent Scale 1982-83Proposed Scale 1983-84State MaximumCeilingsState MaximumCeilingsProfessor and Department Head$48,700$121,900$51,100$134,100Professor and Division Head46,400109,40048,700120,300Professor42,300105,70044,400116,300Associate Professor and Division Head40,60099,40042,600109,300Associate Professor36,60094,90038,400104,400Assistant Professor30,90084,90032,40093,400Instructor26,90070,30028,20077,300

INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------------

1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1983-84 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Maximum Compensation (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

General Faculty

Professor

$26,200

$27,600

\-

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

21,600

22,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

17,600

18,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

12,400

13,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Department Head

$34,800

$36,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Professor

30,400

32,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

25,200

26,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

20,200

21,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

15,800

16,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant

$11,800

$12,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

15,400

13,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Research Associate

\-

16,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant

15,400

15,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist/Eng A

$18,200

$19,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng B

21,200

22,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng C

24,600

25,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng A

23,600

24,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Director A

27,000

28,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng B

27,000

28,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Director B

37,200

39,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist/Eng

37,200

39,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng C

28,200

29,600

\-

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plans applicable to the teaching and research staff in the University Division be and they are hereby approved, effective July 1, 1983: 1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated. 1983-84 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Maximum Compensation (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalGeneral FacultyProfessor$26,200$27,600-(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor21,60022,600-(2)1 yearAssistant Professor17,60018,400-(2)1 yearInstructor12,40013,000-(2)1 yearPre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis. Department Head$34,800$36,600-(2)1 yearProfessor30,40032,000-(2)1 yearAssociate Professor25,20026,400-(2)1 yearAssistant Professor20,20021,200-(2)1 yearInstructor15,80016,600-(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Assistant$11,800$12,800-(2)1 yearResearch Associate15,40013,400-(2)1 yearSenior Research Associate-16,200-(2)1 yearSenior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant15,40015,400-(2)1 yearSponsored Programs (3)Research Scientist/Eng A$18,200$19,200-(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng B21,20022,200-(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng C24,60025,800-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng A23,60024,800-(2)1 yearResearch Director A27,00028,400-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng B27,00028,400-(2)1 yearResearch Director B37,20039,000-(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist/Eng37,20039,000-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng C28,20029,600-(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on an annual (12 month) basis.

Proposed 1983-84

Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$28,000

$29,400

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$22,500

$23,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$18,000

$19,000

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$16,000

$16,800

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff in the Division of Continuing Education be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1983: Rank1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on an annual (12 month) basis. Proposed 1983-84Normal Entrance RateNormal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$28,000$29,400(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$22,500$23,600(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$18,000$19,000(2)1 yearInstructor$16,000$16,800(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on an annual (12 month) basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1983-84

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$20,400

$21,400

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$17,600

$18,500

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$14,600

$15,300

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$11,600

$12,200

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1983: Rank1982-83 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1983-84Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$20,400$21,400(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$17,600$18,500(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$14,600$15,300(2)1 yearInstructor$11,600$12,200(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President announced private gifts were received during the period December 10, 1982 through February 28, 1983, in the amount of $2,758,700. Sponsored programs (non government) during this period were valued at $649,800. During the period January 1, 1983 through February 28, 1983, there were restricted grants and contracts valued at $6,956,758. The Board of Visitors voted to accept these gifts, grants, and contracts.

REPORT ON THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
------------------------------

The President reported that the Capital Campaign is moving forward. Sixty-eight million dollars in gifts and pledges have been received. He said that in some areas we are ahead of our goals, in other areas we are behind. Gifts for "bricks and mortar" have been coming in very slowly.

The President noted that as we enter the area campaigns that the fund raising effort becomes more difficult, and that much work must be done to reach our final objective.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR ATHLETIC OFFICES, MEETING ROOMS, AND IMPROVED PRACTICE FACILITY (PRE-PLANNING) AND OBSERVATORY HILL DINING FACILITY RENOVATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the following resolution was adopted by the Executive Committee, acting for the Board, pursuant to Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia: RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors that the following architectural firms be and they are hereby approved:A. For Athletic Offices, Meeting Rooms, and Improved Practice Facility (preplanning) the firm of Kamstra, Dickerson and Associates, Inc. (Reston, Virginia)B. Observatory Hill Dining Facility Renovation the firm of Marcellus, Wright, Cox and Smith (Richmond, Virginia).

APPROVAL OF THE SMS SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONTRACT FOR THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMBACKGROUND LEADING TO SMS SYSTEMS CORPORATION CONTRACT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Purchase Cost of Computer Hardware

$ 227,168

Delivery and Installation Costs (approx)

325,000

Costs for Shared Services and Maintenance (approx)

60,000/month

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the contract with SMS Systems Corporation for development and implementation of the University of Virginia Hospitals Financial Management System as described on the following page be and it is hereby approved:

The contract with SMS Systems Corporation for a Financial Management System represents a concrete commitment of funds and other resources to a plan that has been in formulation over the past five years. With the execution of this contract, the University of Virginia Hospitals will take a significant step toward the implementation of a total Hospital Information System (HIS) to upgrade and expand the application of computer technology to meet current and growing financial, statistical, health care and reporting requirements.

The HIS planning effort began in 1978 when Price Waterhouse and Company recommended improvements in information gathering, control and reporting. Further recommendations by the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission (JLARC) to the 1979 Virginia General Assembly reinforced the need for information systems, especially in the financial areas of the UVa Hospitals.

During the next two years, detailed information system requirements were developed by all major areas of the Hospitals, and on August 17, 1981, a Request for Proposal for a Hospital Information System for the University of Virginia Hospitals was released to vendors. Six major HIS vendors responded in October, and proposal evaluation and vendor selection was concluded in October, 1982. SMS Systems Corporation was selected to provide the financial and statistical subsystems, and Technicon Data Systems Corporation was selected to provide the health care subsystems of the HIS. During 1982, The State Health Commissioner granted the Certificate of Public Need and the Department of Management Analysis and Systems Development approved the Agency Procurement Request submitted for the Hospital Information System, which, over its seven-year life span is expected to cost approximately $12.5 million.

The SMS Systems Corporation contract provides comprehensive computer systems in the following areas:

Census/Inpatient Billing

Accounts Receivable/Bad Debts

Outpatient Billing

General Ledger

Accounts Payable

Inventory

Payroll/Personnel

Fixed Assets

The contract specifies costs for these systems as follows: Purchase Cost of Computer Hardware$ 227,168Delivery and Installation Costs (approx)325,000Costs for Shared Services and Maintenance (approx)60,000/month

Immediate and substantial revenue and informational benefits are exted with the July 1, 1983 implementation of the SMS Systems Corporation Financial Management System.

APPROVAL OF THE PARTICIPATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA IN THE VIRGINIA HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS BOND ACT OF 1983 FOR THE STUDENT UNION AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE ADDITION TO NEWCOMB HALL, AND HOUSING FOR APPROXIMATELY 300 STUDENTS IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $10,358,542
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1982 and the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1983, which Acts have been enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia of 1983, the Treasury Board was authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $92,418,000 for the purpose of providing funds, with any other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, and equipping revenue producing capital projects, including the enlarging and improving thereof, at institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 (c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia; andWHEREAS, said revenue producing capital projects include a Student Union at Clinch Valley College (the "Student Union Project"), addition to Newcomb Hall (the "Newcomb Hall Project") and Student Housing for approximately 300 students (the "Student Housing Project") for the University of Virginia at costs now estimated to be $1,170,000, $4,188,542 and $5,000,000 respectively; andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board proposes to sell a portion of the above bonds to be designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1983 Series D" (the "1983 Series D Bonds"), which will include an amount equal to $585,000 for the purpose of financing a portion of the cost of the Student Union Project; andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board proposes to sell a portion of the above bonds to be designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1983 Series E" (the "1983 Series E Bonds"), in the principal amount of $7,800,000 for the purpose of financing a portion of the costs of the Newcomb Hall Project and the Student Housing Project;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect student building fees and rental space fees for or in connection with the Student Union Project and revenues from the food service facilities, game room and bookstore located in the Student Union Project, and (b) pledges said fees and revenues to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series D Bonds issued to finance the Student Union Project; provided that the current expenses of operating the Student Union Project, including the food service facilities, game room and bookstore (the "Student Union Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such fees and revenues. The University further covenants that such fees and revenues will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from or for the use or otherwise received on behalf of the Student Union Project after payment of the Student Union Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series D Bonds issued to finance the Student Union Project, as and when the same become due. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of the Student Union Current Expenses and the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series D Bonds issued to finance the Student Union Project when due may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibit A hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from or on behalf of the Student Union Project pledged above will be sufficient to pay the Student Union Current Expenses and the principal of, premium if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series D Bonds issued to finance the Student Union Project, as the same become due, so long as the average interest rate on the 1983 Series D Bonds does not exceed 8.5 per annum.Section 3. The University covenants that so long as the 1983 Series D Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series D Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the Student Union Project.Section 4. The University (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect student building fees and rental space fees for or in connection with the Newcomb Hall Project and revenues from the food service facilities, game room and bookstore located in the Newcomb Hall Project, and (b) pledges said fees and revenues to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Newcomb Hall Project; provided that the current expenses of operating the Newcomb Hall Project, including the food service facilities, game room and bookstore (the "Newcomb Hall Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such fees and revenues. The University further covenants that such fees and revenues will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from or for the use or otherwise received on behalf of the Newcomb Hall Project, after payment of the Newcomb Hall Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest (exclusive of construction period interest included in the proceeds of the 1983 Series E Bonds) on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Newcomb Hall Project, as and when the same become due. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of the Newcomb Hall Current Expenses and the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and such interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Newcomb Hall Project when due may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 5. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibit B hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from or on behalf of the Newcomb Hall Project pledged above will be sufficient, together with construction period interest included in the proceeds of the 1983 Series E Bonds, to pay the Newcomb Hall Current Expenses and the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Newcomb Hall Project, as the same become due, so long as the average interest rate on the 1983 Series E Bonds does not exceed 8.5% per annum.Section 6. The University (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rents from all of its state owned housing (including, without limitation, the Student Housing Project), and (b) pledges said rents to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Student Housing Project; provided that the current expenses of operating all of the University's state owned housing (the "Housing Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such rents. The University further covenants that such rents will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from or for the use or otherwise received on behalf of the University's state owned housing (including the Student Housing Project), after payment of the Housing Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest (exclusive of construction period interest included in the proceeds of the 1983 Series E Bonds) on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Student Housing Project, as and when the same become due. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of the Housing Current Expenses and the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and such interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Student Housing Project when due may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 7. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibit C hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from or on behalf of the University's state owned housing (including the Student Housing Project) pledged above will be sufficient, together with construction period interest included in the proceeds of the 1983 Series E Bonds, to pay the Housing Current Expenses, any other debt service presently secured by or payable from such revenues, and the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1983 Series E Bonds issued to finance the Student Housing Project, as the same become due, so long as the average interest rate on the 1983 Series E Bonds does not exceed 8.5% per annum.Section 8. The University covenants that so long as the 1983 Series E Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest on the 1983 Series E Bonds.Section 9. The University covenants that it will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the 1983 Series D Bonds and the 1983 Series E Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the 1983 Series D Bonds and the 1983 Series E Bonds all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Garrett W. Sheldon as Assistant Professor of Political Science, Clinch Valley College, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m.

RCB:jb

Exhibit A CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Feasibility Study for Student Union Building Prepared by the University Budget Office in conjunction with Clinch Valley College of The University of Virginia March 10, 1983CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA STUDENT UNION BUILDING PROJECT DESCRIPTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clinch Valley has constructed a new Student Union Building at a cost of $1,170,000. Of this amount $585,000 will be financed by a bond issue. We would like for this building to be included in a 9c revenue bond issue for permanent financing.

Payment of the debt will be from revenues for profit on sales and student building fees less expenditures for operation of the building. The building fees will consist of $120 which will be charged to each full-time equivalent (FTE) regular session student and $15 which will be charged to each summer session student. In calculating the debt payment schedule, we used 8.50% as our interest rate and extended the payment over 20 years. This resulted in coverage of approximately 110%.

Student Union Building Estimated Net Revenue Available for Debt Service for $585,000 General Obligation Bonds
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1983-84 thru 1996-97

1997-98 thru 1999-2000

2000-2001 thru 2002-2003

Estimated Revenues:

Game Room

12,000

12,000

12,000

\*Student Building Fee

120,300

121,500

122,700

Total Estimated Revenue

132,300

133,500

134,700

Estimated Operating Expenses:

Salaries and Wages

9,000

9,000

9,000

Heat, Light, Power, Water, Sewer

36,800

36,800

36,800

Insurance and Retirement

4,000

4,000

4,000

Routine Maintenance Charged Direct

4,000

4,000

4,000

Allocation Portion of Physical Plant Cost

1,200

1,200

1,200

Total Estimated Operating Expenses

55,000

55,000

55,000

ESTIMATED NET REVENUE

77,300

78,500

79,700

\* Student Building Fee (Regular students X 120 + summer session headcount X $15)

(950 X 120 + 420 X 15)

(960 X 120 + 420 X 15)

(970 X 120 + 420 X 15)

1983-84 thru 1996-971997-98 thru 1999-20002000-2001 thru 2002-2003Estimated Revenues:Game Room12,00012,00012,000\*Student Building Fee120,300121,500122,700Total Estimated Revenue132,300133,500134,700Estimated Operating Expenses:Salaries and Wages9,0009,0009,000Heat, Light, Power, Water, Sewer36,80036,80036,800Insurance and Retirement4,0004,0004,000Routine Maintenance Charged Direct4,0004,0004,000Allocation Portion of Physical Plant Cost1,2001,2001,200Total Estimated Operating Expenses55,00055,00055,000ESTIMATED NET REVENUE77,30078,50079,700\* Student Building Fee (Regular students X 120 + summer session headcount X $15)(950 X 120 + 420 X 15)(960 X 120 + 420 X 15)(970 X 120 + 420 X 15)

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE CVC - STUDENT UNION BUILDING INTEREST RATE 8.5 %
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

YEAR

REMAINING PRINCIPAL

PRINCIPAL PAYMENT

INTEREST PAYMENT

TOTAL DEBT SERV PAYT

REVENUE

COVERAGE

585,000.00

1983

575,000.00

10,000.00

49,725.00

59,725.00

70,000.00

1.17

1984

560,000.00

15,000.00

48,875.00

63,875.00

70,000.00

1.10

1985

545,000.00

15,000.00

47,600.00

62,600.00

70,000.00

1.12

1986

530,000.00

15,000.00

46,325.00

61,325.00

70,000.00

1.14

1987

515,000.00

15,000.00

45,050.00

60,050.00

70,000.00

1.17

1988

495,000.00

20,000.00

43,775.00

63,775.00

70,000.00

1.10

1989

475,000.00

20,000.00

42,075.00

62,075.00

70,000.00

1.13

1990

455,000.00

20,000.00

40,375.00

60,375.00

70,000.00

1.16

1991

430,000.00

25,000.00

38,675.00

63,675.00

70,000.00

1.10

1992

405,000.00

25,000.00

36,550.00

61,550.00

70,000.00

1.14

1993

380,000.00

25,000.00

34,425.00

59,425.00

70,000.00

1.18

1994

350,000.00

30,000.00

32,300.00

62,300.00

70,000.00

1.12

1995

320,000.00

30,000.00

29,750.00

59,750.00

70,000.00

1.17

1996

285,000.00

35,000.00

27,200.00

62,200.00

70,000.00

1.13

1997

245,000.00

40,000.00

24,225.00

64,225.00

70,000.00

1.09

1998

205,000.00

40,000.00

20,825.00

60,825.00

70,000.00

1.15

1999

160,000.00

45,000.00

17,425.00

62,425.00

70,000.00

1.12

2000

110,000.00

50,000.00

13,600.00

63,600.00

70,000.00

1.10

2001

60,000.00

50,000.00

9,350.00

59,350.00

70,000.00

1.18

2002

0.00

60,000.00

5,100.00

65,100.00

70,000.00

1.08

\-----------

\-----------

\-----------

TOTAL

585,000.00

653,225.00

1,238,225.00

YEARREMAINING PRINCIPALPRINCIPAL PAYMENTINTEREST PAYMENTTOTAL DEBT SERV PAYTREVENUECOVERAGE585,000.001983575,000.0010,000.0049,725.0059,725.0070,000.001.171984560,000.0015,000.0048,875.0063,875.0070,000.001.101985545,000.0015,000.0047,600.0062,600.0070,000.001.121986530,000.0015,000.0046,325.0061,325.0070,000.001.141987515,000.0015,000.0045,050.0060,050.0070,000.001.171988495,000.0020,000.0043,775.0063,775.0070,000.001.101989475,000.0020,000.0042,075.0062,075.0070,000.001.131990455,000.0020,000.0040,375.0060,375.0070,000.001.161991430,000.0025,000.0038,675.0063,675.0070,000.001.101992405,000.0025,000.0036,550.0061,550.0070,000.001.141993380,000.0025,000.0034,425.0059,425.0070,000.001.181994350,000.0030,000.0032,300.0062,300.0070,000.001.121995320,000.0030,000.0029,750.0059,750.0070,000.001.171996285,000.0035,000.0027,200.0062,200.0070,000.001.131997245,000.0040,000.0024,225.0064,225.0070,000.001.091998205,000.0040,000.0020,825.0060,825.0070,000.001.151999160,000.0045,000.0017,425.0062,425.0070,000.001.122000110,000.0050,000.0013,600.0063,600.0070,000.001.10200160,000.0050,000.009,350.0059,350.0070,000.001.1820020.0060,000.005,100.0065,100.0070,000.001.08---------------------------------TOTAL585,000.00653,225.001,238,225.00

Exhibit B UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Feasibility Study for Addition to Newcomb Hall Prepared by the University Budget Office in conjunction with the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Director of Business and Auxiliary Services University of Virginia March 10, 1983UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Addition to Newcomb Hall Project Description
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The University is planning construction of an addition to Newcomb Hall, the primary student activity building. Phase I was completed in the spring of 1982. Phase II is to be completed in February, 1984. The total project is estimated to cost approximately $4,188,542 of which $2,800,000 is to be paid through the issue of revenue bonds. We would like the project to be included in a revenue bond issue for permanent financing.

The addition will include space for an enlarged bookstore, student organizations, meeting rooms, game rooms, food service facilities, a coffee shop, an ice cream parlor, a theater, Pavilion XI (an entertainment facility), and lounge areas for student use. The current facility no longer meets the cultural needs of students because of the substantial growth in enrollment in recent years. The new facility will provide a central location which will serve as a focal point for student programs and activities outside of the classroom.

Payment of the debt will be from rental of space and a student fee to be assessed to each full time equivalent regular session student in the amount of $20 per session. The Bookstore, Food Services, and the game room are estimated to provide $177,000-$195,000 annually in rent and income for retirement of the debt. In calculating the debt payment schedules, we used 8.5% as our interest rate and extended the payment over 20 years. This resulted in coverage of approximately 110%.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Addition to Newcomb Hall Estimated Net Revenue Available for Debt Service for $2,800,000 Revenue Bonds
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1983-84

1984-85 thru 1989-90

1990-91 thru 2000-01

Estimated Revenues

Bookstore Rent

105,000

110,000

110,000

Food Service Rent

65,000

70,000

70,000

Game Room - Net Proceeds

14,000

14,000

15,000

Student Fees @ $20\*

317,260

317,260

317,260

Total Estimated Revenues

501,260

511,260

512,260

Estimated Expenditures

Contractual Services (Utilities, etc.)

55,000

55,000

55,000

Maintenance Services

7,000

7,000

7,000

Supplies

25,000

25,000

25,000

Administration (inc. allocated)

18,000

18,000

18,000

Other

26,000

26,000

26,000

Total Estimated Expenditures

131,000

131,000

131,000

ESTIMATED NET REVENUE

370,260

380,260

381,260

\* Regular Session FTE (from DPB Form 2-BS)

15,863

Fee

x $20

317,260

1983-841984-85 thru 1989-901990-91 thru 2000-01Estimated RevenuesBookstore Rent105,000110,000110,000Food Service Rent65,00070,00070,000Game Room - Net Proceeds14,00014,00015,000Student Fees @ $20\*317,260317,260317,260Total Estimated Revenues501,260511,260512,260Estimated ExpendituresContractual Services (Utilities, etc.)55,00055,00055,000Maintenance Services7,0007,0007,000Supplies25,00025,00025,000Administration (inc. allocated)18,00018,00018,000Other26,00026,00026,000Total Estimated Expenditures131,000131,000131,000ESTIMATED NET REVENUE370,260380,260381,260\* Regular Session FTE (from DPB Form 2-BS)15,863Feex $20317,260

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE NEWCOMB HALL ADDITION INTEREST RATE 8.5 %
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

YEAR

REMAINING PRINCIPAL

PRINCIPAL PAYMENT

INTEREST PAYMENT

TOTAL DEBT SERV PAYT

REVENUE

COVERAGE

2,800,000.00

1983

2,740,000.00

60,000.00

238,000.00

298,000.00

326,000.00

1.09

1984

2,675,000.00

65,000.00

232,900.00

297,900.00

326,000.00

1.09

1985

2,605,000.00

70,000.00

227,375.00

297,375.00

326,000.00

1.10

1986

2,530,000.00

75,000.00

221,425.00

296,425.00

326,000.00

1.10

1987

2,450,000.00

80,000.00

215,050.00

295,050.00

326,000.00

1.10

1988

2,360,000.00

90,000.00

208,250.00

298,250.00

326,000.00

1.09

1989

2,265,000.00

95,000.00

200,600.00

295,600.00

326,000.00

1.10

1990

2,160,000.00

105,000.00

192,525.00

297,525.00

326,000.00

1.10

1991

2,050,000.00

110,000.00

183,600.00

293,600.00

326,000.00

1.11

1992

1,930,000.00

120,000.00

174,250.00

294,250.00

326,000.00

1.11

1993

1,800,000.00

130,000.00

164,050.00

294,050.00

326,000.00

1.11

1994

1,655,000.00

145,000.00

153,000.00

298,000.00

326,000.00

1.09

1995

1,500,000.00

155,000.00

140,675.00

295,675.00

326,000.00

1.10

1996

1,330,000.00

170,000.00

127,500.00

297,500.00

326,000.00

1.10

1997

1,145,000.00

185,000.00

113,050.00

298,050.00

326,000.00

1.09

1998

945,000.00

200,000.00

97,325.00

297,325.00

326,000.00

1.10

1999

730,000.00

215,000.00

80,325.00

295,325.00

326,000.00

1.10

2000

495,000.00

235,000.00

62,050.00

297,050.00

326,000.00

1.10

2001

240,000.00

255,000.00

42,075.00

297,075.00

326,000.00

1.10

2002

0.00

240,000.00

20,400.00

260,400.00

326,000.00

1.25

\------------

\------------

\------------

TOTAL

2,800,000.00

3,094,425.00

5,894,425.00

YEARREMAINING PRINCIPALPRINCIPAL PAYMENTINTEREST PAYMENTTOTAL DEBT SERV PAYTREVENUECOVERAGE2,800,000.0019832,740,000.0060,000.00238,000.00298,000.00326,000.001.0919842,675,000.0065,000.00232,900.00297,900.00326,000.001.0919852,605,000.0070,000.00227,375.00297,375.00326,000.001.1019862,530,000.0075,000.00221,425.00296,425.00326,000.001.1019872,450,000.0080,000.00215,050.00295,050.00326,000.001.1019882,360,000.0090,000.00208,250.00298,250.00326,000.001.0919892,265,000.0095,000.00200,600.00295,600.00326,000.001.1019902,160,000.00105,000.00192,525.00297,525.00326,000.001.1019912,050,000.00110,000.00183,600.00293,600.00326,000.001.1119921,930,000.00120,000.00174,250.00294,250.00326,000.001.1119931,800,000.00130,000.00164,050.00294,050.00326,000.001.1119941,655,000.00145,000.00153,000.00298,000.00326,000.001.0919951,500,000.00155,000.00140,675.00295,675.00326,000.001.1019961,330,000.00170,000.00127,500.00297,500.00326,000.001.1019971,145,000.00185,000.00113,050.00298,050.00326,000.001.091998945,000.00200,000.0097,325.00297,325.00326,000.001.101999730,000.00215,000.0080,325.00295,325.00326,000.001.102000495,000.00235,000.0062,050.00297,050.00326,000.001.102001240,000.00255,000.0042,075.00297,075.00326,000.001.1020020.00240,000.0020,400.00260,400.00326,000.001.25------------------------------------TOTAL2,800,000.003,094,425.005,894,425.00

Exhibit C UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Preliminary Feasibility Study for Housing for Approximately 300 Students Prepared by The University of Virginia Budget Office In Consultation with the Director of Business Operations March 10, 1983UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Housing for Approximately 300 Students Project Description
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The University is planning to construct housing for 300 students during the 1982-84 biennium. The Structure is expected to be completed in 1983-84 at a cost of $5,000,000 including utilities. We have requested approval of the total project by the General Assembly, and we would like to include $5,000,000 in a revenue bond issue for permanent financing.

The Student Housing Division is a self-supporting auxiliary enterprise, acting in direct support of the education mission of the University of Virginia. The housing of students has been the concern of the University since its founding. The University has two main goals in providing students with housing accommodations on the Grounds. The first is to furnish students with a variety of housing arrangements at reasonable cost. The second is to provide an environment in which each student may achieve the maximum realization of his or her potential--intellectually, socially, and physically. It is expected that attributes such as self-discipline, concern for the rights of others, mental and social maturity, and respect for public private property will be fostered in group residence situations.

As a part of the University's orientation and advisory system, all students entering one of the undergraduate schools directly from secondary school are required to live in one of the residence houses during their first year. After the first year in residence, a student may live in University housing, provided space is available. At the present time, University accommodations for single upperclass students are severely limited.

The rapid growth of the University during the last decade has created a critical need for student housing, undergraduate and graduate, and although 5,103 units will be available by 1984-85, the student population will total 16,400. The University has an objective of providing housing for 50% of the student body.

Private enterprise has responded to the University's inability to provide sufficient housing for its student population by building increasing numbers of apartment units in close proximity to the Grounds. However, the profit motive and inflation have combined to make many of these units beyond the financial resources of the average student. The University has resorted to a "lottery" system for other than first-year students to compete for available spaces. Competition among upperclass students resulted in 5,000 students applying, through a recent lottery, for 1,873 available spaces. The situation is not expected to improve in the foreseeable future.

Payment of the debt will be from revenue from room rent. Rates are projected for the new facility at $1,450 per student during the academic session. In addition, summer conferences are expected to generate an additional $75,000 in revenues per year. It will be necessary to subsidize the facility from the existing housing system in an approximate amount of $293,800. In calculating the debt payment schedule, we use 8.5% as our interest rate and extended payments over 20 years. These resulted in coverage of approximately 110%.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Housing for Approximately 300 Students Estimated Net Revenue Available for Debt Service for $5,000,000 Bond Issue
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated Revenues

Regular Session 300 Students: 300 X $1,450 per session X 98% occupancy

$ 426,300

Less 6 Resident Assistants at 1/2 Cost

(4,350)

Summer Conferences

75,000

$ 496,950

Estimated Expenditures

Personal Services & Fringe Benefits

$ 50,000

Utilities, Administration & Maintenance

94,500

Other Contractual Services

63,250

Total Estimated Expenditures

207,750

Subtotal Estimated Net Revenues

$ 289,200

Housing System Subsidy

293,800

Total Estimated Net Revenues

$ 583,000

Estimated RevenuesRegular Session 300 Students: 300 X $1,450 per session X 98% occupancy$ 426,300Less 6 Resident Assistants at 1/2 Cost(4,350)Summer Conferences75,000$ 496,950Estimated ExpendituresPersonal Services & Fringe Benefits$ 50,000Utilities, Administration & Maintenance94,500Other Contractual Services63,250Total Estimated Expenditures207,750Subtotal Estimated Net Revenues$ 289,200Housing System Subsidy293,800Total Estimated Net Revenues$ 583,000

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE HOUSING FOR 300 STUDENTS INTEREST RATE 8.5 %
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

YEAR

REMAINING PRINCIPAL

PRINCIPAL PAYMENT

INTEREST PAYMENT

TOTAL DEBT SERV PAYT

REVENUE

COVERAGE

5,000,000.00

1983

4,895,000.00

105,000.00

425,000.00

530,000.00

583,000.00

1.10

1984

4,785,000.00

110,000.00

416,075.00

526,075.00

583,000.00

1.11

1985

4,665,000.00

120,000.00

406,725.00

526,725.00

583,000.00

1.11

1986

4,535,000.00

130,000.00

396,525.00

526,525.00

583,000.00

1.11

1987

4,390,000.00

145,000.00

385,475.00

530,475.00

583,000.00

1.10

1988

4,235,000.00

155,000.00

373,150.00

528,150.00

583,000.00

1.10

1989

4,065,000.00

170,000.00

359,975.00

529,975.00

583,000.00

1.10

1990

3,880,000.00

185,000.00

345,525.00

530,525.00

583,000.00

1.10

1991

3,680,000.00

200,000.00

329,800.00

529,800.00

583,000.00

1.10

1992

3,465,000.00

215,000.00

312,800.00

527,800.00

583,000.00

1.10

1993

3,230,000.00

235,000.00

294,525.00

529,525.00

583,000.00

1.10

1994

2,975,000.00

255,000.00

274,550.00

529,550.00

583,000.00

1.10

1995

2,700,000.00

275,000.00

252,875.00

527,875.00

583,000.00

1.10

1996

2,400,000.00

300,000.00

229,500.00

529,500.00

583,000.00

1.10

1997

2,075,000.00

325,000.00

204,000.00

529,000.00

583,000.00

1.10

1998

1,725,000.00

350,000.00

176,375.00

526,375.00

583,000.00

1.11

1999

1,345,000.00

380,000.00

146,625.00

526,625.00

583,000.00

1.11

2000

930,000.00

415,000.00

114,325.00

529,325.00

583,000.00

1.10

2001

480,000.00

450,000.00

79,050.00

529,050.00

583,000.00

1.10

2002

0.00

480,000.00

40,800.00

520,800.00

583,000.00

1.12

\------------

\------------

\------------

TOTAL

5,000,000.00

5,563,675.00

10,563,675.00

YEARREMAINING PRINCIPALPRINCIPAL PAYMENTINTEREST PAYMENTTOTAL DEBT SERV PAYTREVENUECOVERAGE5,000,000.0019834,895,000.00105,000.00425,000.00530,000.00583,000.001.1019844,785,000.00110,000.00416,075.00526,075.00583,000.001.1119854,665,000.00120,000.00406,725.00526,725.00583,000.001.1119864,535,000.00130,000.00396,525.00526,525.00583,000.001.1119874,390,000.00145,000.00385,475.00530,475.00583,000.001.1019884,235,000.00155,000.00373,150.00528,150.00583,000.001.1019894,065,000.00170,000.00359,975.00529,975.00583,000.001.1019903,880,000.00185,000.00345,525.00530,525.00583,000.001.1019913,680,000.00200,000.00329,800.00529,800.00583,000.001.1019923,465,000.00215,000.00312,800.00527,800.00583,000.001.1019933,230,000.00235,000.00294,525.00529,525.00583,000.001.1019942,975,000.00255,000.00274,550.00529,550.00583,000.001.1019952,700,000.00275,000.00252,875.00527,875.00583,000.001.1019962,400,000.00300,000.00229,500.00529,500.00583,000.001.1019972,075,000.00325,000.00204,000.00529,000.00583,000.001.1019981,725,000.00350,000.00176,375.00526,375.00583,000.001.1119991,345,000.00380,000.00146,625.00526,625.00583,000.001.112000930,000.00415,000.00114,325.00529,325.00583,000.001.102001480,000.00450,000.0079,050.00529,050.00583,000.001.1020020.00480,000.0040,800.00520,800.00583,000.001.12------------------------------------TOTAL5,000,000.005,563,675.0010,563,675.00
