---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1983'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1983) January 22, 1983
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 22, 1983

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 22, 1983
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:25 p.m., in Open Session on January 20, 1983, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent were Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., and David N. Montague. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond Haas, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on January 22, 1983, at 10:00 a.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent were C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., and James L. Trinkle. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond Haas, Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Edwin E. Floyd, William H. Muller, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 16, 1982, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 17 of the Board meeting agenda for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 10 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for Item Number 20 on that Committee's agenda for discussion of legal matters within the Board's jurisdiction involving indemnification as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 19 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (5) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 18 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion and consideration of the acquisition or use of real property for public purposes that could affect the value of property owned or desirable for ownership by the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.(f) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for Item Number 17 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of matters relating to gifts, bequests and fund raising activities as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (7) of the Virginia Code.(g) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 7 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (1) of the Virginia Code.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 10:00 a.m., on January 22, 1983.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Sally A. Amero as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Carol A. Bryant as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective November 1, 1982.Dr. Sneh P. Burman as Research Instructor in Anatomy, for the period October 1, 1982 through August 31, 1983.Mr. Stephen D. Campbell as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. James P. Cohoon as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period December 1, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Mr. Alred G. Colley, III as Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period October 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Peter M. Dierks as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Walter J. Dressick as Instructor in Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mrs. Rebecca P. Emmons as Research Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Richard D. Hughes as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period January 16, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Douglas P. Hurd as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period October 16, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Petronella G. Jansen as Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period November 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. David C. Johnson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1983.Ms. Anna B. Kinney as Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Linda J. Lalor as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Dr. Alfonso Lledo-Perez as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective November 1, 1982.Ms. Nancy S. Luttrell as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period November 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey T. Mason as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective November 1, 1982.Mr. William M. McGovern, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Rollie Oatley, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective October 16, 1982.Mr. Thomas J. Olivier as Associate Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Ms. Patricia Schnatterly as Instructor in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Stanley A. Vinores as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective October 16, 1982.Mrs. Therese Wiedmer as Research Instructor in Pharmacology, for one year, effective October 1, 1982.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby shown below:(a) ElectionsDr. Harold Carron as Distinguished Professor of Anesthesiology, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. James F. Childress as Commonwealth Professor of Religious Studies, and Professor of Medical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Leon Krier as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Architecture, for the period October 1, 1982, through November 30, 1982.Mr. Michael J. Weber as Frank Talbott, Jr. Visiting Professor, School of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.(b) Re-electionMr. Walter J. Wadlington, James Madison Professor of Law and Professor of Legal Medicine, School of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.(c) Leaves of AbsenceMr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982, to visit the University of Illinois.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to remain at the American Enterprise Institute.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to teach at Auburn University.(d) Change of TitleMr. Roger P. Sherman, from Commonwealth Professor of Economics, to Brown-Forman Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1983.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Roger L. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period January 16, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Dennis W. Barnes as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1983 through September 30, 1983.Mr. Bennett I. Bertenthal as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Peter A. Blasco, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective October 16, 1982.Ms. Karen S. Chase as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. William C. Constable, Professor of Radiology, as Professor of Otolaryngology, for the period April 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985.Ms. Ellen Contini-Morava as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Michael J. Cronin as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective November 1, 1982.Ms. Bella M. DePaulo as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Joseph Fletcher as Visiting Scholar in Medical Ethics, Department of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Maureen R. Hanson as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Ms. Caroline T. Holloway as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period December 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr. as Scholar-in-Residence in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Henry S. Johnson, Jr. as Visiting Associate Professor of Dentistry, for one year, effective October 1, 1982.Mr. Donald Kettl as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Craig Kochel as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period December 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Richard A. Lehne as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period October 1, 1982 through May 31, 1983.Mr. Michael Levenson as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Glenn J. McGarvey as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mirle S. Nagaraja Rao as Visiting Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. David M. O'Brien as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Kenneth E. Peacock as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period January 16, 1983 through May 31, 1986.Dr. John T. Philbrick as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Gregory L. Powers as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Gaetano Prampolini as Visiting Scholar of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Christine M. Reppucci as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Laura M. Rivkin as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Joseph W. Snow as Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Mr. Harry W. Storey as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mark Thomas as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Dorothy A. Twohig as Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Lecturer in History, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Van D. Westervelt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Brian L. Wilcox as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Melvin N. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Timothy C. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Michael M. Yoshitsu as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROGER G. HOOD
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Roger G. Hood as Visiting Professor of Law, for the periods October 4, 1982 through October 10, 1982 and March 21, 1983 through April 20, 1983, as approved by the Board on October 16, 1982, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. PETER G. WHITEMAN
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Peter G. Whiteman, Visiting Professor of Law, part-time, as approved by the Board on October 16, 1982, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Dr. Rosser J. Eastham from Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective October 1, 1982.Ms. Joan R. Echtenkamp from Instructor, General Medical Faculty, Claude Moore Health Sciences Library to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Kenneth M. Heatwole from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital to Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, Blue Ridge Hospital, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Richard B. Robins from Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology to Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective October 1, 1982.Dr. Rahmat M. Seif from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. White M. Wallenborn from Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology to Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective October 1, 1982.

CORRECTION IN THE PROMOTION OF MS. BARBARA A. JACKSON
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Ms. Barbara A. Jackson, as approved by the Board of Visitors on March 26, 1982, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Barbara A. Jackson from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.

CORRECTION IN THE PROMOTION OF MS. JANET L. KERN
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Ms. Janet L. Kern, as approved by the Board of Visitors on March 26, 1982, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Janet L. Kern from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1983 through September 30, 1983, to continue as Chief Scientist of the U.S. Senate Committee on Science, Commerce and Transportation.Ms. Marjorie P. Balge, Assistant Professor of Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to work on manuscript.Dr. A. Page Booker, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for the period November 16, 1982 through May 15, 1983, due to the discontinuation of funding sources.Mr. Clive Bradbeer, Professor of Biochemistry, for the period September 1, 1982 through August 31, 1983, to be Visiting Lecturer at the University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.Dr. James R. Kistner, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one month, effective November 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Douglas L. Leslie, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to visit Stanford Law School.Mr. Leonard L. Scott, Jr., Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, for lecture and research at Queen Mary College, University of London, England.Mr. Paul Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, for research on grants from the National Council for Soviet and East European Research and the Earhart Foundation.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard R. Abidin from Professor of Education to Professor of Education and Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Luiz Belardinelli from Research Assistant Professor of Medicine and Research Assistant Professor of Physiology to Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Philip S. Feldman from Associate Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. James D. Hamilton from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period September 21, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Ms. Janet Hermann from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 27, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Mr. J. Michael Hogan from Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies to Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Ann B. Loper from Assistant Professor of Education to Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Scott Masten from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period December 1, 1982 through May 31, 1986.Ms. Janet M. Paarlberg from Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation to Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Robert H. Sanborn from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period October 1, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Mrs. Sandra L. Schmidt from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period November 29, 1982 through June 1, 1985.

CORRECTION IN THE DATE OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF DR. W. MICHAEL SCHELD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the date of the change of title of Dr. W. Michael Scheld, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1982, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. W. Michael Scheld, from Associate Professor of Medicine, to Associate Professor of Medicine and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Ms. Alice G. Bauer, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective April 1, 1983. Ms. Bauer has been a member of the faculty since 1969.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Narinder S. Arora, Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective November 30, 1982, to enter private practice.Mr. Tyler A. Baker, Assistant Professor of Law, effective September 30, 1982, to enter private practice.Mr. James C. Baxter, Assistant Professor of History, effective May 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Dr. Albert B. Butler, Professor of Neurosurgery, effective November 30, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Josue Cruz, Jr., Associate Professor of Education, effective January 16, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Susan E. DeGrange, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective December 10, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. Rufus R. Duffer, Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, effective September 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Jerome T. Fosselman, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, and Associate Director, Finance, effective November 30, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. Peter M. Garber, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective January 15, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert W. Haigh, Dean of the Darden School, effective November 2, 1982, for health reasons. (Deanship only).Dr. Arne C. Jorgensen, Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective January 31, 1983, to return to Norway.Mr. H. David Kay, Research Associate Professor of Medicine, effective December 31, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Allan L. Kayne, Clinical Instructor in Dermatology, effective August 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. W. Michael Kuehl, Professor of Microbiology, effective October 3, 1982, to accept another position.Mrs. Elaine R. Martin, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective October 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Woolridge B. Morton, Jr., Lecturer in Law, effective September 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. James R. O'Reagan, Research Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, effective October 31, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Richard W. Ouisling, Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology, effective June 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Brian W. Renoe, Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective October 22, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. Mark Siegler, Visiting Associate Professor of Medicine, and Visiting Scholar in Religious Studies, effective September 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Burton Spivak, Associate Professor of History, effective January 16, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. William M. Sutherland, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, effective December 31, 1982, to accept a position with the Department of Anatomy.Dr. Cathy Woodring, Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, effective September 30, 1982, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Thomas Best as Chairman, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Stephen D. Campbell as Director of Institutional Planning and Studies, for three years, effective January 1, 1983.Mr. Mark J. Elson as Chairman, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Lavahn Hoh as Chairman, Department of Drama, for five years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John Marshall, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. H.C. Erik Midelfort as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. John W. Rosenblum as Acting Dean of The Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for the period November 2, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Mr. Stephen E. Schnatterly as Chairman, Department of Physics, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Ms. E. Mavis Hetherington as Chairman, Department of Psychology, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jon Mikalson as Chairman, Department of Classics, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Nathan A. Scott, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Wilford W. Spradlin as Chairman, Department of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for five years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Paul B. Stephan as Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Roy Wagner as Chairman, Department of Anthropology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the American Telephone and Telegraph Company Professorship in Engineering, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company Professorship in Commerce, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

APPROVAL OF OMB CIRCULAR A-110 AUDIT REPORT
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the OMB Circular A-110 Audit Report for the University of Virginia as presented by the Vice President for Business and Finance is hereby accepted as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF 1983 INTERNAL AUDIT SCHEDULE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1983 Internal Audit Schedule as presented by the Director of Audits be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period September 17, 1982, through January 12, 1983, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

COMMENDATION OF AUDIT DEPARTMENT
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Audit Department be commended for its effective and thorough handling of its internal audit functions during the past year.

APPROVAL OF REVISED PLANS FOR SPRIGG LANE DORMITORIES
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Albemarle Garden Club and other friends of the University have expressed concern about the effects of the Sprigg Lane housing development upon Morea, and have requested that construction be undertaken as far from the Morea structure as feasible; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors is sympathetic to that concern;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that approval for the original site plan for the Sprigg Lane student housing project be and it is hereby rescinded; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that plans 3 and 3A for that project are approved as acceptable.

AUTHORIZATION FOR SALE OF RECK PROPERTY IN RICHMOND
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to sell the University's interest in the Reck Property in Richmond for $16,450, provided this sale is approved by the Governor.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Vice President Raymond Haas reported on a number of projects in the planning stage and others under construction. The largest project under construction is a student housing project at Alderman and Stadium Roads.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President reported that due to revenue shortfalls that state funds have been cut 5 percent for this year, and that a 9.6 percent cut is projected for the next year. He said that Higher Education has been required to take a disproportionate share of the state budget cuts.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,910,607.91

Free Service

$6,057,640.41

\--------------

Total

$7,968,248.32

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 26,389.10

Free Service

429,904.70

\--------------

Total

$ 456,293.80

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 452 through 463 for the months of August, 1982 through November, 1982, totaling $7,968,248.32, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 499 through 513 for the months of August, 1982 through November, 1982, totaling $456,293.80 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,910,607.91Free Service$6,057,640.41--------------Total$7,968,248.32Blue Ridge Hospital:Bad Debts$ 26,389.10Free Service429,904.70--------------Total$ 456,293.80 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

INCREASE IN SUMMER TUITION AND FEES FOR 1983
--------------------------------------------

Actual 1982

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983

FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ -

\-

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Intramurals

4.00

.50

12.5%

4.50

Newcomb Hall

6.00

1.00

16.7%

7.00

Drama

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Student Health

25.00

2.50

10.0%

27.50

Transportation

8.00

\-

\-

8.00

\------

\------

\------

TOTAL

$51.00

$ 4.00

7.8%

$55.00

PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Registration

$ 6.00

$ -

\-

$ 6.00

Diploma

1.00

\-

\-

1.00

Intramurals

1.75

.50

28.5%

2.25

Newcomb Hall

2.75

.25

9.1%

3.00

Drama

.50

\-

\-

.50

Student Health

19.00

2.25

11.8%

21.25

Transportation

4.00

\-

\-

4.00

\------

\------

\------

$35.00

$ 3.00

8.6%

$38.00

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$40.00

$ 5.00

12.5%

$ 45.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

80.00

10.00

12.5%

90.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

115.00

7.00

6.1%

122.00

APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM

$360.00

$45.00

12.5%

$ 405.00

NON-RESIDENT FEE

Proposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session

$ 25.00

$ 5.00

20.0%

$30.00

Actual 1982

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$29.00

$ 3.00

10.3%

$ 32.00

Insurance

2.00

\-

\-

2.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

115.00

7.00

6.1%

122.00

Non-virginian

230.00

14.00

6.1%

244.00

Post doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

46.00

3.00

6.5%

49.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$225.00

15.00

6.7%

$240.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

150.00

10.00

6.7%

160.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

90.00

6.00

6.7%

96.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$ 55.00

\-

\-

$55.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

55.00

\-

\-

55.00

Laing Center

77.00

\-

\-

77.00

North

66.00

\-

\-

66.00

South

66.00

\-

\-

66.00

Northwest

66.00

\-

\-

66.00

West

77.00

\-

\-

77.00

Hentz-Mohr

99.00

\-

\-

99.00

kitchen

121.00

\-

\-

121.00

Clayton

99.00

\-

\-

99.00

Catesby

83.00

\-

\-

83.00

Gattinger

83.00

\-

\-

83.00

Michaux

99.00

\-

\-

99.00

with kitchen

121.00

\-

\-

121.00

Washington

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Banister

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

LeConte

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Hariot

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Schoew

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Maphis

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Holbrook

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Mitchell

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Burns

88.00

\-

\-

88.00

Rafinesque

77.00

\-

\-

77.00

Other Rental Plans

Rafinesque -

September - May: $11/night for 1 or 2 persons or $70/week; $3/night for each additional person.

September - November and March - May: $220/month

December - February: $248/month

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Summer Session fees for the University Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1983: Actual 1982Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983FULL TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ --$ 6.00Diploma1.00--1.00Intramurals4.00.5012.5%4.50Newcomb Hall6.001.0016.7%7.00Drama1.00--1.00Student Health25.002.5010.0%27.50Transportation8.00--8.00------------------TOTAL$51.00$ 4.007.8%$55.00PART TIME COMPREHENSIVE FEERegistration$ 6.00$ --$ 6.00Diploma1.00--1.00Intramurals1.75.5028.5%2.25Newcomb Hall2.75.259.1%3.00Drama.50--.50Student Health19.002.2511.8%21.25Transportation4.00--4.00------------------$35.00$ 3.008.6%$38.00TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$40.00$ 5.0012.5%$ 45.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)80.0010.0012.5%90.00Thesis/Dissertation Research115.007.006.1%122.00APPELLATE JUDGES PROGRAM$360.00$45.0012.5%$ 405.00NON-RESIDENT FEEProposed fee is equal to the Board approved fee for the Regular Session$ 25.00$ 5.0020.0%$30.00 The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station: Actual 1982Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983Lab Fee and Field Trip$29.00$ 3.0010.3%$ 32.00Insurance2.00--2.00Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:Virginian115.007.006.1%122.00Non-virginian230.0014.006.1%244.00Post doctoral Laboratory:Fee per week46.003.006.5%49.00MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$225.0015.006.7%$240.00Each Person 10-16 years of age150.0010.006.7%160.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger90.006.006.7%96.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$ 55.00--$55.00CottagesLaing Singles55.00--55.00Laing Center77.00--77.00North66.00--66.00South66.00--66.00Northwest66.00--66.00West77.00--77.00Hentz-Mohr99.00--99.00kitchen121.00--121.00Clayton99.00--99.00Catesby83.00--83.00Gattinger83.00--83.00Michaux99.00--99.00with kitchen121.00--121.00Washington88.00--88.00Banister88.00--88.00LeConte88.00--88.00Hariot88.00--88.00Schoew88.00--88.00Maphis88.00--88.00Holbrook88.00--88.00Mitchell88.00--88.00Burns88.00--88.00Rafinesque77.00--77.00Other Rental PlansRafinesque -September - May: $11/night for 1 or 2 persons or $70/week; $3/night for each additional person.September - November and March - May: $220/monthDecember - February: $248/month

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1983
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1982

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1983

SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 27.00

$ 2.00

7.4%

$ 29.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

34.00

2.00

5.9%

36.00

Nurses Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occup.

$ 33.00

$ 3.00

9.1%

$ 36.00

Per student, per week, single occup.

42.00

3.00

7.1%

45.00

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 13.50

$ 0

0%

$ 13.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

19.00

0

0%

19.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 11.50

$ .50

4.3%

$ 12.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

16.50

.50

3.0%

17.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 9.00

$ .50

5.6%

$ 9.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

13.00

0

0%

13.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 8.00

$ .50

6.3%

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

12.00

0

0%

12.00

Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 13.50

$ 1.00

7.4%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

$ 19.00

2.00

10.5%

21.00

(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 11.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

N/A

\-

\- %

16.00

Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt

$150.00

$15.00

10.0%

$165.00

Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt

200.00

20.00

10.0%

220.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1982

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1983

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 10.00

Per person, per night, single occup.

N/A

\-

\- %

14.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 8.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

N/A

\-

\- %

10.00

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 7.50

Per person, per night, single occup.

N/A

\-

\- %

8.00

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 9.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 9.00

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ N/A

$ -

\- %

$ 7.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occup.

$ 6.50

$ 0

0%

$ 6.50

OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

GRADUATE SUITES

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$ 65.00

$ 5.00

7.7%

$ 70.00

GUEST FACILITIES

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per first night

$ 10.00

$ .58

5.8%

$ 10.58

Per person, for night thereafter

8.00

.65

8.1%

8.65

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following rental rates for housing facilities for the Summer, 1983, be and they are hereby approved: FACILITYActual Summer 1982Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1983SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)Alderman-ObservatoryPer student, per week, double occup.$ 27.00$ 2.007.4%$ 29.00Per student, per week, single occup.34.002.005.9%36.00Nurses Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occup.$ 33.00$ 3.009.1%$ 36.00Per student, per week, single occup.42.003.007.1%45.00SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ 13.50$ 00%$ 13.50Per person, per night, single occup.19.0000%19.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 11.50$ .504.3%$ 12.00Per person, per night, single occup.16.50.503.0%17.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 9.00$ .505.6%$ 9.50Per person, per night, single occup.13.0000%13.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 8.00$ .506.3%$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup.12.0000%12.00Copeley Hill, Phase III & IVPer person, per night, double occup.$ 13.50$ 1.007.4%$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occup.$ 19.002.0010.5%21.00(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 11.00Per person, per night, single occup.N/A-- %16.00Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apt$150.00$15.0010.0%$165.00Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apt200.0020.0010.0%220.00 FACILITYActual Summer 1982Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1983Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 10.00Per person, per night, single occup.N/A-- %14.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 8.50Per person, per night, single occup.N/A-- %10.00McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 7.50Per person, per night, single occup.N/A-- %8.00(C) NO LINEN SERVICELambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 9.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 9.00Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ N/A$ -- %$ 7.50McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occup.$ 6.50$ 00%$ 6.50OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.GRADUATE SUITESGraduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road HousesPer suite, per week$ 65.00$ 5.007.7%$ 70.00GUEST FACILITIESMcCormick Road HousesPer person, per first night$ 10.00$ .585.8%$ 10.58Per person, for night thereafter8.00.658.1%8.65

INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1983-1984
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1982-83 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983-84 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$ 960

$ 90

9.4%

$1050

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1050

$ 100

9.5%

$1150

Triple Room

$ 840

$ 80

9.5%

$ 920

McCormick Road

Double Room

$ 900

$ 85

9.4%

$ 985

Small Double Room

$ 775

$ 75

9.7%

$ 850

Lawn

Small Single

$1040

$ 100

9.6%

$1140

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1000

$ 100

10.0%

$1100

Regular Single

$1100

$ 100

9.1%

$1200

Range

Regular Single

$1060

$ 100

9.4%

$1160

Crackerbox

Double Room

$1000

$ 95

9.5%

$1095

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwalthmey

Double Room

$ 960

$ 90

9.4%

$1050

Single Room

$1060

$ 100

9.4%

$1160

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses. Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1150

$ 100

8.7%

$1250

Three Bedroom

$1090

$ 100

9.2%

$1190

Facility

Actual 1982-83 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1983-84 Per Month

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill, Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$ 245

$ 23

9.4%

$ 268

Two Bedroom

$ 270

$ 25

9.3%

$ 295

Three Bedroom

$ 295

$ 28

9.5%

$ 323

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$ 235

$ 23

9.8%

$ 258

Two Bedroom

$ 260

$ 25

9.6%

$ 285

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1983-1984: FacilityActual 1982-83 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983-84 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$ 960$ 909.4%$1050Monroe HillDouble Room$1050$ 1009.5%$1150Triple Room$ 840$ 809.5%$ 920McCormick RoadDouble Room$ 900$ 859.4%$ 985Small Double Room$ 775$ 759.7%$ 850LawnSmall Single$1040$ 1009.6%$1140Small Single (no fireplace)$1000$ 10010.0%$1100Regular Single$1100$ 1009.1%$1200RangeRegular Single$1060$ 1009.4%$1160CrackerboxDouble Room$1000$ 959.5%$1095Mary Munford/Roberta GwalthmeyDouble Room$ 960$ 909.4%$1050Single Room$1060$ 1009.4%$1160APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Nurses. Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1150$ 1008.7%$1250Three Bedroom$1090$ 1009.2%$1190 FacilityActual 1982-83 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1983-84 Per MonthAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill, Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$ 245$ 239.4%$ 268Two Bedroom$ 270$ 259.3%$ 295Three Bedroom$ 295$ 289.5%$ 323University GardensOne Bedroom$ 235$ 239.8%$ 258Two Bedroom$ 260$ 259.6%$ 285 These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL, THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL SCHOOL, THE CENTRAL HEATING/CHILLER PLANT, THE NEW CABELL WEST PATIO AND THE ARCHITECTURE SCHOOL DECK, THE ROTUNDA DECK AND CERTAIN ROOFING AND REPAIR PROJECTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called on Vice President Raymond Haas to report on the action of the Executive Committee on December 28, 1982, regarding the Approval of Architects for the Replacement Hospital, the Judge Advocate General School, the Central Heating/Chiller Plant, the New Cabell West Patio and the Architecture School Deck, the Rotunda Deck and Certain Roofing and Repair Projects.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF A DEED OF CONSERVATION EASEMENT FOR PROPERTY ABUTTING THE UNIVERSITY'S FAN MOUNTAIN OBSERVATORY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called on Vice President Raymond Haas to report on the action of the Executive Committee on December 21, 1982, regarding the Approval of a Deed of Conservation Easement for Property Abutting the University's Fan Mountain Observatory.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President distributed a report on gifts, grants and contracts. The Board accepted $16,929,691 in Federal Grants and Contracts, $2,907,400 in non government grants and contracts, and $4,927,300 in private gifts in the period September 16, 1982 through December 15, 1982.

REPORT ON CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
--------------------------

The President reported that the Capital Campaign is going well. It has reached 62.8 million dollars on the way to a 90 million dollar goal. He said this portion of the campaign is the most difficult. He advised that donors have been more willing so far to give money for professorships than they have for "bricks and mortar". In conclusion, he advised that area campaigns are now beginning, and that there will be an emphasis on soliciting funds for the Jefferson Scholars Program. Finally Mr. Hereford said that these gifts will not overcome the effects of the large budget cuts imposed by the State. A detailed report on campaign contributions was distributed to the Board.

APPROVAL OF SANITARY SEWER EASEMENT SERVING THE BIRDWOOD PROPERTY
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a Deed of Easement dated January 22, 1983 be and it is hereby granted to the Albemarle County Service Authority for a sanitary sewer line serving the Birdwood Property.

APPROVAL OF SANITARY SEWER EASEMENT TO THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE FOR THE MR-4 BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a Deed of Easement be and it is hereby granted to the City of Charlottesville for a sanitary sewer over parcels of land located Northwest of the end of 12th Street, N.W., the site of the MR-4 Building.

APPROVAL OF WATER LINE EASEMENT SERVING THE BIRDWOOD PROPERTY
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a Deed of Easement dated January 22, 1983 be and it is hereby granted to the Albemarle County Service Authority for a water line serving the Birdwood Property.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF THE PURCHASE OF THE VALENTINE-MASSIE PROPERTIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on December 30, 1982, regarding the Approval of the Purchase of the Valentine-Massie Properties.

APPROVAL OF POLICY ON INDEMNIFICATIONPOLICY ON INDEMNIFICATIONCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSLEAVE OF ABSENCE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following Policy on Indemnification be and it hereby is adopted:

A. The University shall indemnify any person, or estate of any person, who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party, to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative, or investigative, by reason of his (one gender includes the other) being or having been a member of the Board of Visitors or officer, employee or agent of the University, or by reason of his serving or having served at the request of the University as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments (including those for punitive damages), fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in the manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the University and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful; provided, however, that such indemnity shall not be made with respect to:

(1) in the case of an action or suit by or in the right of the University, any amount as to which such person shall have been finally adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duties of the University unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine that in view of all the circumstances of the case, despite the adjudication of liability, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court deems proper; or

(2) in any case, any amount of a judgment or settlement resulting from such person's gross negligence or willful misconduct.

B. Except as ordered by a court pursuant to subparagraph A (1) above, indemnification shall be made by the University only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the person is proper under the applicable standards of this Policy. Such determination shall be made by:

(1) the Board by a majority vote of a quorum of members who were not parties to such case; or

(2) where a quorum of disinterested members is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested members so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion.

C. To the extent that such person has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith. Furthermore, such expenses may be advanced by the University upon:

(1) determination by the President or the Vice-President for Business and Finance from the facts known at that time that it is likely that the person will be entitled to indemnification under the applicable standards of paragraph A hereof; and

(2) receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of any such person to repay such amount unless it shall ultimately be determined that he is entitled to indemnification under this Plan.

D. The University may make to any such person any other or further indemnity that may be authorized by law, or by any provision of the Manual of the Board of Visitors adopted before or after the event. The right of indemnification granted herein shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any such person may be entitled by law or agreement.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence at Clinch Valley College:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, for one semester, effective January 16, 1983, to continue his writing.Following an Executive Session for the discussion of actual or potential litigation or other legal matters within the Board's jurisdiction (on resolution made earlier in the meeting) the Board adjourned at 11:05 a.m.

RCB:jb
