---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1984'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1984) March 30, 1984
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 30, 1984

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 30, 1984
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:55 a.m., in Open Session on March 29, 1984, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gordon F. Willis, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., William H. Muller, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, Ernest H. Ern and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on March 30, 1984, at 9:40 a.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gordon F. Willis, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Mrs. George M. Cochran and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey and Edwin E. Floyd were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 27, 1984, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF JUDGE E. GERALD TREMBLAY
----------------------------------------

The Rector introduced Judge E. Gerald Tremblay to the Board, and thanked him for administering the Oath of Office to Board Members.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced Messrs. James S. Cremins and Jesse B. Wilson, III. He explained that the two other recently appointed Members of the Board, Messrs. Edward E. Elson and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., were delayed by the weather and were expected to arrive later in the day. The Rector extended a warm welcome to all of the new Board Members.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

"The news of Frank Hereford's plans to relinquish the duties of President is received with profound regret. I can think of no other person who could have accelerated the University to the high level of national prominence that we enjoy today.

Frank Hereford was the right man at the right time. He built on the firm foundation laid by Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and strengthened by Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and with his own adherence to excellence fostered achievements that seemed out of reach a decade ago. We have a strong national faculty and students whom Mr. Hereford himself characterizes as "the best in the world." We have a greatly enhanced endowment, stronger ties with our State government, a vastly improved physical plant and a nationally recognized athletic program that has required no sacrifice of our high standards.

Mr. Hereford has excelled in every field of endeavor and his contributions to the leadership of this great University will be felt by those who follow us. Even before he became President, Mr. Hereford was at the center of the efforts to improve the overall educational enterprise as a teacher, a graduate dean, and as vice president and provost.

On a personal note, we owe a special debt to his gracious wife, Ann, who has done so much to bring together the University family of alumni, students, and faculty."

RESOLUTION OF GRATITUDE TO PRESIDENT FRANK L. HEREFORD, JR.
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted by unanimous vote of the Board:

RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors accedes to President Hereford's request to be relieved of administrative duties no later than August 31, 1985, and that in granting his request this Board expresses its deep gratitude to Mr. Hereford and to his wife, Ann, for their untiring efforts on behalf of the University and extends its good wishes for their future happiness.

RESPONSE BY PRESIDENT FRANK L. HEREFORD, JR.
--------------------------------------------

The President said that he and his wife, Ann, feel very fortunate to have been in this position during this period when so much was done to advance the University of Virginia. He expressed appreciation to the Board for its loyal dedication to the University during his presidency.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector, acting under Section 3.2 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, announced his appointments to the Standing Committees of the Board, to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1984.

The Rector, Mr. Fred G. Pollard, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

RENEWAL OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSING
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector, acting under the authority of Section 3.3 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, renewed the Special Committee on Fraternity and Sorority Housing for one year. The membership is as follows:

Mr. James L. Trinkle, Chairman

Mr. John S. Battle, Jr.

Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF THE APPOINTMENT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE NOMINATION OF A PRESIDENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector, acting under Section 4.12 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, announced that he has appointed the following Members of the Board to serve on the Special Committee on the Nomination of a President:

Mr. Fred G. Pollard, Chairman

Mr. John S. Battle, Jr.

Mrs. George M. Cochran

Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr.

Mr. Carl W. Smith

Mr. E. Massie Valentine

Dr. Edgar N. Weaver

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The Rector asked that each Member of the Board write a letter to the Rector and include in the letter the attributes that the new President should have. He said we need to establish the kind of man that the University will need for the years ahead - to the middle 1990s and beyond.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A COMMITTEE FOR THE NOMINATION OF A STUDENT ON THE BOARD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that the following will serve on the Committee for the Nomination of a Student on the Board:

Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Chairman

Mr. William M. Camp, Jr.

Mr. Gordon F. Willis

The Committee was asked to interview and decide among three candidates provided by Vice President Ernest Ern.

EXPRESSIONS OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRING VISITORS
------------------------------------------------

The Rector, speaking for the Board, expressed deep appreciation to four retiring Members of the Board for their services to the University. The retiring Visitors are Messrs. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, David N. Montague and Ferman W. Perry.

ELECTION OF JOSHUA P. DARDEN, JR., TO FILL VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In compliance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., was elected to fill the unexpired term of Mr. William M. Dudley on the Executive Committee. Serving on the Executive Committee are: Rector Fred G. Pollard, John S. Battle, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Carl W. Smith, and E. Massie Valentine.

SCHEDULE OF MEETING DATES FOR 1985
----------------------------------

January 24, 25, and 26, 1985

Charlottesville

March 28, 29, and 30, 1985

Charlottesville

May 30, 31, and June 1, 1985

Charlottesville

October 3 and 4, 1985

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following dates for the 1985 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: January 24, 25, and 26, 1985CharlottesvilleMarch 28, 29, and 30, 1985CharlottesvilleMay 30, 31, and June 1, 1985CharlottesvilleOctober 3 and 4, 1985Charlottesville

STATEMENTS TO THE NEW MEMBERS BY THE RECTOR
-------------------------------------------

The Rector explained the Committee System, the effects of the State's Freedom of Information Act, and the typical schedule of the meetings of the Board.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for Item Number 12 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of legal matters within the Board's jurisdiction.(b) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 13 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(5) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Numbers 14 and 15 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the acquisition or disposition of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 6 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the acquisition or disposition of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 8 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(1) of the Virginia Code.(f) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(6) of the Virginia Code.(g) That the full Board go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of personnel matters involving University officers, appointees, or employees.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 9:40 a.m.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Melissa H. Birch as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Peter A. Campochiaro as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Randolph J. Canterbury as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective March 16, 1984.Mr. William R. Carter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period February 16, 1984 through December 31, 1984.Ms. Patricia A. Cheeks as Instructor in Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Patricia A. Erwin as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period April 16, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Robin A. Felder as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Steven E. Finkel as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. John T. Frauens as Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective February 1, 1984.Mr. Fred C. Frederick as Instructor in Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. R. Ariel Gomez as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Per V. Jenster as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Charles M. Johnson, III as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology and Pediatrics, for three years, effective April 1, 1984.Dr. Charles D. Kellum as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William G. Martin, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Drama, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. John F. Miller as Assistant Professor of Classics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Mark P. O. Morford as Professor of Classics, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Michael Morse as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Sten O. Salomonson as Instructor in Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Cynthia A. Stabenow as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Istvan P. Sugar as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective December 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas J. Sullivan as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective January 9, 1984.Dr. Scott R. Vandenberg as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David L. Vander Meulen as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael J. Weber as Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Janice D. Willis as Commonwealth of Virginia Visiting Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Holly M. Wright as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) ElectionsMr. Edward W. Davis as The Oliver Wight Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Sherwood C. Frey, Jr., as The Ethyl Corporation Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Alexander B. Horniman as The Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph R. Passonneau as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Architecture, part-time, for the period January 16, 1984 through March 15, 1984.Mr. John W. Rosenblum as Sponsors Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective February 1, 1984.Mr. William Rotch as The Johnson and Higgins Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.(b) Leave of Absence for ChairholdersMr. Sidney M. Hecht, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to continue his association with Smith, Kline and French Laboratories.Mr. Verdel A. Kolve, Commonwealth Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to accept a fellowship from the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford, California.(c) Change of Title for ChairholderMr. William W. Sihler, from The Morris Plan Professor of Consumer Credit, The Darden School, to the Ronald E. Trzcinski Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.(d) Retirement of ChairholdersMrs. Mary D. Ainsworth, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1984. She has been a member of the faculty since 1974.Mr. Frederick Hartt, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of the History of Art, effective May 31, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1967.Mr. Frederick C. Mosher, White Burkett Miller Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 30, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1949.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1974.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Howard W. Allen as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Dieter G. Altenpohl as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Mark Altshuller as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Sally A. Amero as Assistant Professor of Biology, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Miss Varnell Armstrong as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for the period July 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984.Ms. Cindy S. Aron as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Dalynn T. Badenhop as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. James J. Barnette as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Emily E. Batinski as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Richard S. Benner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Sharon C. Berk as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. S. Michael Bernhard as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Miriam C. Birdwhistell as Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Bruce C. Black as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period March 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Bruce C. Black as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert A. Bloodgood as Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Joye L. Bowman as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Jack S. Brenizer as Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael F. Brown as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Suzanne K. Burge as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David T. Buxton as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Robert L. Chevalier as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Robert L. Chevalier as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period June 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984.Mrs. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. George T. Crafts as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mrs. Lillie B. Crigler as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jack W. Davidson as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1985.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Scott K. DeVeaux as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Anthony B. Dotson as Associate Professor of Planning, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Acting Assistant Professor of South Asian Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Ms. Betty A. Fletcher as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael S. Forbes as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective April 1, 1984.Lieutenant Oneida H. Franke as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for the period September 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984.Ms. Anne H. Freudenberg as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William P. Gardner as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Mohammad R. Ghanoonparvar as Assistant Professor of Persian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Susanne R. Glass as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Spencer J. Golub as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Theodore W. Graves, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part-time, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Ingrid G. Grieger as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Dieter H. M. Groschel as Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Ms. Maureen R. Hanson as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John F. Harlan, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Diana R. Harrington as Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell as Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1986.Mr. Robert M. Hedrick as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert B. Hitchner as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Ms. Eileen A. Hogan as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Dennis T. P. Hu as Assistant Professor of Chinese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Leslie D. Hurt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William E. Jackson as Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1984 through December 8, 1984.Dr. Richard P. Keeling as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective April 1, 1984.Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Paul W. Kingston as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Miss Anna B. Kinney as Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Cherie L. Kitchell as Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Peter Kleeman as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Karen H. Knierim as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Craig Kochel as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Alwyn Lapsley as Research Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period June 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mrs. Peggye G. Lassiter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Edith C. Lawrence as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Monica C. Lobo as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Charles J. Loewenstein as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Chung-ming Lung as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Timothy L. MacDonald as Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Catherine L. Macklin as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Susan O. Marcell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John M. Markwood as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Francis O. McGuinness as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Jeanne C. Miller as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Linda A. Moore as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Anne K. Myers as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period December 1, 1983 through June 30, 1987.Dr. Eero G. Niskanen as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Margaret M. O'Bryant as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas J. Olivier as Scholar in Residence, Department of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Lieutenant Colonel James P. Pennell as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for the period September 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984.Ms. Carol M. Pfeiffer as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Jeanne M. Pietig as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael F. Plunkett as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Ann P. Pollard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Miss Patricia A. Powell as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. G. Carleton Ray as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Christine M. Reppucci as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Dorothy F. Rudolph as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1984.Ms. Cindi W. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. James R. Self as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. C. Clinton Sisson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Edward A. Smith, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Miss Eileen T. Somerville as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Michael A. Spar as Assistant Professor, Darden School, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Paul B. Stephan as Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. James W. Stone as Associate Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. J. Adelheid Synnatzschke-Cochran as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Patricia A. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Carolyn E. Taylor as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective April 16, 1984.Ms. Sylvia V. Terry as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Gary R. Treadway as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Frederic B. Walker, IV as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1984.Mr. Ronald S. Warren, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Monica M. Weinzapfel as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Miss Nancy I. Whitman as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Donna D. Wilson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Hope W. Wilson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Henry W. Wingate as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jerry O. Wolff as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Houston G. Wood, III as Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Karen T. Zagona as Assistant Professor of Linguistics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. J. Milton Adams from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Willie A. Andersen from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. William P. Arnold from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Lloyd E. Barrett from Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Alan R. Beckenstein from Associate Professor of Business Economics, The Darden School to Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas W. Best from Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures to Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Berniel B. Bjorklund from Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John D. Bonvillian from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. James C. Boyd from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Carolyn M. Brunner from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David W. Carter from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1984.Miss Janis Childs from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. William L. Clarke from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Philip H. Cooper from Associate Professor of Pathology and Dermatology to Professor of Pathology and Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Joan St.C. Crane from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mrs. Linda R. Davies from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. John P. DiMarco from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John J. Dobbins from Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1984.Mrs. Patillo Donald from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Charles G. Durbin from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Karen S. Edge from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Wei Li Fang from Instructor in Medical Education to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Peter W. Farrell from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John R. Faulkner from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Jay W. Fox from Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. James B. Francis from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Robert S. Gibson from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Harry L. Gutman from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Patrice G. Guyenet from Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David T. Haberly from Associate Professor of Portuguese to Professor of Portuguese, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John T. Hackett from Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Joyce L. Hamlin from Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Frederick G. Hayden from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Erik L. Hewlett from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. George M. Hornberger from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Alan D. Howard from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Paul W. Humphreys from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John W. Israel from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert E. Johnson from Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Erwin M. Kaplan from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. John Kattwinkel from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Saul X. Levmore from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William B. Levy from Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery to Research Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Ivan S. Login from Research Assistant Professor of Neurology to Research Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Jacob A. Lohr from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David A. Martin from Assistant Professor of Law to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Andrew B. Martof from Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Dentistry and Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mrs. Sheridan V. McCabe from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Richard C. McCarty from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Steven L. Nock from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Blaine E. Norum from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Wallace C. Nunley, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. J. Thomas Parsons from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John L. Pfaltz from Associate Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Stephen E. Plog from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Patricia B. Porterfield from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Reuben McC. Rainey from Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture to Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture School of Architecture, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Alan D. Rogol from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. C. Edward Rose from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Frank T. Saulsbury from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Gladys E. Saunders from Assistant Professor of French Language and Literature to Associate Professor of French Language and Literature, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Daniel A. Spyker from Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Oswald Steward from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery and Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Neurosurgery and Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs from Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Professor, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Johannes D. Veldhuis from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Gwo-Jaw Wang from Associate Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation to Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Richard Whitehill from Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation to Associate Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. William G. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Peter Armstrong, Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984, to do research.Ms. Cindy S. Aron, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to pursue research.Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger, Associate Professor of Biology, for the period January 16, 1985 through February 28, 1985, to serve as Program Associate at the National Science Foundation.Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger, Associate Professor of Biology, for the period March 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to serve as Program Associate in Genetic Biology at the National Science Foundation.Mr. Edgar K. Browning, Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for educational leave.Mr. John D. Casey, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, to accept a research grant from the National Endowment for the Arts.Dr. Paul M. Dee, Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1984, to write a book.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, to do research and writing.Mr. Robert E. Ellison, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, for educational purposes.Ms. Marjorie Flavin, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for educational and research purposes.Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor of Education, for the period May 1, 1984 through August 31, 1984, to serve as Colonel in the Army Reserves.Mr. James G. Hallett, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. James D. Hamilton, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for educational and research purposes.Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, to conduct research.Mr. Bruce P. Hayden, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, for educational purposes.Mr. Edward R. Howorka, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Paul W. Humphreys, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, on National Science Foundation Grant for research.Mr. Jon D. Mikalson, Associate Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to be a member of the Institute of Advanced Studies at Princeton University.Mr. David H. Miles, Associate Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to complete present projects.Mr. Lewis J. Orphanos, Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, with partial pay, effective January 16, 1984, because of reduction in work effort.Mr. Yale Rabin, Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for one month, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Christine M. Reppucci, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Amram Samuni, Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period March 3, 1984 through June 30, 1984, to conduct research in radiobiology at N.I.H..Mr. Wayne L. Shebilske, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to continue as study director for the National Academy of Sciences.Ms. Margaret D. Stetz, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985, to pursue research.Mr. Mark F. Thomas, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to pursue research.Ms. Renate L. Voris, Assistant Professor of German, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, to complete research projects.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF G. CARLTON RAY
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. G. Carlton Ray, as approved by the Board on January 27, 1984, be changed to read as follows:Mr. G. Carlton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1983 through January 31, 1984, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Stuart T. Bray from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Kandioura Drame from Acting Assistant Professor of French to Assistant Professor of French, for the period January 16, 1984 through May 31, 1986.Mr. Lawrence O. Goedde from Acting Assistant Professor of Art History to Assistant Professor of Art History, for the period January 16, 1984 through May 31, 1985.Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell from Visiting Professor of Economics, part-time to Professor of Economics, full-time, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1986.Ms. Linda J. Lalor from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Clinical Instructor in Nursing, for the period January 2, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Ms. Elizabeth H. Morreim from Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Lecturer in Religious Studies, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology, and Biomedical Engineering, for the period January 1, 1984 through May 31, 1986.Mr. Mark F. Thomas from Acting Assistant Professor of History to Assistant Professor of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mrs. Mary D. Ainsworth, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1984. She has been a member of the faculty since 1974.Dr. C. Knight Aldrich, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1973.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, effective May 31, 1984. Mr. Crowell has been a member of the faculty since 1948.Mr. Frederick Hartt, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of the History of Art, effective May 31, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1967.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective May 31, 1984. Mr. Kinnier has been a member of the faculty since 1946.Dr. Samuel E. Miller, Professor of Family Medicine and Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1971.Dr. George R. Minor, Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1949.Mr. Frederick C. Mosher, White Burkett Miller Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective June 30, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1949.Mr. William H. Seawell, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1984. Mr. Seawell has been a member of the faculty since 1961.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1984. He has been a member of the faculty since 1974.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics, effective May 31, 1984. Mr. Stocker has been a member of the faculty since 1946.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mrs. Mary D. Ainsworth, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry.Mr. Frederick Hartt, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of the History of Art.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering.Dr. George R. Minor, Professor of Surgery.Mr. Frederick C. Mosher, White Burkett Miller Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs.Mr. William H. Seawell, Professor of Education.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Hilton C. Bowers, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective February 2, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. James B. Bracikowski, Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective March 15, 1984, to accept another position.Mrs. Edith W. Clowes, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Wayne D. Cozart, Instructor, General Faculty, effective March 31, 1984, to accept a position with the Alumni Association.Dr. Ivan K. Crosby, Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Robert P. Flood, Associate Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Dante L. Germino, Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences (Deanship only), effective May 31, 1984, to return to full time teaching and research.Mr. Richard J. Hoskins, Lecturer in Law, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Michael E. Johns, Professor of Otolaryngology, effective January 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. James M. Kauffman, Associate Dean for Research, effective June 30, 1984, to return to teaching and research.Ms. Robyn M. Kerler, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective March 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Taik C. Kim, Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Edward M. Leigh, Lecturer in Law, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Susan A. Lynch, Clinical Instructor in Nursing, effective January 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. John B. Rhinelander, Lecturer in Law, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. David Sive, Visiting Professor of Law, effective January 16, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Edgar A. Starke, Jr., Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, effective July 1, 1984, to become Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science.Dr. Gordon J. Trockman, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective March 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Brownie S. Tucker, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective March 16, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Clarence E. Wayne, Research Instructor in Mathematics, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Larry A. Widner, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Raymond C. Wolf, Assistant Professor of Drama, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. George M. Wyatt, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. David C. Benjamin as Associate Provost for Research, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. J. James Murray, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Biology, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. A. B. Reynolds as Acting Chairman, Department of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Frederick S. Richardson as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr as Chairman, Department of Psychology, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Edgar A. Starke, Jr. as Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas J. Sullivan as Assistant Vice President for Medical Center Development and Community Relations, for three years, effective January 9, 1984.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mrs. Marjorie H. Andrews as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Miss Barbara M. Brodie as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Walter J. Camp as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, The Darden School, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Dean of Students, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William A. Elwood as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Renee E. Fleming as Assistant Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Robert M. Hedrick as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Lester Hoel as Chairman, Department of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert Huskey as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, part-time, for the period January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1987.Mrs. Priscilla Jobe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Richard P. Keeling as Director of Student Health, for the period April 1, 1984 through June 30, 1989.Ms. Karen H. Knierim as Assistant Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. P. David Kovacs as Acting Chairman, Department of Classics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Nicholas H. Morgan as Assistant Provost, for the period June 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Peter L. Munger as Assistant Vice President and University Comptroller, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mrs. Cynthia F. Raines as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Wayne A. Reschke as Assistant Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr as Assistant Vice President for Budget and Planning, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Director of University Athletic Programs, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Sylvia V. Terry as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Carl O. Trindle as Assistant Dean of the College for Educational Programs, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Brownie S. Tucker as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Hope W. Wilson as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.

RE-ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM H. MULLER as VICE PRESIDENT FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. William H. Muller be and he is hereby re-elected as Vice President for Health Affairs, for two years, effective September 1, 1984.

DEATH OF MRS. BETTY N. NORRIS
-----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RONALD E. TRZCINSKI PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Ronald E. Trzcinski Professorship in Business Administration, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to The Wuliger Foundation, Incorporated, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDGAR M. BRONFMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN MODERN JUDAIC STUDIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Edgar M. Bronfman Professorship in Modern Judaic Studies, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. Edgar M. Bronfman who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OLIVER WIGHT PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Oliver Wight Professorship in Business Administration, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Oliver Wight Continuing Trust for Manufacturing Professionalism which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ETHYL CORPORATION PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration a Chair to be known as the Ethyl Corporation Professorship in Business Administration, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Ethyl Corporation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

INCREASE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR 1984-1985
---------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1984-85 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS, E, O

$260

$15

5%

$275

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS, E, O

$295

$15

5%

$310

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS, E

$335

$15

4%

$350

0

Townhouses (10) 3 BR

WS, E

$380

$20

5%

$400

Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$210

$10

5%

$220

Apt. 2, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$235

$10

4%

$245

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$205

$10

5%

$215

Apt. 4, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$220

$10

4%

$230

Gildersleeve/Snowden

Monroe Lane:

1 Bedroom (16)

WS, G, E

$220

$10

4%

$230

2 Bedroom (1)

WS, G, E

$280

$15

5%

$295

Efficiency (2)

WS, G, E

$190

$10

5%

$200

Snowden:

Apt. 1 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$230

$10

4%

$240

Apt. 2 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$230

$10

4%

$240

Apt. 6 (Efficiency)

WS, G, E

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 101 (3BR)

WS, G. E

$345

$15

4%

$360

Apt. 103 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$280

$15

5%

$295

Apt. 201 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$230

$10

4%

$240

Apt. 202 (1BR)

WS, G. E

$230

$10

4%

$240

Apt. 203 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$280

$15

5%

$295

Sundry

Vysotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$240

$10

4%

$250

E, O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Lower Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$240

$10

4%

$250

E

South Cottage (3BR)

WS

$125

$ 5

4%

$130

E, O

Little Morea (1BR)

WS, O, E

$200

$10

5%

$210

McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)

HP, E, WS

$170

$10

6%

$180

Farmhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)

\--

$115

$ 5

4%

$120

WS, E, O

2400 Stadium Road (3BR)

E

$315

$15

5%

$330

WS, G

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1984-85 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS, E

$235

$10

4%

$245

Garage Apt. (2BR)

WS, E, O

$285

$15

5%

$300

Faulkner Property

Holly House (2BR)

WS, E, O

$245

$10

4%

$255

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS, E, O

$110

$ 5

4%

$115

Hedge House (2BR)

WS

$175

$10

5%

$185

E, O

Orchard House (5SRMS)

WS, E, O

$110

$ 5

4%

$115

Carriage House (4BR)

WS

$200

$10

5%

$210

E, O

118 Oakhurst Circle

Upper (2BR)

WS, G

$245

$10

4%

$255

E

Lower (2BR)

WS, G

$275

$15

5%

$290

E

Valley Road Property

503 Valley Road (1BR)

\--

$190

$10

5%

$200

WS, E, G

409 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$230

$10

4%

$240

WS, E, O

411 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$230

$10

4%

$240

WS, E, G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$250

$10

4%

$260

Apt. 12 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$250

$10

4%

$260

Apt. 14 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$240

$10

4%

$250

Apt. 15 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$240

$10

4%

$250

Apt. 21 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$10

5%

$195

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$10

5%

$195

Apt. 23 (Eff.)

WS, E, O

$175

$10

5%

$185

Apt. 24 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$10

5%

$190

Apt. 25 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 26 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 27 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 28 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 31 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$195

$10

5%

$205

Apt. 32 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$10

5%

$200

Apt. 33 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$215

$10

4%

$225

Apt. 34 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$215

$10

4%

$225

Apt. 35 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$210

$10

5%

$220

Apt. 36 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$210

$10

5%

$220

Montebello (3BR)

O

$220

$10

4%

$230

WS, E, G

Upper Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$195

$10

5%

$205

Lower Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$195

$10

5%

$205

Big Morea (4BR)

WS, E, O

$220

$10

4%

$230

Sunnyside (4BR)

O

$315

$15

5%

$330

WS, E

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1983-84 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1984-85 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Monroe Hill House (2BR)

WS, HP

$175

$10

5%

$185

E

Carrs Hill Cottage (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$100

$ 5

5%

$105

Hotel D (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$190

$10

5%

$200

Cash House (3BR)

WS, E, O

$275

$15

5%

$290

Pavilions

Pavilion I

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion II

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion III

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion IV

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion V

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion V Annex

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion VI

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion IX

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Pavilion X (3BR)

WS, HP

$260

$15

5%

$275

E

Blue Ridge Properties

Bldg. 927 (4BR House)

WS

$290

$15

5%

$305

E, O

Bldg. 925 (2BR House)

WS, E

$235

$10

4%

$245

O

Bldg. 924 (2BR House)

WS, E

$235

$10

4%

$245

O

Bldg. 921 (3BR House)

WS, E,

$260

$10

4%

$270

O

Bldg. 919 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$290

$15

5%

$305

Bldg. 916 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$290

$15

5%

$305

Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$10

5%

$200

Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$10

5%

$200

Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$10

6%

$185

Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$10

6%

$185

Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$10

6%

$185

Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$10

6%

$185

Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 917 (2BR House)

HP, WS, E

$235

$10

4%

$245

Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$220

$10

5%

$230

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms

6 Double

HP, WS, E

$ 58

$3

5%

$61

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms

8 Singles

HP, WS, E

$ 70

$5

7%

$75

Per Night

$ 11

$1

9%

$12

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Residential Housing rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1984: FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1983-84 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1984-85 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)WS, E, O$260$155%$2752 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS, E, O$295$155%$3103 Bedroom Houses (16)WS, E$335$154%$3500Townhouses (10) 3 BRWS, E$380$205%$400Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$210$105%$220Apt. 2, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$235$104%$245Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$205$105%$215Apt. 4, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$220$104%$230Gildersleeve/SnowdenMonroe Lane:1 Bedroom (16)WS, G, E$220$104%$2302 Bedroom (1)WS, G, E$280$155%$295Efficiency (2)WS, G, E$190$105%$200Snowden:Apt. 1 (1BR)WS, G, E$230$104%$240Apt. 2 (1BR)WS, G, E$230$104%$240Apt. 6 (Efficiency)WS, G, E$190$105%$200Apt. 101 (3BR)WS, G. E$345$154%$360Apt. 103 (2BR)WS, G, E$280$155%$295Apt. 201 (1BR)WS, G, E$230$104%$240Apt. 202 (1BR)WS, G. E$230$104%$240Apt. 203 (2BR)WS, G, E$280$155%$295SundryVysotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$240$104%$250E, OUpper Alden (3BR)WS, O$260$155%$275ELower Alden (3BR)WS, O$240$104%$250ESouth Cottage (3BR)WS$125$ 54%$130E, OLittle Morea (1BR)WS, O, E$200$105%$210McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)HP, E, WS$170$106%$180Farmhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)--$115$ 54%$120WS, E, O2400 Stadium Road (3BR)E$315$155%$330WS, G FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1983-84 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1984-85 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS, E$235$104%$245Garage Apt. (2BR)WS, E, O$285$155%$300Faulkner PropertyHolly House (2BR)WS, E, O$245$104%$255Holly House Lower (1RM)WS, E, O$110$ 54%$115Hedge House (2BR)WS$175$105%$185E, OOrchard House (5SRMS)WS, E, O$110$ 54%$115Carriage House (4BR)WS$200$105%$210E, O118 Oakhurst CircleUpper (2BR)WS, G$245$104%$255ELower (2BR)WS, G$275$155%$290EValley Road Property503 Valley Road (1BR)--$190$105%$200WS, E, G409 Valley Road (2BR)--$230$104%$240WS, E, O411 Valley Road (2BR)--$230$104%$240WS, E, GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11 (2BR)WS, E, O$250$104%$260Apt. 12 (2BR)WS, E, O$250$104%$260Apt. 14 (2BR)WS, E, O$240$104%$250Apt. 15 (2BR)WS, E, O$240$104%$250Apt. 21 (1BR)WS, E, O$185$105%$195Apt. 22 (1BR)WS, E, O$185$105%$195Apt. 23 (Eff.)WS, E, O$175$105%$185Apt. 24 (1BR)WS, E, O$180$105%$190Apt. 25 (1BR)WS, E, O$190$105%$200Apt. 26 (1BR)WS, E, O$190$105%$200Apt. 27 (1BR)WS, E, O$190$105%$200Apt. 28 (1BR)WS, E, O$190$105%$200Apt. 31 (1BR)WS, E, O$195$105%$205Apt. 32 (1BR)WS, E, O$190$105%$200Apt. 33 (2BR)WS, E, O$215$104%$225Apt. 34 (2BR)WS, E, O$215$104%$225Apt. 35 (2BR)WS, E, O$210$105%$220Apt. 36 (2BR)WS, E, O$210$105%$220Montebello (3BR)O$220$104%$230WS, E, GUpper Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$195$105%$205Lower Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$195$105%$205Big Morea (4BR)WS, E, O$220$104%$230Sunnyside (4BR)O$315$155%$330WS, E FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1983-84 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1984-85 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantMonroe Hill House (2BR)WS, HP$175$105%$185ECarrs Hill Cottage (2BR)WS, E, HP$100$ 55%$105Hotel D (2BR)WS, E, HP$190$105%$200Cash House (3BR)WS, E, O$275$155%$290PavilionsPavilion IWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion IIWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion IIIWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion IVWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion VWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion V AnnexWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion VIWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion IXWS, HP$260$155%$275EPavilion X (3BR)WS, HP$260$155%$275EBlue Ridge PropertiesBldg. 927 (4BR House)WS$290$155%$305E, OBldg. 925 (2BR House)WS, E$235$104%$245OBldg. 924 (2BR House)WS, E$235$104%$245OBldg. 921 (3BR House)WS, E,$260$104%$270OBldg. 919 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$290$155%$305Bldg. 916 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$290$155%$305Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$105%$200Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$105%$200Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$106%$185Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$106%$185Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$106%$185Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$106%$185Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 917 (2BR House)HP, WS, E$235$104%$245Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)HP, WS, E$220$105%$230Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms6 DoubleHP, WS, E$ 58$35%$61Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms8 SinglesHP, WS, E$ 70$57%$75Per Night$ 11$19%$12

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REGULAR SESSION:

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 83-84

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 84-85

Actual 83-84

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 84-85

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time

$1,570

$240

15.3%

$1,810

$3,750

$570

15.2%

$4,320

Medical Technology

910

80

8.8%

990

910

80

8.8%

990

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus.-MBA

2,920

400

13.7%

3,320

6,060

760

12.5%

6,820

Law - JD

2,410

340

14.1%

2,750

5,100

670

13.1%

5,770

Medicine - MD

4,380

490

11.2%

4,870

8,820

870

9.9%

9,690

Other Charges

Student Act. Fee

16

\-

\-

16

16

\-

\-

16

Architecture - Act. Fee

7

3

42.9%

10

7

3

42.9%

10

Commerce - Act. Fee

5

\-

\-

5

5

\-

\-

5

Darden - Act. Fee

\-

N/A

N/A

20

\-

N/A

N/A

20

Education - Act. Fee

2

\-

\-

2

2

\-

\-

2

Engineering - Act. Fee

4

\-

\-

4

4

\-

\-

4

Law School - Act. Fee

22

6

27.3%

28

22

6

27.3%

28

Medicine - Act. Fee

20

12

60.0%

32

20

12

60.0%

32

Nursing - Act. Fee

10

\-

\-

10

10

\-

\-

10

CONTINUING EDUCATION:

Current 1983-84

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984-85

Undergrad. and Grad. Per Semester Hour

$ 50.00

$ 5.00

10.0%

$ 55.00

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour

60.00

15.00

25.0%

75.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

Current 1983-84

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984-85

Change of Status Fee

$ 5.00

\-

\-

$ 5.00

Transcript Fee

2.00

\-

\-

2.00

Late Exam Fee

5.00

\-

\-

5.00

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10.00

\-

\-

10.00

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Assistant Vice President for Budget and Planning.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1984: REGULAR SESSION:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 83-84Amt IncPercent of IncProp 84-85Actual 83-84Amt IncPercent of IncProp 84-85Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time$1,570$24015.3%$1,810$3,750$57015.2%$4,320Medical Technology910808.8%990910808.8%990Professional SchoolsGraduate Bus.-MBA2,92040013.7%3,3206,06076012.5%6,820Law - JD2,41034014.1%2,7505,10067013.1%5,770Medicine - MD4,38049011.2%4,8708,8208709.9%9,690Other ChargesStudent Act. Fee16--1616--16Architecture - Act. Fee7342.9%107342.9%10Commerce - Act. Fee5--55--5Darden - Act. Fee-N/AN/A20-N/AN/A20Education - Act. Fee2--22--2Engineering - Act. Fee4--44--4Law School - Act. Fee22627.3%2822627.3%28Medicine - Act. Fee201260.0%32201260.0%32Nursing - Act. Fee10--1010--10 CONTINUING EDUCATION:Current 1983-84Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984-85Undergrad. and Grad. Per Semester Hour$ 50.00$ 5.0010.0%$ 55.00Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour60.0015.0025.0%75.00Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs10.00--10.00Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only5.00--5.00 Current 1983-84Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984-85Change of Status Fee$ 5.00--$ 5.00Transcript Fee2.00--2.00Late Exam Fee5.00--5.00TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration10.00--10.00Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.OTHER:Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Assistant Vice President for Budget and Planning.

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1983-84

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1984-85

Actual 1983-84

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1984-85

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$1,104

$90

8.7%

$1,200

$1,680

$168

10.0%

$1,848

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

$ 36

$ 4

11.1%

$ 40

$ 60

$ 7

11.7%

$ 67

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$ 36

$ 4

11.1%

$ 40

$ 60

$ 7

11.7%

$ 67

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$ 12

$ 2

16.7%

$ 14

$ 20

$ 4

20.0%

$ 24

Dormitory Rent

$640

$96

15.0%

$ 736

$ 640

$ 96

15.0%

$ 736

Other Fees

Application Fee

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1984: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1983-84Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1984-85Actual 1983-84Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1984-85Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$1,104$908.7%$1,200$1,680$16810.0%$1,848Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour$ 36$ 411.1%$ 40$ 60$ 711.7%$ 67Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$ 36$ 411.1%$ 40$ 60$ 711.7%$ 67Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$ 12$ 216.7%$ 14$ 20$ 420.0%$ 24Dormitory Rent$640$9615.0%$ 736$ 640$ 9615.0%$ 736Other FeesApplication Fee$ 15--$ 15$ 15--$ 15Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour$ 75--$ 75$ 75--$ 75The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

Part-time students will pay a $5 registration fee for a one-hour course, $10 for a two-hour course, and $15 for three hours or more. CEU credit courses will pay a $5 registration fee.

ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES
---------------------------

Actual 1983-84

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1984-85

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ -0-

\--

$ 15.00

University Transit

45.00

3.00

6.7%

48.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area

25.00

\-0-

\--

25.00

Fringe Benefits

105.00

\-0-

\--

105.00

Athletics

60.00

4.00

6.7%

64.00

Student Health

118.00

5.00

4.2%

123.00

University Union

24.00

5.00

20.8%

29.00

University Union Programs

10.00

\-0-

\--

10.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\-0-

\--

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

12.00

5.00

41.7%

17.00

TOTAL

$418.00

$ 22.00

5.3%

$440.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be and it is hereby established, effective July 1, 1984, in the amount of $440;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the fee component be allocated for the 1984-85 Session as follows: Actual 1983-84Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1984-85Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall$ 15.00$ -0---$ 15.00University Transit45.003.006.7%48.00Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area25.00-0---25.00Fringe Benefits105.00-0---105.00Athletics60.004.006.7%64.00Student Health118.005.004.2%123.00University Union24.005.0020.8%29.00University Union Programs10.00-0---10.00Class Affiliation4.00-0---4.00Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities12.005.0041.7%17.00TOTAL$418.00$ 22.005.3%$440.00

INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------------

1983-84 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1984-85 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

General Faculty

Professor

$27,600

$30,400

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

22,600

24,900

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

18,400

20,200

(2)

1 year

Instructor

13,000

14,300

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Department Head

$36,600

$40,300

(2)

1 year

Professor

32,000

35,200

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

26,400

29,000

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

21,200

23,300

(2)

1 year

Instructor

16,600

18,300

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant

$12,800

$14,100

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

13,400

14,700

(2)

1 year

Senior Research Associate

16,200

17,800

(2)

1 year

Senior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant

15,400

16,900

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist/Eng A

$19,200

$21,100

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng B

22,200

24,400

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng C

25,800

28,400

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng A

24,800

27,300

(2)

1 year

Research Director A

28,400

31,200

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng B

28,400

31,200

(2)

1 year

Research Director B

39,000

42,900

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist/Eng

39,000

42,900

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng C

29,600

32,600

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plans applicable to the teaching and research staff in the University Division be and they are hereby approved, effective July 1, 1984: 1983-84 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated. 1984-85 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalGeneral FacultyProfessor$27,600$30,400(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor22,60024,900(2)1 yearAssistant Professor18,40020,200(2)1 yearInstructor13,00014,300(2)1 yearPre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis. Department Head$36,600$40,300(2)1 yearProfessor32,00035,200(2)1 yearAssociate Professor26,40029,000(2)1 yearAssistant Professor21,20023,300(2)1 yearInstructor16,60018,300(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Assistant$12,800$14,100(2)1 yearResearch Associate13,40014,700(2)1 yearSenior Research Associate16,20017,800(2)1 yearSenior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant15,40016,900(2)1 yearSponsored Programs (3)Research Scientist/Eng A$19,200$21,100(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng B22,20024,400(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng C25,80028,400(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng A24,80027,300(2)1 yearResearch Director A28,40031,200(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng B28,40031,200(2)1 yearResearch Director B39,00042,900(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist/Eng39,00042,900(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng C29,60032,600(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1983-84 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1984-85

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$23,400

$23,600

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$18,500

$20,400

(2)

1 year

Assistant Protessor

$15,300

$16,800

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$12,200

$13,400

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1984: Rank1983-84 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1984-85Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$23,400$23,600(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$18,500$20,400(2)1 yearAssistant Protessor$15,300$16,800(2)1 yearInstructor$12,200$13,400(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTRACT RATES FOR FOOD SERVICE, 1984-1985
-----------------------------------------------------------

Food Service Contract

Actual 1983-84

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1984-85

7-Day (19 meals)

$1,278

$ -0-

\--

$1,278

6-Meals per week (New Plan)

$ --

N/A

N/A

$ 600

12-Meals per week

$1,078

$ -0-

\--

$1,078

Flex (15 meals)

$1,218

$ -0-

\--

$1,218

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for food services be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1984-1985: Food Service ContractActual 1983-84Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1984-857-Day (19 meals)$1,278$ -0---$1,2786-Meals per week (New Plan)$ --N/AN/A$ 60012-Meals per week$1,078$ -0---$1,078Flex (15 meals)$1,218$ -0---$1,218

INCREASE IN CLINICAL FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS: SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale 1983-84

Proposed Scale 1984-85

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Professor and Department Head

$51,100

$134,100

$56,200

$147,500

Professor and Division Head

48,700

120,300

53,600

132,300

Professor

44,400

116,300

48,800

127,900

Associate Professor and Division Head

42,600

109,300

46,900

120,200

Associate Professor

38,400

104,400

42,200

114,800

Assistant Professor

32,400

93,400

35,600

102,700

Instructor

28,200

77,300

31,000

85,000

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1984: RankCurrent Scale 1983-84Proposed Scale 1984-85State MaximumCeilingsState MaximumCeilingsProfessor and Department Head$51,100$134,100$56,200$147,500Professor and Division Head48,700120,30053,600132,300Professor44,400116,30048,800127,900Associate Professor and Division Head42,600109,30046,900120,200Associate Professor38,400104,40042,200114,800Assistant Professor32,40093,40035,600102,700Instructor28,20077,30031,00085,000

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President informed the Board of changes in the Commonwealth's Conflict of Interest legislation. The Legal Adviser cautioned the Board Members that they are individually responsible for compliance with the provisions requiring disclosures.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 744,108.45

Free Service

1,762,533.68

\-------------

Total

$2,506,642.13

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Acute -

Bad Debts

15,804.64

Free Service

110,322.88

\-------------

Total Acute

$126,127.52

TB Free Service

27,814.32

TB Free Service (Outpatient)

121.40

\-------------

Total Blue Ridge

$154,063.24

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia schedule numbers 500 through 502, meetings for the month of January 6, 1984 totaling $2,506,642.13 and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 558 through 561, meetings for the month of January 6, 1984 totaling $154,063.24 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$ 744,108.45Free Service1,762,533.68-------------Total$2,506,642.13Blue Ridge Hospital:Acute -Bad Debts15,804.64Free Service110,322.88-------------Total Acute$126,127.52TB Free Service27,814.32TB Free Service (Outpatient)121.40-------------Total Blue Ridge$154,063.24 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such account.

ELECTION OF MRS. MILTON T. EDGERTON as A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY AUXILIARY SERVICES FOUNDATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mrs. Milton T. Edgerton be and she is hereby elected as a member of the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation.

RESIGNATION OF SAM I. YARNELL from THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the resignation from the Miller Center Council of Mr. Sam I. Yarnell, be and it is hereby accepted with regret, effective March 31, 1984; andRESOLVED FURTHER that expressions of appreciation to Mr. Yarnell for his dedicated service to the Miller Center be transmitted to him.

PROPOSED MODIFICATION TO THE MASTER PLAN FOR RESEARCH FACILITY SITE
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the approved University Master Plan be revised to make provision for a service and research facility site adjacent to the Route 29 By-Pass and U.S. Route 250 as depicted on a drawing entitled "Service and Research Facility", dated March 31, 1984, which was presented at the time of the meeting.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported during the period January 1, 1984 through February 29, 1984, $26,113,134 had been awarded to the University in restricted gifts and contracts. Private gifts for the same period totaled $2,244,300. The President expressed gratitude to those who support the University with gifts.

REPORT ON THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
------------------------------

The President reported that contributions to the Capital Campaign Fund in the form of cash or pledges now exceeds $105,000,000, and that the Campaign still is gathering momentum. He said that 2,000 alumni are working on the Campaign. He said "kickoffs" are scheduled in several major cities in the near future.

While gratified by the substantial total, Mr. Hereford cautioned that hard work remains in the raising of funds for the Jefferson Scholars Program, building projects, and the Miller Center for Public Affairs.

Mr. Hereford pointed out that two-thirds of the $105 million has come from out-of-State givers. He also said that the giving record to the University of Virginia exceeds that of any other public institution. The President concluded his report by thanking the Board, the Campaign workers, and the contributors for the outstanding record of contributions.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PRESIDENT TO COOPERATE IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID AND MARY HARRISON VIRGINIA HUMANITIES FOUNDATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the President of the University of Virginia, on behalf of the University, is authorized to cooperate in the establishment of a charitable foundation to be known as the David and Mary Harrison Virginia Humanities Foundation, to be organized and operated under the provisions of Sections 501 (c)(3) and 509 (a)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code; to nominate or suggest the names of persons from whom the Foundation shall select members for its Board of Directors; and generally to take such actions as he deems appropriate to assist in the implementation of the projects and programs of the Foundation for the benefit of the University of Virginia and other institutions of higher learning in the State of Virginia.

SALE OF THE KENT D. CURRIE ESTATE PROPERTY
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to sell, and to execute and deliver a deed conveying, a strip of land consisting of 1.1915 acres of frontage along University property, known as the Kent D. Currie Estate property, located in the Gainesville Managerial District of Prince William County, Virginia, to the County of Prince William so that the present road can be widened and blacktopped. The sale shall be for the sum of $2,815.51, the appraised value, subject to the approval of the Governor.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA RESOLUTION RATIFYING ACTIONS TAKEN IN CONNECTION WITH SHORT TERM BORROWINGS OF UP TO $5,000,000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") duly adopted a resolution on January 27, 1984, authorizing the short term borrowing of up to $5,000,000 to be evidenced by one or more endowment fund revenue notes of the University; andWHEREAS, on March 20, 1984, the University issued its $5,000,000 Endowment Fund Revenue Note, Series of 1984 (the "Note") to United Virginia Bank ("UVB");NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED:1. The issuance of the Note bearing interest on initial borrowings thereunder at a fixed rate of 5.94% per annum, and the other terms of the financing as evidenced by the Note Purchase and Line of Credit Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, between the University and UVB, the Indenture dated as of March 1, 1984, between the University and UVB, as trustee, and the $5,000,000 Special Obligation Promissory Note issued by the University to the University's Endowment Fund and assigned to UVB are hereby approved.2. All other actions taken by the Rector, the Secretary, the Vice President for Business and Finance and any other officer of the University in connection with the issuance of the Note, including the acceptance of UVB's commitment for its purchase, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.3. This resolution shall be effective immediately.

FINANCING FOR 650 STUDENT DORMITORIES AT THE UNIVERSITY IN CHARLOTTESVILLE AND FOR 48 STUDENTS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1983 (the "1983 Act") which Act has been enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia of 1983 and the Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1984 (the "1984 Act"), which Act has been enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia of 1984, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") was authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $33,176,000 pursuant to the 1984 Act, together with additional unissued amounts authorized under the 1983 Act, for the purpose of providing funds, with any other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, and equipping revenue producing capital projects, including the enlarging and improving thereof, at institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;WHEREAS, said revenue producing capital projects include, under the 1983 Act, the construction of a student housing project for 650 students at the University of Virginia (the "Student Housing for 650 Project") and, under the 1984 Act, the construction of a student housing project for 48 students at Clinch Valley College (the "CVC Student Housing Project") at costs now estimated to equal or exceed $11,500,000 and $515,000, respectively;WHEREAS, the Treasury Board proposes to sell by public sale a portion of said bonds tentatively to be designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1984 Series B" (the "1984 Series B Bonds") which will include an amount not to exceed $515,000 for the purpose of financing the CVC Student Housing Project; andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board proposes to sell a portion of said bonds not to exceed $11,500,000 for the benefit of the Student Housing for 650 Project which may be sold by public sale, in which case they will be aggregated with other bonds sold by public sale and designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1984 Series B", or, if deemed advisable by the Treasury Board, which may be sold by private sale through a negotiated underwriting, in which case such bonds may be aggregated with bonds for one or more other institutions sold by private sale therewith and will be designated "Higher Educational Institutions Bonds" with an appropriate separate series designation (for the purpose of this resolution, the bonds to be sold for the Student Housing for 650 Project, whether sold by public or private sale and whether or not accompanied by bonds for other institutions within the same series, shall be referred to as the "Student Housing Bonds");NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rents from all of the state owned housing at Clinch Valley College (the "College") (including, without limitation, the CVC Student Housing Project), and (b) pledges said rents to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued to finance the CVC Student Housing Project; provided that the current expenses of operating all of the College's state owned housing (the "College Housing Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such rents. The Board further covenants that such rents will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from or for the use or otherwise received on behalf of the College's state owned housing, after payment of the College Housing Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued to finance the CVC Student Housing Project, as and when the same become due and to pay debt service on any outstanding obligations that have been previously issued to provide funds for the College's state owned housing, that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued to finance the CVC Student Housing Project to be secured on a parity with such obligations. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of the College Housing Current Expenses, the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued to finance the CVC Student Housing Project when due and debt service on any outstanding obligations issued to provide funds for the College's state owned housing may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University or the College as shown on Exhibit A hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from or on behalf of the College's state owned housing pledged above, will be sufficient to pay the College Housing Current Expenses, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued to finance the CVC Student Housing Project, as the same become due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations issued to provide funds for the College's state owned housing so long as the average interest rate on the 1984 Series B Bonds does not exceed 9.5% per annum.Section 3. The Board covenants that so long as the 1984 Series B Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest on that portion of the 1984 Series B Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the CVC Student Housing Project.Section 4. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and college rents from all of its state owned housing located at the University of Virginia (including, without limitation, the Student Housing for 650 Project), and (b) pledges said rents to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the bonds of any series that includes the Student Housing Bonds; provided that the current expenses of operating all of the University's state owned housing (the "University Housing Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such rents. The Board further covenants that such rents will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from or for the use or otherwise received on behalf of the University's state owned housing, after payment of the University Housing Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest (exclusive of construction period interest, if any, included in the proceeds of the Student Housing Bonds) on such bonds, as well as periodic commitment, remarketing and other similar fees, if any, relating to such bonds, as and when the same become due and to pay debt service on any outstanding obligations that have been previously issued to provide funds for the University's state owned housing, the Student Housing Bonds to be secured on a parity with such obligations. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required to make all payments referred to in the preceding sentence may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.Section 5. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibit B hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from or on behalf of the University's state owned housing pledged above, together with construction period interest included in the proceeds of the Student Housing Bonds, will be sufficient to pay all amounts referred to in the next to last sentence of Section 4 hereof, as the same become due, so long as the total interest cost (including interest and fees) on the Student Housing Bonds does not exceed a rate of 12% per annum.Section 6. In connection with the issuance of the Student Housing Bonds:(A) The Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, if deemed appropriate by the Treasury Board, to solicit indications of interest and to enter into negotiations for the purchase of the Student Housing Bonds and the provision of remarketing services and a back-up liquidity facility from interested parties and to accept the offer or offers deemed by such officers and the Treasury Board to be most beneficial to the University and the Commonwealth of Virginia in terms of interest costs, commitment, remarketing and placement fees and related factors, and, subject to the other provisions hereof, the Student Housing Bonds shall be payable to the persons and issued as and when determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance, the Treasury Board and the purchaser(s) of the Student Housing Bonds and the provider(s) of the remarketing services and the back-up facility so selected.(B) The Student Housing Bonds shall be dated, shall be in such individual principal amounts, shall mature, shall bear interest at such rate(s) payable on such dates, shall be subject to redemption at such times and shall have such other terms not inconsistent herewith, all as shall be determined by the Vice President for Business and Finance subject to the approval of the Treasury Board.(C) In order to set forth the terms and conditions upon which the Student Housing Bonds will be issued and sold, the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers of the University are hereby authorized, upon the approval of the Treasury Board, to provide for the preparation of any one or more agreements or instruments to which the University must be a party in order that the Student Housing Bonds may be issued which shall contain such provisions not inconsistent herewith and be in such form as the officer(s) of the University and officials of the Commonwealth of Virginia executing them and the Treasury Board shall deem appropriate and as may be necessary to carry out the intent hereof.(D) The Rector, Vice President for Business and Finance, Assistant Vice President for Finance, Secretary, Assistant Secretary and any other officer of the University as designated by the Vice President for Business and Finance, are hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of the University to execute and deliver all instruments and documents, to pay all reasonable costs and expenses of issuance (including attorney's fees), and to take such further action in the name and on behalf of the University as they, subject to the approval of the Treasury Board, consider necessary or desirable to carry out the intent and purpose of this resolution, the issuance of the Student Housing Bonds, and the consummation of borrowings thereunder.(E) The action of the Vice President for Business and Finance and other officers of the University in undertaking preliminary discussions with the Treasury Board and third parties interested in the financing contemplated hereby is in all respects ratified and approved.Section 7. The Board covenants that so long as the Student Housing Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest thereon.Section 8. The Board covenants that the University will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the 1984 Series B Bonds and any other series of bonds which includes the Student Housing Bonds, as well as all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, interest and fees on the 1984 Series B Bonds and any other series of which the Student Housing Bonds are a part, all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.Section 9. Obligations which include a principal amount not to exceed $11,500,000 may be issued to finance the Student Housing for 650 Project by public or private sale pursuant to Section 9(d) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia or Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended, in lieu of issuing the Student Housing Bonds. In that event, all provisions hereof applicable to the Student Housing Bonds and related agreements shall be equally applicable to that portion of such other obligations issued to finance the Student Housing for 650 Project as if such obligations were substituted for the term "Student Housing Bonds" herein, except that if the documents pursuant to which outstanding obligations have been issued to provide funds for the University's state owned housing prohibit the issuance of other obligations as contemplated by this Section on a parity with such outstanding obligations, the obligations issued as contemplated by this Section shall be junior to such outstanding obligations. Such obligations may be issued as contemplated by this Section if the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the approval of the Treasury Board, determines that it is impractical to issue the Student Housing Bonds through private sale and that issuance of obligations as contemplated in this Section, rather than the Student Housing Bonds through public sale, will result in interest cost savings or will otherwise be beneficial to the University.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERPromotion
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member at Clinch Valley College be and she is hereby promoted:Mrs. Lana W. Low, from Assistant Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 9:55 a.m.

RCB:jb
