---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1984'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 5, 1984
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., in Open Session on October 4, 1984, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr. William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Carl W. Smith. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on October 5, 1984, at 3:05 p.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Gregory C. Whitehead, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Jesse B. Wilson, III. Also present were Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, and Marion B. Peavey.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 1, 1984, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 9 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion and evaluation of the performance of University departments or schools if individual employees might be affected by the evaluation.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 5 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(5) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 15 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 16 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a)(5) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 17 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of legal matters within the Board's jurisdiction.(f) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.

WELCOME TO GREGORY C. WHITEHEAD
-------------------------------

The Rector extended a welcome to Gregory C. Whitehead to the Board. He was elected by the Board to serve as a non-voting student member on June 1, 1984.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF GREGORY C. WHITEHEAD TO THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE AND THE STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he has assigned Gregory C. Whitehead to serve on the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 3:05 p.m., on October 5, 1984.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Robert C. Allen as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective October 1, 1984.Mr. G. Anandalingam as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Terry Appolonia as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Antoinette S. Arnett as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 5, 1984.Mr. Bruce C. Auerbach as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984, at an academic year salary of $22,000.Mr. Richard D. Balnave as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Scott L. Balthazar as Lecturer in Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Patrick K. Bender as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. R. William Boaden as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas M. Broitman as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 24, 1984.Mr. James R. Brookeman as Professor of Radiology and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 16, 1984.Mr. Stephen N. Brown as Instructor in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Diane R. Campbell as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Edward W. Carr as Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Scott D. Carson as Research Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Giorgio Carta as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Stephen M. Christakos as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Blaine J. Cole as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Lyman A. Collins, II as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Austin R. Colohan as Instructor in Neurological Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mrs. Vicki J. Crews as Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Patricia M. Crittenden as Lecturer in Psychology, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Dr. Thomas M. Daniel as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Beth Davis as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period September 16, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Raymond N. Dominey as Lecturer in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Joanna Dougherty as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Karen O. Dowd as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Ms. Elena Dryzhakova as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Nicholas R. Duke as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Jonathan Eaton as Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Steven C. Elkins as Instructor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period July 22, 1984 through July 21, 1985.Mrs. Sarah P. Farrell as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. George B. Fisher, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Marie L. Flanagan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Gary D. Fletcher as Lecturer in Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. R. Gregory Franchini as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Zvi Friedman as Research Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas F. Gallagher as Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John R. Gilbert as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 15, 1984.Dr. R. Ariel Gomez as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1984.Ms. Jane Z. Gorsky as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 31, 1985.Mr. Robert E. Grese as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas I. Grexa as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 16, 1984.Mr. R. Sergio Guglielmi as Lecturer in Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Margaret E. Gutgesell as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for five years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Howard P. Gutgesell, Jr. as Professor of Pediatrics, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Gilbert Hay as Lecturer, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period June 18, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Dr. Yixin He as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period June 16, 1984 through May 31, 1985.Mr. J. Robert Henderson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Gordon E. Hogg as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mrs. April C. Horner as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Janette C. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Judith S. Hull as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael J. Iwanik as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for the period August 16, 1984 through March 15, 1985.Mr. John P. James as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Alan D. Jenkins as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective June 1, 1984.Mr. David R. Jordan as Lecturer in Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Luke E. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Lori A. Kent as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Evelyn A. Knight as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Ronald J. Krochak as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 16, 1984.Ms. Maria I. Lasaga as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Paul A. Levine as Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Ignacio J. Lopez as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Thomas W. Maddox as Instructor in Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. J. N. Mait as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Laurent Manceron as Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph E. Mattys, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Carol L. Maxwell as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Vicente Maza as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Laura L. McCullough as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Susan K. McIlwain as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Susan McKinnon as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John Meder as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984Mr. Robert E. Molyneux as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period September 1, 1984.Mr. Kevin M. Moss as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert U. Mulder as Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Phillip P. Muth as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Barry M. Newman as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Wei-Tou Ni as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Guillermo Pastor as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. David M. Phillips as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Theodore M. Porter as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Gaetano Prampolini as Visiting Professor of Italian, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Mildred W. Ravenell as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Scott E. Rimbey as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Willie E. Robinson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Frederick A. Rodammer as Instructor in Systems Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Anthony P. Rodrigues as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Ms. Mary M. Rogge as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Julie A. Roin as Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Arunava Saha as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Louise W. Sammons as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Judith K. Sands as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Tomio Sasaki as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jon T. Saunders as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Elizabeth A. Savoca as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Kenneth A. Schwartz as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Jorge E. Secada as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. David W. Sedgwick as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Erhard Seiler as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Albert L. Shaw as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. John T. Sigmon as Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Michael Sochat as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Ernst H. Soudek as Research Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1984 through December 31, 1985.Mr. Wayne M. Sparks as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Judy I. Stahlman as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Glen R. Stewart as Research Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Ronald D. Suiter as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective August 27, 1984.Mr. James C. Torner as Assistant Professor of Epidemiology and Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Makiko Tsukada as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Nicolaos S. Tzannes as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph W. Ullman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Peter E. Veruki as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Diane P. Walker as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Steven P. Wartik as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Marsha S. Weidner as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Robert C. Wesley, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Lynn J. Wichern as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Doris Y. Wilkinson as Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Anne E. Winch as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period August 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Lloyd G. Yeich as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective June 23, 1984.Mrs. Arlene F. Yuan as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period August 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Joel Zimbelman as Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period July 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders as shown below be and they are hereby approved:a. ElectionsMs. Lillian R. BeVier as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John E. Cribbet as Frank Talbott, Jr., Visiting Professor, School of Law, effective January 16, 1985, for one semester.Mr. John J. Dorning as Whitney Stone Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective August 16, 1984.Mr. George P. Garrett as Henry Hoyns Professor of Creative Writing, College of Arts and Sciences, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Shirley M. Hufstedler as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor, School of Law, for the period September 23, 1984, through September 30, 1984.Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1984 through October 31, 1984.Mr. Douglas L. Leslie as Charles O. Gregory Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Jacob A. Lohr as McLemore Birdsong Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Antonin Scalia as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Potter Stewart as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor, School of Law, for the period October 14, 1984, through October 19, 1984.Mr. William L. Walker as T. Munford Boyd Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1984.b. Correction in the Chair Election of Mr. Samuel A. DerieuxCorrect the election of Mr. Samuel A. Derieux as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 1, 1984to read as follows:Mr. Samuel A. Derieux as Visiting Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Correction in the Chair Election of Mr. Herman H. ShugartCorrect the election of Mr. Herman H. Shugart as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 1, 1984, to read as follows:Mr. Herman H. Shugart as William W. Corcoran Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective November 1, 1984.c. Re-election of ChairholderDr. Peter J. Quesenberry, Byrd Stuart Leavell Professor of Medicine and Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.d. Leaves of Absence for ChairholdersMr. E. Ralph Biggadike, Paul M. Hammaker Professor of Business Administration, the Darden School, for the period September 1, 1984, through May 31, 1986, for personal reasons.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartifield Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985, to continue with a law firm in Washington, D. C.Mr. Sherwood C. Frey, Jr., Ethyl Corporation Professor of Business Administration, for the period January 16, 1985, through May 31, 1985, to accept a visiting professorship.Mr. John E. Gibson, Commonwealth Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to accept a visiting professorship at Kansas State University.Mr. Robert W. Haigh, Distinguished Professor of Business Administration, for an indefinite period, effective June 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. John A. C. Hetherington, David A. Harrison Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985, to do research.Mr. Charles O. Jones, Robert Kent Gooch Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.Mr. John C. McCoid, Armistead M. Dobie Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for educational leave.Mr. Roland N. McKean, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1984, through January 14, 1985, to do research.Mr. John N. Moore, Walter L. Brown Professor of Law, for the period March 19, 1984, through April 3, 1984, to participate in the U.S. delegation to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.Mr. David W. Thompson, Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984, for personal reasons.f. Resignation of ChairholderMr. Andrew P. Sage, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.g. Appointments of ChairholdersMr. John J. Dorning, Whitney Stone Professor of Nuclear Engineering, as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective August 16, 1984.Mr. Javier Herrero, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Spanish, as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, as a member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. George F. Alheid as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Wayne Maurice Alves as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph V. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. William H. Anderson, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Gary R. Atkinson as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, Roanoke Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. G. Beatrice Aton as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period August 1, 1984 through September 30, 1984.Mr. George F. Bagby as Visiting Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for the period October 1, 1984 through September 30, 1985.Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Associate Professor of Education, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Sharon J. Beckman-Rindley as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Sharon G. Berk as Research Assistant Professor in Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Bruce C. Black as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for six years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Martin E. Bloch as Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery and Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Burns as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry (Western State), for three years, effective October 1, 1984.Mr. Warren T. Byrd, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. George Cahen as Research Assistant Professor, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period January 16, 1985 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Ms. Nita S. Catterton as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Carl E. Creutz as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Terrence M. Dempsey as Assistant Professor in Continuing Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Claude Desjardins as Visiting Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period January 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985.Ms. Nancy S. Ehrenreich as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William R. Fendley as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Willard L. Fitch as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Alastair D. Fowler as Visiting Professor of English, for fall semesters, 1985-89, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Irving S. Friedman as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Charles C. Geraty, III as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Fariborz K. Ghadar as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Joseph H. Gieck as Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty and Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Jean W. Gillet as Assistant Professor of Education, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 14, 1985.Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Roy E. Graham as Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Mary A. Gunter as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Carol R. Hassler as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. David J. Hayes as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. James G. Hecker as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 16, 1984.Mr. John C. Herr as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Peter W. Heymann as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Kenneth R. Himes as Visiting Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1985.Mr. Roger G. Hood as Visiting Professor of Law, for the period September 3, 1984 through September 7, 1984, and March 18, 1985 through April 26, 1985.Mr. Jon K. Hutchison as Assistant Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Jane J. Jacobs as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Andrew M. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Gary R. Johnson as Assistant Professor in Continuing Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Michael T. Klepper as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Richard A. Lehne as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective June 1, 1984.Mr. Randal A. Lemke as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Charles D. Little as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective August 1, 1984.Ms. Elizabeth B. Lowe as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Bela C. Maday as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas A. Mason as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Frank W. McCulloch as Scholar-in-Residence, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. A. Jon Megibow as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1985.Mr. Philip L. Merkel as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Elizabeth H. Morreim as Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1984 through July 31, 1984.Dr. Steven A. Newman as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Norma D. Owens as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. George P. Paul as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1984 through February 28, 1985.Mr. Neal I. Payton as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Elliott R. Pearl as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period December 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Steven W. Peltier as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. John Ritchie, III as Scholar-in-Residence, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Mary V. Rorty as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Fred D. Rosi as Research Professor of Electrical Engineering and Materials Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Sacco as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Mohammed Sawaie as Assistant Professor of Arabic, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Thomas L. Schumacher as Associate Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. David P. Schwartz as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 16, 1984.Ms. Joanne Scott as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective June 1, 1984.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Neil McD. Shawen as Assistant Professor in Continuing Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Richard F. Shutts as Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Zengxuan Song as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period June 1, 1984 through August 19, 1984.Ms. Claudia J. Sowa as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Willis J. Spaulding as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jerome W. D. Stokes as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. George A. Stovall as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Graham B. Strong as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. William M. Sutherland as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. James L. Sutphen as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective October 1, 1984.Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr. as Associate Professor of Continuing Education General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. M. Kirk Train as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Stanley A. Vinores as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective October 16, 1984.Mr. Van Dien Westervelt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. R. Roy Whitney as Research Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Holly M. Wright as Assistant Professor of Art, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph J. Wynne as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. John J. Yazel as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1986.Mr. Mumtaz H. Zaidi as Visiting Scholar in Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. James J. Barnette from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Donald Branson from Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg to Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Philander D. Chase from Instructor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. William S. Evans from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Jay R. Heller from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine and Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Janine C. Jagger from Instructor in Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, and Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert Kemp from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Richard D. Pearson from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Jeanne M. Pietig from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Beverly H. Runge from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Gary H. Shaw from Lecturer in Business Administration to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Therese Wiedmer from Research Instructor in Pathology to Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective October 1, 1984.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Amir H. Assadi, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to do research.Ms. G. Beatrice Aton, Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period July 1, 1984 through September 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Richard J. Becherer, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to receive a Fellowship of the Cornell University's Society for the Humanities.Ms. Jeanne C. Biggar, Associate Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to do research.Ms. Carolyn Bluestine, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985, for personal reasons.Mr. Warren T. Byrd, Jr., Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to do research.Mr. Kenneth Chastain, Associate Professor of Spanish, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985, to do research.Mr. Claude Desjardins, Visiting Professor of Physiology, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985, to teach at the University of Texas at Austin.Mr. Robert Fatton, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to accept a fellowship.Mr. Michael Fowler, Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to do research.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to lecture in China, Switzerland, and England.Dr. J. Owen Hendley, Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1984, to do research.Mr. Alan B. Howard, Associate Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Paul W. Humphreys, Associate Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to do research.Ms. Petronella G. Jansen, Lecturer, Division of Continuing Education, for the period June 18, 1984 through June 29, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 31, 1985, to do research.Mr. Glenn P. Kessler, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. R. Craig Kochel, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period June 11, 1984 through July 11, 1984, to teach a course for the summer session.Ms. Jacqueline Lichtman, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period July 1, 1984 through August 15, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. David A. Martin, Associate Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1984, to do research.Mr. Scott Masten, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985, to teach at the University of Michigan.Mr. Richard C. McCarty, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, to accept a Senior Fellowship Award from the National Institute of Health.Ms. Marita P. McClymonds, Assistant Professor of Music, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to accept a research fellowship from the American Council of Learned Societies.Mr. Kevin McCrimmon, Professor of Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to do research.Ms. Mary B. McKinley, Associate Professor of French, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to continue research in France.Mr. A. Jon Megibow, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1984 through July 31, 1985, for personal reasons.Mr. Ronald Michener, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to do research at the University of California, Santa Barbara.Mr. Murray M. Milner, Associate Professor of Sociology, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to do research.Mr. S. Joe Poon, Associate Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to do research at Iowa State University.Mr. Terrance W. Pratt, Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to do research.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to begin the Semi-Retirement Plan.Mr. Armstead L. Robinson, Associate Professor of History, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985, to do research.Mr. James L. Rovnyak, Professor of Mathematics, for the period January 16, 1985 through May 31, 1985, to do research.Mr. Thomas L. Schumacher, Associate Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to be a Visiting Professor at the University of Maryland.Mr. S. Fred Singer, Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985, to be visiting Professor at George Mason University.Mr. James G. Turner, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to complete a book.Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period June 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Henry K. White, Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to accept a Visiting Professorship at California State Polytechnic University.Mr. Jon D. Whitman, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to teach in Israel.Mr. Richard G. Wilson, Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.Mr. William E. Zierden, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for the period September 1, 1984 through January 15, 1985, to teach half time in the private sector.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Ms. Melissa H. Birch from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Larry D. Bouchard from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Donald L. Burkhard from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for two years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Robert L. Carraway from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Giorgio Carta from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Maxim P. Engers from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for two years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Gary D. Fletcher from Lecturer in Physics to Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Rachel D. Fowlkes from Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Arthur E. Freedlander from Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period July 1, 1984 through December 31, 1984.Mr. Mark E. Haskins from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Lori A. Kent from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Charlotte Ku from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Ignacio-Javier Lopez from Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Dr. Sozos Papasozomenos from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for two months, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Marvin E. Perkins from Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John T. Sigmon from Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Lecturer in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Sydney S. Breese, Jr., Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective July 31, 1984. Mr. Breese has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1979.Dr. William D. Poe, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (Roanoke Program), effective April 28, 1984. Dr. Poe has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1978.Dr. William H. Robinson, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Roanoke Program), effective June 30, 1984. Dr. Robinson has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1983.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Thomas J. Aton, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Dalynn T. Badenhop, Assistant Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. William L. Breit, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Deborah A. Carver, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective September 19, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Rion A. Causey, Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective June 1, 1984, to pursue a career in research.Mr. Robert S. Chinn, Instructor in Economics, effective September 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Paula A. Ciavarella, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Ellen R. Clore, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective July 21, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Sveta Dave, Instructor in German, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Mary W. Dickie, Assistant Professor, General Faculty and Assistant Dean of the School of Law, effective July 10, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Peter W. Farrell, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective August 27, 1984, to attend George Mason University Law School.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman, Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, effective June 30, 1984, to return to full-time teaching.Ms. Marie Louise Flanagan, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective August 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Ms. Renee E. Fleming, Instructor, General Faculty, effective August 24, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Gregory R. Franchini, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective August 15, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Carl J. Friedman, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 15, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. John G. Garrard, Professor of Russian Literature, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Vivian V. Gordon, Associate Professor of Sociology, effective August 15, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Harry L. Gutman, Associate Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Robert M. Hedrick, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Robert M. Hendrickson, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Paula J. Hillard, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Daniel J. Hornbach, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Robert S. Hutcheson, Jr., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, effective December 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Ann J. Johanson, Professor of Pediatrics, effective September 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Clinton W. Kersey, Jr., Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 3, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. R. Craig Kochel, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Marianne M. Kosiewicz, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective August 10, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Kevin J. Lawrence, Lecturer in Music, part-time, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. John H. Lindgren, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1984, as he is separating from the Dean's Office only.Ms. Patricia S. Lloyd, Instructor in Education, effective May 31, 1984, to accept a full-time position.Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Joseph T. Malloy, Instructor in German, part-time, effective September 1, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. William H. McAfee, Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Margaret C. McLintock, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Nicholas H. Morgan, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective July 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Marianne Murdock, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1985, for personal reasons.Ms. Patricia O'Brien, Instructor in Nursing, effective August 12, 1984, to pursue doctoral studies at the University of Pennsylvania.Dr. Daniel G. Oshman, Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Linda Parker, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Randal L. Perry, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Robert A. Reid, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective September 30, 1984, to devote full time to the development of medical information methods.Ms. Adelle M. Renzaglia, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Richard L. Roth, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Harishankar L. Sanghi, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine/Salem, effective August 31, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Narendra C. Shah, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, effective July 6, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Calvin W. Sharpe, Assistant Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Ernst H. Soudek, Associate Professor of Humanities, effective June 30, 1984, to pursue writing and scholarly activities.Mr. John Strauss, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas J. Sullivan, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Vice President for Development and Community Relations, effective July 5, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Thomas P. Sutula, Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective January 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Randolph S. Tipps, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Issac T. Van Patten, Assistant Professor of Family Medicine (Roanoke Program), effective July 1, 1984, to accept another position.Dr. Susan Vandenberg, Clinical Instructor in Surgery (Roanoke Program), effective June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. James C. Walker, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1984, for personal reasons.Dr. Robert L. Wangelin, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. Jay Harvie Wilkinson, III, Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1984, to accept another position.Mr. William E. Zierden, Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective January 16, 1985, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Terry Appolonia as Assistant Dean of Students for Fraternities and Sororities, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Antoinette S. Arnett as Children's Medical Center Development Officer, for one year, effective July 5, 1984.Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Chairman, Department of Health and Physical Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Assistant Vice President for Personnel Administration, for three years, effective December 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas M. Broitman as Assistant Dean, School of Commerce, for three years, effective September 24, 1984.Ms. Linda K. Bunker as Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Harold J. Burbach as Associate Dean for External Relations and Faculty Affairs, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Theodore Caplow as Acting Chairman, Department of Sociology, for the period July 1, 1984 through August 10, 1984.Mr. Theodore Caplow as Chairman, Department of Sociology, for the period August 11, 1984 through August 31, 1985.Ms. Kathleen B. Fatton as Assistant to the Dean of the College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas I. Grexa as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective August 16, 1984.Mr. Gilbert Hay as Director of Administration, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period June 18, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Mr. J. Robert Henderson as Associate Vice President for Health Affairs Finance, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William E. Jackson as Acting Director, Carter G. Woodson Institute for Afro-American and African Affairs, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.Mr. John P. James as Assistant to the Provost, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Samuel B. Long, III as Director of Development, for three years, effective July 26, 1984.Mr. Phillip P. Muth as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Arthur I. Schulman as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Albert L. Shaw as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Wayne M. Sparks as Director of Financial Aid, for five years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Ronald D. Suiter as Associate Dean and Director of Development for the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective August 27, 1984.Mr. William B. Taylor as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Joseph W. Ullman as Assistant Vice President, Administrative Computing Services, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Peter E. Veruki as Director, Career Planning and Placement, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Chelsea C. White as Chairman, Department of Systems Engineering, for two years, effective June 1, 1984.Mr. Lloyd G. Yeich as Director of Corporate and Industrial Relations, for three years, effective June 23, 1984.Mr. Theo van Groll as Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Architecture, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Ralph O. Allen as Director of Environmental Health and Safety, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs, for the period July 1, 1984 through August 31, 1984.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Special Assistant to the President and Editor, Virginia Quarterly Review, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Ralph C. Bralley as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Chairman, Department of Educational Research and Evaluation, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Director, Bureau of Educational Research and Chairman, Department of Educational Research and Evaluation, for the period July 1, 1984 through August 31, 1984.Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, for the period September 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, for the period July 1, 1984 through August 31, 1984.Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Alexandria J. DeLoatch as Assistant Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for the period August 1, 1984 through July 31, 1985.Mr. William R. Fendley as Associate Director of Institutional Planning and Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. as Special Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan as Chairman, Department of Special Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Hortense B. Hinton as Associate Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for the period August 1, 1984 through July 31, 1985.Dr. Robert H. Hodge, Jr. as Medical Director of Ambulatory Care Services, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Ching-hsien Huang as Vice Chairman of the Department of Biochemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. William J. Kehoe as Associate Dean for External Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. James E. Kinard as University History Officer, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David A. Lawall as Director, Bayly Museum, for three years, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Elizabeth B. Lowe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. A. Jon Megibow as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1985.Mr. John N. Moore as Director of the Center for Oceans Law and Policy, Director of the Center for Law and National Security, and Director of the Graduate Program, School of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John J. Owen as Special Assistant to the Vice President for Development, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Thomas A. Pitt as Director of Medical Center Development, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Leah C. Puryear as Director of the Upward Bound Program, for the period June 1, 1984 through May 31, 1985.Mr. Cedric B. Rucker as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Richard F. Shutts as Director, Real Estate and Risk Management, for two years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Jerome W. Stokes as Assistant Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. George A. Stovall as Director of Institutional Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, Jr. as Associate Dean for Continuing Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Charles R. Tolbert as University Space Administrator, for the period July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1987.Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner as Director, Center for the Study of Higher Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and she is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Ms. Helen G. Burr, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1984. She has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1953.

DEATH OF MR. MILFORD H. BRYANT
------------------------------

DEATH OF DR. WOLFGANG A. WIRTH
------------------------------

RE-ELECTION OF MR. RAY C. HUNT, JR., AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., be and he is hereby re-elected as Vice President for Business and Finance, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ARNOLD H. LEON PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Arnold H. Leon Professorship in Law, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. Arnold H. Leon, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 16, 1984, through September 15, 1984, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT WITH CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Barton-Malow/CRS of Washington, D.C., a joint venture of Barton-Malow, Inc., and CRS Constructors Managers, is hereby approved as the Construction Manager for the Replacement Hospital and Related Facilities Project; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute a contract with the Construction Manager in substantially the same form as the contract and addendum which were exhibited to the meeting.(E. Massie Valentine abstained from voting.)

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN THE INTEREST RATE ON UNIVERSITY FACULTY HOME MORTGAGE LOANS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that effective immediately, the interest rate on University faculty home mortgage loans shall be increased from 11.5% to 12.5%.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed. The report shows 40 projects in planning or construction phases in the University Division, 27 in the Medical Center, and two at Clinch Valley College.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 2,514,319.75

Free Service

12,737,468.88

\--------------

Total

$15,251,788.63

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Acute -

Bad Debts

$ 70,563.33

Free Service

282,254.25

\-----------

Total Acute

$352,817.58

TB Free Service

$419,757.20

TB Free Service (Outpatient)

$ 639.05

\-----------

Total

$773,213.83

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia schedule numbers 515 through 520, and schedule numbers 524 through 526, meetings for the months of May 22, 1984, June 26, 1984, and July 31, 1984, $15,251,788.63 and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 574 through 584, meetings for the months of May 22, 1984, June 26, 1984, and July 31, 1984, totaling $773,213.83 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$ 2,514,319.75Free Service12,737,468.88--------------Total$15,251,788.63Blue Ridge Hospital:Acute -Bad Debts$ 70,563.33Free Service282,254.25-----------Total Acute$352,817.58TB Free Service$419,757.20TB Free Service (Outpatient)$ 639.05-----------Total$773,213.83 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND TECHNICON DATA SYSTEMS CORPORATION, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the Approval of Agreement Between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Technicon Data Systems Corporation, Santa Clara, California.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE EASEMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE HOME BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY AND THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee regarding the Easement Agreement Between the Home Beneficial Life Insurance Company and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, dated September 14, 1984.

ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR GILMER HALL AND MONROE HALL
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that following the recommendation of the Steering Committee of the Campaign for the University of Virginia, undesignated gifts to the University totaling $450,000 (Fund A) be designated for the addition to Gilmer Hall and undesignated gifts totaling $250,000 (Fund B) be designated for the addition to Monroe Hall;AND RESOLVED FURTHER, following the Steering Committee's recommendation, that for all additional gifts received and designated for the Monroe Hall addition between this date and December 15, 1984, a sum equaling such additional gifts be redesignated from Fund B to support the Gilmer Hall addition.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURES OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF June 30, 1984
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/83

1983-84 Expenditures

Board (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1984-85. Approved Allocations

Unexpended Balance 06/30/84

rts and Sciences

Biology

Student Support

$ 53,608.33

$ 53,150.41

$ 40,560.00

$ 41,017.92

Faculty Salary Supplement

21,034.40

29,941.56

26,140.00

17,232.84

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

139,446.59

42,520.51

40,000.00

136,926.08

$ 214,089.32

$ 125,612.48

$106,700.00

$ 195,176.84

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 36,832.96

$ 35,917.00

$ 15,000.00

$ 15,915.96

Faculty Salary Supplement

.24

\----

\----

.24

\*Research and Equipment

129,700.32

218,915.78

115,300.00

26,084.54

$ 166,533.52

$ 254,832.78

$130,300.00

$ 42,000.74

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 118,579.90

$ 91,817.47

$122,000.00

$ 148,762.43

Faculty Salary Supplement

72,867.91

67,573.05

24,000.00

29,294.86

\*Research and Equipment

2,259.01

70.51

29,000.00

31,188.50

$ 193,706.82

$ 159,461.03

$175,000.00

$ 209,245.79

Physics

Student Support

$ 27,890.83

$ 24,340.21

$ 20,000.00

$ 23,550.62

Faculty Salary Supplement

11,532.98

\----

17,500.00

29,032.98

\*Research and Equipment

230,635.98

24,338.75

(5,140.00)

201,157.23

$ 270,059.79

$ 48,678.96

$ 32,360.00

$ 253,740.83

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 107,695.64

$ 73,329.17

\----

$ 34,366.47

\*Research and Equipment

540,173.37

597,782.81

$475,015.00

417,405.56

$ 647,869.01

$ 671,111.98

$475,015.00

$ 451,772.03

$1,492,258.46

$1,259,697.23

$919,375.00

$1,151,936.23

Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950

$(1,004,686.82)

Net Balance

$ 147,249.41

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the Estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ended June 30, 1984, be and it is hereby approved:

Unexpended Balance 06/30/831983-84 ExpendituresBoard (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1984-85. Approved AllocationsUnexpended Balance 06/30/84rts and SciencesBiologyStudent Support$ 53,608.33$ 53,150.41$ 40,560.00$ 41,017.92Faculty Salary Supplement21,034.4029,941.5626,140.0017,232.84\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment139,446.5942,520.5140,000.00136,926.08$ 214,089.32$ 125,612.48$106,700.00$ 195,176.84ChemistryStudent Support$ 36,832.96$ 35,917.00$ 15,000.00$ 15,915.96Faculty Salary Supplement.24--------.24\*Research and Equipment129,700.32218,915.78115,300.0026,084.54$ 166,533.52$ 254,832.78$130,300.00$ 42,000.74MathematicsStudent Support$ 118,579.90$ 91,817.47$122,000.00$ 148,762.43Faculty Salary Supplement72,867.9167,573.0524,000.0029,294.86\*Research and Equipment2,259.0170.5129,000.0031,188.50$ 193,706.82$ 159,461.03$175,000.00$ 209,245.79PhysicsStudent Support$ 27,890.83$ 24,340.21$ 20,000.00$ 23,550.62Faculty Salary Supplement11,532.98----17,500.0029,032.98\*Research and Equipment230,635.9824,338.75(5,140.00)201,157.23$ 270,059.79$ 48,678.96$ 32,360.00$ 253,740.83School of MedicineStudent Support$ 107,695.64$ 73,329.17----$ 34,366.47\*Research and Equipment540,173.37597,782.81$475,015.00417,405.56$ 647,869.01$ 671,111.98$475,015.00$ 451,772.03$1,492,258.46$1,259,697.23$919,375.00$1,151,936.23Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950$(1,004,686.82)Net Balance$ 147,249.41

Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1984-85.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF THE BY-LAWS OF THE CLINICAL STAFF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that revised By-Laws of the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Hospital, dated July 17, 1984, be and they are hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF CONTINUATION OF PROXY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the President reconstitute the Proxy Advisory Committee as described in the Proxy Voting Policy dated June 5, 1982, for a term of one year beginning July 1, 1984.

APPROVAL OF MODIFICATION OF THE STATEMENT ON THE PATENT POLICY
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that modification of the Statement on the Patent Policy Agreement for the University of Virginia be and it is hereby approved, effective October 5, 1984.

APPROVAL OF MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1984-86 Memoranda of Understanding for the University Division, the University of Virginia Hospitals, and Clinch Valley College which are summarized in Attachment A, be and they are hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING SYSTEM REVENUE BONDS
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors at its meeting on June 1, 1984 adopted a Resolution Authorizing and Securing Student Housing System Revenue Bonds (the "Master Resolution") and a Series Resolution Authorizing and Securing Student Housing System (Variable Rate Demand) Revenue Bonds (Series 1984) (the "Series Resolution") providing for the issuance of bonds pursuant to Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), to finance student housing for 650 students, such bonds to be payable from the revenues of the Univesity's Student Housing System, and authorized the appropriate officers of the University, including the Vice President for Business and Finance, to take such further action as they considered necessary to issue such bonds; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the Master Resolution and the Series Resolution as amended, completed and restated in accordance with the terms thereof by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors at its meeting on June 27, 1984 and by the Vice President for Business and Finance, copies of both of which have been presented to this meeting (together, the "Bond Resolutions"), the University issued its $11,500,000 Student Housing System (Variable Rate Demand) Revenue Bonds (Series 1984) under the Act on August 3, 1984 (the "Bonds"); andWHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing authority, there has been prepared, and the Vice President for Business and Finance has approved, executed and delivered on behalf of the University, a Preliminary Official Statement dated July 16, 1984 (the "Preliminary Official Statement") and an Official Statement dated July 25, 1984 (the "Official Statement") relating to the offering of the Bonds; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing authority, the Vice President for Business and Finance has executed and delivered on behalf of the University a Contract of Purchase dated July 25, 1984 (the "Bond Purchase Contract") among the University, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and Goldman, Sachs and Company ("Goldman") providing for the sale of the Bonds to Goldman at a price equal to the aggregate principal amount thereof less an underwriting discount of $85,905; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing authority, the Vice President for Business and Finance has executed and delivered on behalf of the University a Reimbursement Agreement dated as of June 1, 1984 (the "Reimbursement Agreement") between the University and The Sumitomo Bank, Limited (New York Branch) (the "Bank") providing for the issuance by the Bank of its irrevocable letter of credit as security for the Bonds; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing authority, the Vice President for Business and Finance has executed and delivered on behalf of the University a Remarketing Agreement dated as of June 1, 1984 (the "Remarketing Agreement") between the University and Goldman whereby Goldman has agreed to fix the interest rate on the Bonds from time to time in accordance with prevailing market conditions and to use its best efforts to remarket any Bonds which have been tendered by the holders thereof for payment; andWHEREAS, pursuant to the foregoing authority, the Vice President for Business and Finance has executed and delivered on behalf of the University a Standby Bond Purchase Agreement dated as of June 1, 1984 (the "Standby Bond Purchase Agreement") between the University and United Virginia Bank ("UVB") whereby UVB has agreed to purchase any Bonds which are tendered by the holders for payment and are not remarketed elsewhere by Goldman; andWHEREAS, a specimen of the Bonds and copies of the Preliminary Official Statement, the Official Statement, the Bond Purchase Contract, the Reimbursement Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement and the Standby Bond Purchase Agreement as executed and delivered on behalf of the University have been presented to this meeting;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Bond Resolutions as amended, completed and restated are hereby approved and adopted.Section 2. The provisions of the Bonds, the Preliminary Official Statement, the Official Statement, the Bond Purchase Contract, the Reimbursement Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement and the Standby Bond Purchase Agreement, and their execution and delivery on behalf of the University by the Vice President for Business and Finance and, in the case of the Bonds, the Rector, are in all respects approved, ratified, and confirmed.Section 3. The execution and delivery of all certificates, instruments and documents and any and all other action taken on behalf of the University by the Vice President for Business and Finance and other appropriate officers in connection with the issuance of the Bonds is in all respects approved, ratified and confirmed.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT TO VEPCO FOR RE-ROUTING POWER LINES ON THE NORTH GROUNDS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated May 30, 1984, between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Virginia Electrical and Power Company, which grants a 15-foot easement of right-of-way to construct an electrical line across the property at the North Grounds adjacent to the Darden School owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to serve the University's property, be and it hereby is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute and deliver said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT TO VEPCO FOR INSTALLING POWER LINES AT THE VIVARIUM FARM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated September 14, 1984, between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Virginia Electrical and Power Company, which grants a 30-foot easement of right-of-way to construct an electrical line across, the property at the Vivarium Farm off Route 20 owned by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to serve the University's property, be and it hereby is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute and deliver said deed of easement.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported that for the period May 1, 1984 through June 30, 1984, $2,009,000 in private gifts had been received. In addition, $989,000 was received for research during the same period.

REPORT ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
-----------------------------------------------------

The President reported the continuing success of the Capital Campaign, which has resulted in gifts and pledges totaling $127 million as of this week. He expressed thanks to all who have worked to make the Campaign a success.

The President concluded his remarks by describing the successful area campaigns. He said that the New York Campaign event attracted 1,200 people, and that it was highly successful.

REPORT ON THE AAU SALARY SCALE
------------------------------

The President reported that each year the rankings of the 50 AAU institutions are reported to the Board with respect to faculty salaries and faculty compensation. The University of Virginia's ranking for salary has been trending downward, while its ranking for total compensation has shown significant improvement in the last three years. The 1983 figures show the University of Virginia ranking as 24th in compensation and 30th in salary. The President said that he is hopeful that it will be possible to raise salaries next year enough to make a significant improvement in our rankings.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE B.S. DEGREE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE PROGRAM AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the B.S. Degree in Computer Science Program at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved subject to final approval by the State Council of Higher Education.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS DESIGN GROUP FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE BIOLOGY GREENHOUSE PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Architects Design Group of Roanoke, Virginia, be approved for the performance of architectural design for the Biology Greenhouse project.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF CLEVELAND-SHEERAN ARCHITECTS FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE RENOVATION OF HALSEY HALL, PHASE I PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Cleveland-Sheeran Architects of Charlottesville, Virginia, be approved for the performance of architectural design for the Renovation of Halsey Hall, Phase I Project.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF CANOVA PETERSON FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE RENOVATION OF THE MOTOR POOL FACILITY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Canova Peterson of Mechanicsville, Virginia, be approved for the performance of architectural design for the renovation of the Motor Pool Facility.

AUTHORIZATION TO EXPAND THE SCOPE OF THE HISTORIC RENOVATION CORPORATION TO INCLUDE SPECIAL PURPOSE HOUSING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors created a stock corporation under Virginia law to act as General Partner in limited partnerships for renovating fraternity and sorority houses; andWHEREAS, the Historic Renovation Corporation wishes to increase the scope of its renovation projects to include special purpose housing such as language houses; andWHEREAS, the Historic Renovation Corporation wishes to act as General Partner in limited partnerships for renovating such special purpose housing;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Historic Renovation Corporation be, and it thereby is, authorized to act as a General Partner in limited partnerships renovating special purpose housing; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the University's Endowment Fund is authorized to guarantee the leasehold obligations of organizations who may lease the renovated special purpose houses from such limited partnerships, and pledge its assets for the security thereof, provided however, that such guarantees shall be limited with respect to each leasehold obligation to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).

RESOLUTION APPROVING THE PURCHASE OF A MOTOR POOL FACILITY BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE INCURRENCE OF $1,000,000 OF INSTALLMENT PURCHASE OBLIGATIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 754 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia of 1984, the General Assembly has approved the financing of the acquisition and renovation of a motor pool facility (the "Project") by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") through the issuance of revenue obligations of the University under the provisions of Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act");WHEREAS, the University, by approval of the Executive Committee of its Board of Visitors, has entered into a Real Estate Option Agreement (the "Option Agreement") dated August 6, 1984 with Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of Central Virginia (the "Seller") pursuant to which the Seller has granted the University an option, exercisable on or before December 15, 1984, to purchase certain land and improvements thereon owned by the Seller and suitable for the Project;WHEREAS, the Seller has further agreed that in the event such option is exercised it will execute and deliver, and the purchase and sale of the Project will be consummated pursuant to the terms of, the Real Estate Contract of Sale (the "Installment Sales Contract") to be dated as of January 3, 1985 and to be otherwise in the form thereof which is attached to the Option Agreement;WHEREAS, the Installment Sales Contract provides, among other things, for the payment by the University to the Seller of the principal sum of $1,000,000 in installments with interest thereon at the rate of 10% per annum from January 3, 1985 (together, the "Installment Obligations"), payable at the times on or before December 31, 1989 and from the limited sources provided therein as required by the Act;WHEREAS, copies of the Option Agreement and the Installment Sales Contract have been furnished to the Board of Visitors of the University (the "Board");WHEREAS, the University now proposes to exercise the option to purchase the Project as provided for in the Option Agreement and the Installment Sales Contract; andWHEREAS, the State Treasurer has determined that the acquisition of the Project by the University and its incurrence of the Installment Obligations upon the terms set forth in the Installment Sales Contract is financially feasible;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED:Section 1. The exercise of the option to purchase the Project and the incurrence of the Installment Obligations by the University upon the terms set forth in the Installment Sales Contract are hereby approved.Section 2. The Installment Obligations shall not be general obligations of the University, but shall be limited obligations of the University payable solely from revenues generated from auxiliary enterprises, including without limitation, student bus fees and parking income, not otherwise pledged or encumbered.Section 3. Paragraph 1(B) of the Installment Sales Contract provides that $700,000 of the Installment Obligations shall be evidenced by seven notes issued by the University, each in the amount of $100,000, dated January 3, 1985, bearing interest at 10% per annum, and payable as to principal in full on December 31, 1989 (the "Notes") subject to the right of the Seller to demand prepayment thereof in full upon 60 days written notice to the University. The Seller has agreed that in lieu of such prepayment, if requested by the University, it shall sell the Notes to the University's Endowment Fund at a price of par plus accrued and unpaid interest.Section 4. The Notes shall be signed by the manual or facsimile signature of the Rector of the University and the University's seal shall be affixed thereto or imprinted thereon and attested by the manual signature of its Secretary. The Notes shall be in such form, consistent with Section 3 hereof and the Installment Sales Contract, and shall contain such other customary provisions under the Act as shall be determined by the Rector of the University, his execution of the Notes to constitute conclusive evidence of such approval.Section 5. The Vice President for Business and Finance is hereby authorized and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the University, to execute and deliver the Installment Sales Contract and such documents, certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as he may consider necessary or desirable in connection with the purchase of the Project, the incurrence by the University of the Installment Obligations and the issuance of the Notes.Section 6. In the event the Seller demands prepayment of one or more of the Notes at any time or from time to time, the University's Endowment Fund, as and when so directed by the Vice President for Business and Finance or other appropriate official of the University, is hereby authorized and directed to purchase such Note or Notes from the Seller on or before the date specified for such prepayment. The authorization and direction provided for in this section shall be irrevocable until the Notes are paid in full.Section 7. The Executive Committee of the Board is hereby authorized and empowered to take any and all action it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Notes, the consummation of borrowings under the Installment Sales Contract and the taking of subsequent actions by the Endowment Fund to effect the purchase of the Notes in accordance with Sections 3 and 6 herein that may be deemed to require approval not previously given herein by the Board.Section 8. All covenants, obligations and agreements of the University contained or referred to in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, obligations and agreements of the University to the full extent permitted by the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. No covenant, obligation or agreement contained or referred to herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, obligation or agreement of any present or future member of the Board or any officer, agent or employee of the University in his individual capacity, and no individual executing the Installment Sales Contract or the Notes shall be liable personally on the Installment Obligations or the Notes or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof. No officer, agent or employee of the University shall incur any personal liability in acting or proceeding or in not acting or not proceeding, in good faith, reasonably and in accordance with the terms of this resolution.Section 9. In accordance with the Act, the Governor of Virginia is hereby requested to approve the execution of the Installment Sales Contract and the issuance of the Notes by the University pursuant to this resolution.Section 10. This resolution shall be effective immediately, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia as set forth in the preceding section hereof.

APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS; PLEDGING TO THE PAYMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL OF AND THE INTEREST ON SUCH BONDS THE REVENUES OF THE HOSPITAL AS PROVIDED HEREIN; AND SETTING FORTH THE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE HOLDERS OF SUCH BONDS.WHEREAS, by Article 2, Chapter 9, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, there is created a corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "University"), which University is governed by a Board of Visitors (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board") andWHEREAS, by Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended (hereinafter sometimes called the "Act"), the University is classified as an educational institution, is declared to be a public body and is constituted a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; andWHEREAS, by virtue of the Act, the University with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, is authorized and empowered(a) to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University, including, without limitation, administration, teaching, lecture and exhibition halls, libraries, dormitories, student apartments, faculty dwellings, dining halls, cafeterias, snack bars, laundries, hospitals, laboratories, research centers, infirmaries, field houses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, student unions, recreation centers, stadiums, athletic facilities, garages, parking facilities, warehouses and storage buildings, book and student supplies centers and all buildings, land and any other appurtenances and equipment necessary or desirable in connection therewith or incidental thereto,(b) to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any of such purposes, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Treasury Board") and to be payable only from any one or more of the revenue sources provided therefor in the Act and pledged for their payment, and(c) to fix and revise from time to time and to charge and collect(i) fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of each project for which bonds are issued and increases in fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of any existing facilities at the University, and(ii) fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of any existing facilities at the University,and to pledge the same to payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds; andWHEREAS, the Board has determined to provide for the issuance of bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds, with any other available funds, to finance the cost of constructing and equipping a hospital to replace the existing University of Virginia Hospital, renovating the existing hospital, constructing additional parking facilities and enlarging, improving and expanding the power plant and other portions of the existing hospital (collectively, the "Project"); andWHEREAS, the Board has determined to provide for the issuance from time to time of additional bonds of the University for the purpose of providing funds for paying all or part of the cost of constructing or acquiring any additional hospital facilities or any part thereof and any additions, extensions and improvements to the Hospital as hereinafter defined; andWHEREAS, there have been presented to the Board by officials of the University a plan of finance for providing funds for costs of the Project and related documents, all of which have been filed in the records of the Board; now, therefore,BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:1. AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS. The Board hereby authorizes, pursuant to the Act, the issuance, execution and sale of Bonds of the University (the "Bonds") to finance costs of the Project (including the funding of interest, reserves and costs of issuance) and pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Act hereby provides that the terms and conditions of the Bonds shall be specified by the Executive Committee of the Board ("the Executive Committee") subject to the following limitations:a. Maximum principal amount: $150,000,000.b. Maturity: On any date not later than December 1, 2024.c. Interest rate: Any fixed or variable rate not to exceed 15% (other than Bonds held by a bank pursuant to any credit facility agreement in which case the Bonds may bear interest at the prime rate fixed by such bank, plus, in certain circumstances, a penalty rate not exceeding 2% per annum).d. Number of series: One or more not to exceed four.e. Date of Bonds: Any date not later than March 1, 1985.f. Interest payment dates: On any date not more frequently than monthly.g. Denominations: Any multiple of $1,000.h. Form of Bonds: Registeredi. Execution; Medium and Place of Payment: As approved by the Executive Committee consistent with the laws of the Commonwealth.j. Redemption: On any date approved by the Executive Committee with a premium not to exceed 4%.k. Sale price: At least par minus (1) a bond discount to underwriters not to exceed 3 1/2%, plus (2) a discount to investors not to exceed 2%.l. Amount of bond proceeds used to purchase bond insurance, letters of credit and other credit enhancements: Not more than 6% of original principal amount of Bonds.m. Security: Any revenues of the University of Virginia Hospitals that can be pledged under the laws of the Commonwealth plus the pledge of funds, the entering into covenants and the making of other provisions as may be approved by the Executive Committee and are permissible under the laws of the Commonwealth.2. Authorization of Resolutions. The Board hereby authorizes the Executive Committee (a) to adopt a master resolution and appropriate series resolutions in the forms submitted to the Board at this meeting or such other forms approved by the Executive Committee consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph 1 above and (b) to execute and deliver such other documents, including reimbursement agreements with one or more foreign or domestic banking institutions, agreements with one or more bond insurers and agreements with one or more agents for the remarketing of bonds, and take such action as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds.3. Authorization to Officers. The Board hereby authorizes all officers and employees of the University to take all action necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance or sale of the Bonds as may be approved by the Rector, President, Vice President for Business and Finance or Assistant Vice President for Finance.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Harold L. Clary as Instructor in Physical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Deborah H. Frazier as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 12, 1984, through June 30, 1985.Mr. William D. Impey as Associate Professor of Education, for the period August 1, 1984, through June 30, 1987.Mr. Wayne E. Smith as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Robin P. Benke as Assistant Professor, Library Science, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Charles D. Bentley as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Walter C. Crouse as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Charles E. Hegji as Assistant Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Roger D. Irle as Associate Professor of Sociology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Dana G. Kilgore as Assistant Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Bill J. Lee as Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Lana W. Low as Associate Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Colby F. McLemore as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. David L. Rouse as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Garrett W. Sheldon as Assistant Professor of Political Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Patrick W. Smith as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1984.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Carol L. Almond, Instructor, and Physical Education and Women's Basketball Coach, effective August 3, 1984, to accept another position.Ms. Nancy C. Dickenson, Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, effective July 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Gerald A. Newland, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1984, for personal reasons.Mr. Barry S. Rosenberg, Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, effective June 30, 1984, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William D. Impey as Chairman, Division of Education and Psychology, for one year, effective August 1, 1984.Mr. Wayne E. Smith as Associate Director of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. James R. Baird as Chairman, Division of Mathematics and Science and the Department of Biology, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Robin P. Benke as Acting Director, Library Services, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Sandra C. Birchfield as Director of Admissions, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Guy V. Briggs as Assistant Director, Continuing and Cooperative Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Ms. Sheila B. Cox as Director of Student Financial Aid, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Van W. Daniel, III as Chairman, Department of Physical Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. David M. Donathan as Chairman, Department of Performing Arts, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Chairman, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Ms. Bonnie P. Elosser as Dean of Students, Clinch Valley College, for three years, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Director, Continuing and Cooperative Education, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Colby F. McLemore as Manager, Computer Services, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Richard H. Peake as Chairman, Humanities Division and Department of English, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo as Chairman, Department of Foreign Languages, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Barry S. Rosenberg as Associate Director of Admissions, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. Leo S. Willis as Chairman, Department of History and Philosophy, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 1, 1984.Mr. Peter S. Yun as Chairman, Division of Professional and Social Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT AUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDINGUNIVERSITY DIVISIONPROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS:AGENCY OPERATING IMPROVEMENTS:UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITALSPROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS:AGENCY OPERATING IMPROVEMENTS:CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEPROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS:AGENCY OPERATING IMPROVEMENTS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Governor Charles S. Robb directed all state agencies and institutions to develop memoranda of understanding for the 1984-86 biennium. Memoranda of Understanding for University of Virginia agencies are signed by the Governor, the Secretary of Education, the Rector of the University, and the President of the University.

The Memoranda of Understanding for University agencies include commitments to comply with all pertinent statutes and acts, maintain equal opportunity programs, improve efficiencies of operations, render essential services consistent with institutional missions, and report operating results on an annual basis. Key commitments applicable to the three divisions of the University are outlined below:

1\. Commitment to objectives set forth in the University's 1984-86 Program Proposal.

2\. Commitment to continue the review and evaluation of primary and support programs and complete an institutional self study as required by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.

3\. Commitment to place emphasis on cooperative programs with industry and other institutions of higher education.

4\. Commitment to actively recruit minority students and enter into stronger cooperative efforts with high schools in Virginia to improve the overall quality of secondary education.

1\. Commitment to employment levels for State educational and general and auxiliary enterprise activities of 3547 FTE employees in 1984-85 and 3546 FTE employees in 1985-86 compared with 3520 FTE in 1983-84.

2\. Commitment to continue the ongoing planning process and place emphasis on the accomplishment of component plans in areas which include but are not limited to administrative computing, "time-income tradeoff", cooperative financing programs, and energy conservation which will lead to improved efficiencies in and effectiveness of operations.

3\. Commitment to explore with central State agencies, opportunities for electronic transmission of data and decentralization of administrative services.

1\. Commitment to provide inpatient services to approximately 25,100 patients and over 210,000 patient days each fiscal year.

2\. Commitment to proceed with the replacement hospital project and to make physical improvements to the existing hospitals to improve efficiencies of operations and more adequately meet patient needs.

3\. Commitments to specific levels of ambulatory care services, educational support, and other services as set forth in detailed schedules included in the Memorandum of Understanding.

4\. Commitment to accomplish the planning and preparation necessary to accomplish full accreditation (three years) by the JCAH.

1\. Commitment to implement major portions of the Hospital Information System.

2\. Commitment to implement revised indigent care guidelines as provided by the 1984-86 Appropriations Act and meet indigent care reporting requirements imposed by the State.

3\. Commitment to making more efficient use of space at Blue Ridge Hospital to support the needs of the entire medical center.

4\. Commitment to a series of actions designed to improve operations including but not limited to establishing and refining performance standards, monitoring and controlling employment, utilizing enhanced budget and performance review procedures, and implementation of expanded automation.

1\. Commitment to objectives set forth in the College's 1984-86 Program Proposal.

2\. Commitment to evaluate the effectiveness of student financial assistance and physical plant programs.

1\. Commitment to employment levels for State educational and general and auxiliary enterprise activities of 125.5 FTE employees in 1984-85 and 125.5 FTE employees in 1985-86 compared with 139.8 FTE in 1983-84.

2\. Commitment to make the computer service operations of the College more efficient and economical and to improve the delivery of these services.

UVA Budget and Planning September 12, 1984
