---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1989'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1989) May 23, 1989
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 23, 1989

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES - TENTATIVE Subject to the Approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 23, 1989
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:00 a.m., in Open Session on May 22, 1989, in the Southwest Virginia Center, Abingdon, Virginia, with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., President Robert M. O'Neil, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Edward E. Elson, Waller H. Horsley, Glynn D. Key, Lemuel E. Lewis, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, James L. Trinkle, Edgar N. Weaver, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., Charles L. Brown, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, James J. Mingle, Paul R. Gross and Marion B. Peavey were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:25 p.m., in Open Session on May 23, 1989, in the Chapel at Clinch Valley College, Wise, Virginia, with the following persons present: Rector Joshua P. Darden, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Waller H. Horsley, Glynn D. Key, Lemuel E. Lewis, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, James L. Trinkle, Edgar N. Weaver, and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Absent: Charles L. Brown, William M. Camp, Jr., Edward E. Elson, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 31, 1989, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 2:25 p.m., on May 23, 1989.

The Rector extended thanks, on behalf of the Board of Visitors to Chancellor Jimmy Knight, of Clinch Valley College, for the warm hospitality that the Clinch Valley College staff has shown to the Board.

The Rector then presented a token of appreciation to Mrs. Jeanne Bailes, who made the arrangements for the meeting in Southwest Virginia, noting that she had worked for several months to insure the success of the meeting.

The Rector also expressed appreciation to Mrs. George Cochran for her participation in arranging for hospitality for the Board during this the first meeting of the Board to be held away from Charlottesville since the University gave up the governance of Mary Washington College.

ELECTION OF LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE, JR., AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., was selected as the Vice President for Business and Finance by the Finance Committee on May 9, 1989. The Finance Committee was authorized to make the selection by a resolution adopted by the Board on March 31, 1989.

The Board of Visitors by unanimous vote confirmed that selection by electing Mr. Sandridge as Vice President for Business and Finance, effective September 1, 1989.

ELECTIONS
---------

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. RUSSELL B. MCKELWAY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MS. VICKI J. CREWS-BEHR
----------------------------------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. RIZWAN UDDIN
------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

CANCELLATION OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. BRYAN PFAFFENBERGER
--------------------------------------------------------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MS. MINA H. BRAUN
--------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE OF TITLE OF MARION B. PEAVEY
---------------------------------------------------

The President announced that Marion B. Peavey will resign as Vice President for Development and University Relations, effective July 1, 1989, but will remain as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, through December 31, 1990.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE OF TITLE OF PAUL R. GROSS
------------------------------------------------

The President announced that Paul R. Gross will resign as Vice President and Provost, and as Robert C. Taylor Professor of Biology and Physiology, to assume the position of Director, Center for Advanced Studies, effective August 31, 1989; and

The President recommended that Paul R. Gross be elected as University Professor of Life Sciences, effective September 1, 1989, without term. The Board approved the President's recommendation.

ELECTION OF ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS ACTING VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT AND UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION NAMING THE AEROMATH BUILDING OLSSON HALL
---------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HENRY L. KINNIER PROFESSORSHIP IN CIVIL ENGINEERING
------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GEORGE R. MINOR PROFESSORSHIP IN GENERAL THORACIC SURGERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GENENTECH PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRICS
----------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE C. COLEMAN MCGEHEE EMINENT SCHOLARS RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN BANKING AND COMMERCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RAMON W. BREEDEN, SR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN THE MCINTIRE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT F. VANDELL RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN THE COLGATE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RENAMING THE JOHN V. RAY PROFESSORSHIP, THE JOHN V. RAY RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. CLAYTON EDWARD WILHITE TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
-------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTION OF MR. HOWARD W. MCCALL, JR., TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTION OF DR. EDGAR N. WEAVER TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
---------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE MEDICAL CENTER ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$1,422,008.64

Indigent Care

6,697,430.04

\---------------

Total

$8,119,438.68

APPROVAL OF THE 1989-90 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1989-90 BUDGET FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1989-90 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE MEDICAL CENTER ROOM RATES
-----------------------------------------

1988-89

PERCENT OF INCREASE

AMOUNT OF INCREASE

RATE PROPOSED 1989-90

SEMI-PRIVATE

$297.00

9.0%

$27.00

$324.00

INTENSIVE CARE

$622.00

$56.00

$678.00

AND OTHER SPECIAL

to

9.0%

to

to

CARE UNITS

$1,364.00

$123.00

$1,487.00

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------

Library Fines and Charges

$ 6,667

Parking and Transportation Fines and Charges

$14,605

Uncollectible Advances to Former Employees

$ 6,274

Tuition and Fees

$ 362

University Student Loans

$ 1,030

Federal Student Loans

$ 285

Other Charges

$ 3,190

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA POWER ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR POTOMAC EDISON COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED IN CLARKE COUNTY, STATE OF VIRGINIA
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR CHESAPEAKE AND POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED IN CLARKE COUNTY, STATE OF VIRGINIA
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER CONTRACT WITH FIRMS SELECTED TO SUPPLY ADDITIONAL DATA PROCESSING HARDWARE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF WALKER PARKING CONSULTANTS/ENGINEERS IN ASSOCIATION WITH CHANCE MANAGEMENT ADVISORS, FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF A PRE-PLANNING STUDY FOR THE CENTRAL GROUNDS PARKING FACILITY AND OUTSIDE UTILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ARCHITECTURAL SELECTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENTS OF HOSPITAL FACILITIES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect a comprehensive student fee for full-time equivalent students and (b) pledges such fee to the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project; provided that the current expenses of operating the Project (the "Current Expenses") shall be a first charge on such fee. The Board further covenants that such fee will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues therefrom, after payment of Current Expenses, will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project as and when the same become due, and to pay debt service on any outstanding obligations, if any, that have been previously issued which are secured by the fee pledged herein, that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project to be secured on a parity with such obligations. Any such fees in excess of the amounts required for the payment of Current Expenses, the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project when due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by the fee pledged herein may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.

Section 2. It is hereby found, determined, and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the University as shown on Exhibit A hereto, the anticipated net revenues received from the fee pledged above will be sufficient to pay Current Expenses, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project as the same become due, and debt service on any outstanding obligations which are secured by the fee pledged herein, so long as (i) the effective true interest cost on the Bonds does not exceed 9.5% per annum, and (ii) the aggregate amount of debt service actually payable in any bond year and all bond years on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project does not exceed the estimated aggregate amount of debt service for the corresponding year as shown on Exhibit A, unless the Vice President for Business and Finance provides the Governor and the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia with satisfactory evidence that the fee pledged in Section 1 above will also be sufficient to pay the additional amount of actual debt service which for any bond year(s) exceeds the estimated amount shown on Exhibit A.

Section 3. The Board covenants that so long as the Bonds are outstanding, the University will pay to the Treasurer of Virginia not less than 30 days before each interest or principal and interest payment date, the amount certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to be due and payable on such date as principal and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the Project.

Section 4. The Board covenants that the University will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds all as certified by the Treasurer of Virginia to the University.

Section 5. The Board covenants that the University within six months of the date of the issuance of the Bonds will spend all of the proceeds derived from the sale of that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project for costs associated with the Project. The Board further covenants that the University, either alone or in conjunction with the Treasurer of Virginia, will, to the extent permitted by Virginia law, take all other actions necessary to maintain the exemption of interest on the Bonds from gross income under Federal and Virginia law and, unless advised in writing by bond counsel for the issuance of the Bonds that such compliance is not necessary in order to maintain such exemption, to comply with the provisions contained in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, relating to tax-exempt obligations including without limitation (a) refunding any obligations previously issued to finance the Project within 30 days of the issuance of the Bonds (unless the Treasurer of Virginia permits a longer period of time), and (b) paying any required rebate to the United States, all as may be directed by the Treasurer of Virginia.

Section 6. The Board covenants that for so long as the Bonds are outstanding the University will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity other than a governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project, without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasurer of Virginia and bond counsel for the issuance of the Bonds.

RECOMMENDATION OF CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN SPECIAL PURPOSE RESEARCH AND PUBLIC SERVICE CENTERS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF PROPOSALS FOR COMMONWEALTH CENTERS IN NEW ELECTRONIC MATERIALS AND DEVICES AND IN GENETICS AND DEVELOPMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1988-89 and 1989-90 BUDGETS OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF CONTINUATION OF PROXY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------

DISCUSSION OF EXTENDED MEETING SCHEDULE
---------------------------------------

Discussion of the Board's meeting schedule revealed that our regular two day meetings often fail to meet their objectives because there is not sufficient time to discuss important issues in depth. It was the consensus of the meeting that the October 1989 and January 1990 meeting should begin at mid-day Wednesday and conclude on Friday afternoon. After this, the Board will determine whether or not an extended meeting schedule should regularly be scheduled.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that private gifts to the University made the past year a "banner year" with gifts up 16% over the previous year. He also reported a sharp increase in grants and contracts to $67 million. The Board voted to receive the gifts, grants and contracts.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that the University division is undertaking construction valued at $111 million, with one third of the funds coming from the Commonwealth. The hospital division has construction projects valued at $230 million, with 10% from the state. Clinch Valley College has projects valued at $5.5 million, all funded by the state.

APPROVAL OF SALARY INCREASES FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND THE CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Salary increases were authorized for both the President and for the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF RTKL ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF PLANNING STUDIES, PRE-PLANNING STUDIES AND PRELIMINARY ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE MODERNIZATION OF HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER FACILITIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS IN ONE OR MORE SERIES IN AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $142,795,000 AND EMPOWERING THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS AND THE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH1. AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS.2. AUTHORIZATION OF RESOLUTIONS.3. AUTHORIZATION TO OFFICERS.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board hereby authorizes the Executive Committee (a) to adopt one or more appropriate series resolutions in substantially the form submitted to the Board at this meeting or such other forms approved by the Executive Committee consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in Paragraph 1 above and (b) to execute and deliver such other documents, including reimbursement agreements with one or more foreign or domestic banking institutions, agreements with one or more bond insurers, and an escrow deposit agreement with Signet Trust Company (the legal successor to Bank of Virginia Trust Company) and/or the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and take such action as may be necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds.

The Board hereby authorizes all officers and employees of the University to take all action necessary or desirable in connection with the issuance or sale of the Bonds as may be approved by the Rector, President or Vice President for Business and Finance.

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE GUIDELINES FOR STUDENT ACTIVITIES CURRENT FUND ALLOCATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE TO ENTER INTO A COAL MINING CONTRACT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TERMINATION OF COMPENSATION PLAN
--------------------------------

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO THE SOUTHWEST VIRGINIA CENTER AND TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTION
-----------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

RETIREMENT
----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THREE NEW MEMBERS OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION OF CONGRATULATIONS TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:55 p.m.

RCB: jb

Exhibit AUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CONSTRUCTION - STUDENT HEALTH FACILITY 20 YEAR SCHEDULE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interest Rate

9.50%

Year

Principal Balance

Interest Payment

Principal Payment

P & I Payment

110% Coverage

1,300,000.00

1

1,275,980.30

123,500.00

24,019.70

147,519.70

162,271.67

2

1,249,678.72

121,218.13

26,301.58

147,519.70

162,271.67

3

1,220,878.50

118,719.48

28,800.23

147,519.70

162,271.67

4

1,189,342.25

115,983.46

31,536.25

147,519.70

162,271.67

5

1,154,810.06

112,987.51

34,532.19

147,519.70

162,271.67

6

1,116,997.31

109,706.96

37,812.75

147,519.70

162,271.67

7

1,075,592.35

106,114.74

41,404.96

147,519.70

162,271.67

8

1,030,253.92

102,181.27

45,338.43

147,519.70

162,271.67

9

980,608.34

97,874.12

49,645.58

147,519.70

162,271.67

10

926,246.43

93,157.79

54,361.91

147,519.70

162,271.67

11

866,720.13

87,993.41

59,526.29

147,519.70

162,271.67

12

801,538.84

82,338.41

65,181.29

147,519.70

162,271.67

13

730,165.33

76,146.19

71,373.51

147,519.70

162,271.67

14

652,011.33

69,365.71

78,154.00

147,519.70

162,271.67

15

566,432.70

61,941.08

85,578.63

147,519.70

162,271.67

16

472,724.11

53,811.11

93,708.60

147,519.70

162,271.67

17

370,113.19

44,908.79

102,610.91

147,519.70

162,271.67

18

257,754.24

35,160.75

112,358.95

147,519.70

162,271.67

Interest Rate9.50%YearPrincipal BalanceInterest PaymentPrincipal PaymentP & I Payment110% Coverage1,300,000.0011,275,980.30123,500.0024,019.70147,519.70162,271.6721,249,678.72121,218.1326,301.58147,519.70162,271.6731,220,878.50118,719.4828,800.23147,519.70162,271.6741,189,342.25115,983.4631,536.25147,519.70162,271.6751,154,810.06112,987.5134,532.19147,519.70162,271.6761,116,997.31109,706.9637,812.75147,519.70162,271.6771,075,592.35106,114.7441,404.96147,519.70162,271.6781,030,253.92102,181.2745,338.43147,519.70162,271.679980,608.3497,874.1249,645.58147,519.70162,271.6710926,246.4393,157.7954,361.91147,519.70162,271.6711866,720.1387,993.4159,526.29147,519.70162,271.6712801,538.8482,338.4165,181.29147,519.70162,271.6713730,165.3376,146.1971,373.51147,519.70162,271.6714652,011.3369,365.7178,154.00147,519.70162,271.6715566,432.7061,941.0885,578.63147,519.70162,271.6716472,724.1153,811.1193,708.60147,519.70162,271.6717370,113.1944,908.79102,610.91147,519.70162,271.6718257,754.2435,160.75112,358.95147,519.70162,271.67
