---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1991'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 1, 1991
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session on Thursday, January 31, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., and Elizabeth D. Morie. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, and Hugh P. Kelly were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:30 p.m., in Open Session on Friday, February 1, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Don E. Detmer, and Hugh P. Kelly were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing investment strategies with the University investment managers relating to University Endowment Funds, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing capital fundraising plans, strategies and activities, including identification of prospective donors, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:30 p.m., on February 1, 1991.

STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT
--------------------------

The President reported that the rough draft of the Ten-Year Academic Plan will be presented to the Board at the March 1991 meeting.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Manuel Aguilar as Instructor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective November 1, 1990.Ms. Jann T. Balmer as Instructor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 4, 1990.Mr. Christopher Barton as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991.Mr. Joseph D. Bazan as Lecturer, General Faculty, Medical Center, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Mr. David J. Burger as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Instructor, General Faculty, for five years, effective December 3, 1990.Mr. Ronald D. Carter as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Bien D. Chiang as Lecturer in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Georgia H. Childress as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective November 26, 1990.Ms. Lynda F. Clendenning as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.Dr. G. Rees Cosgrove as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Ms. Marilu Dixon as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Mark S. Doherty as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.Dr. Frank A. England as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.Mr. Michael S. Fenster as Instructor in Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Elizabeth P. Harper as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.Dr. Gary J. Harpold as Assistant Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.Dr. Harvey N. Himel as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Annelle V. Hodges as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Ms. Susan G. Huffman as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. William D. Jonsen as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Dr. James R. Kerrigan as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Dr. Jun Kim as Visiting Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period December 1, 1990 through March 31, 1991.Mr. Kenneth J. Kress as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Mr. Richard B. Laurance as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.Mr. Kevin S. Lee as Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.Ms. Karen S. Leibert as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Mr. Jonathan M. Lord as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.Ms. Joyce F. MacDonald as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective November 16, 1990.Dr. John C. Marshall as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 1, 1991.Ms. Paula D. McClain as Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Janelle A. Molloy as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1990.Mr. Brendan P. Mullan as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Anne Perotin-Dumon as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Ms. Judith M. Reagan as Lecturer in Drama, for one semester, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Juanita Reigle as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Claudio Santangelo as Lecturer in Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Stephen H. Sprigle as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Jamie B. Townsend as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.Dr. Bhairvi K. Trivedi as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period August 1, 1990 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Leah C. Wacksman as Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period November 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Dr. Eileen Watson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 1, 1990.Mr. Albert Whalley as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.Ms. Brenda L. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1993.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of ChairholdersMr. Roger Chevalier as W. H. Vanderbilt Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $75,000.Mr. Mark R. Eaker as Robert F. Vandell Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1990, at an annual salary of $104,300.Mr. Michael Fowler as Commonwealth Professor of Physics, effective January 1, 1991, at an annual salary of $102,500.Mr. Thomas F. Gallagher as Jesse W. Beams Professor of Physics, effective January 1, 1991, at an academic year salary of $76,000.Mr. Georce M. Hornberger as Distinguished Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $70,000.Mr. Rudy Hunziker as Harry Shure Visiting Professor of Architecture, for the period October 25, 1990 through December 31, 1990, at a salary of $19,380.SKETCH: Born October 14, 1946, Lugano, Switzerland. Lugano Technical University: Diploma in Architecture, 1972; Visiting Professor, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 1980-90; Private Practice: 1979-90.Mr. Dell H. Hymes as Commonwealth Professor of Anthropology and Commonwealth Professor of English, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $98,500.Dr. Eric W. Lothman as Eugene Meyer, III, Professor of Neuroscience, effective October 1, 1990.Dr. John C. Marshall as Arthur and Margaret Ebbert Professor of Medical Science, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. Carl W. Stenberg, III as Distinguished Professor for the Director of the Center for Public Service, effective September 1, 1990, at an annual salary of $112,400.Mr. Henry M. Wilbur as Commonwealth Professor of Biology and Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 1, 1991, at an annual salary of $106,700.SKETCH: Born January 25, 1944, Bridgeport, Connecticut. Duke University: B.S., 1966; University of Michigan: Ph.D., 1971; Fellow, University of Michigan: 1971-73; Assistant Professor/Associate Professor/Professor, Duke University: 1973-90.(b) Re-elections of ChairholdersMr. Murray H. Finley as Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Frederick D. Nichols as Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.(c) Leave of Absence of ChairholdersMr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.Mr. Murray H. Finley, Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Professor of Business Administration, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons.(d) Special Salary Action for ChairholdersMr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $105,000.Mr. Edmund W. Kitch, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $121,600.Mr. Saul Levmore, Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law and Professor of Law, effective December 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $85,500.Mr. J. James Murray, Jr., Samuel Miller Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1989, at an annual salary of $73,800.(e) Resignation of ChairholderMr. David L. Clark, William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.Ms. Arlene Aveno as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Timothy P. Bender as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. Stuart S. Berr as Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective October 1, 1990.Dr. Edward H. Bertram, III as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Gregg D. Bleam as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Linda K. Blum as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Bing Cai as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.Mr. Robert W. Collin as Assistant Professor of Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Patricia F. Coopersmith as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective October 1, 1990.Ms. Jonquil D. Feldman as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.Mr. Michael L. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Susan D. Fraiman as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John W. Frick as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Nancy J. Gansneder as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Patricia A. Gill as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. R. Sergio Guglielmi as Lecturer in Psychology and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Martin A. Hoard as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for the period December 1, 1990 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Laura C. Huang as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Visiting Professor of Architectural History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Mr. Benjamin R. Jacobson as Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 9, 1990.Ms. Judith A. Kinnard as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Daria Kiselica as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period February 1, 1991 through January 31, 1994.Mr. Arthur W. Lichtenberger as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Larry L. Lowe as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period November 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990.Mr. Joseph N. Mait as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 16, 1991.Mr. Hugo A. Massaldi as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period November 15, 1990 through May 14, 1991.Ms. Janice L. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Mr. Kenneth Morgan as Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective December 15, 1990.Ms. Rachel Most as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Kwong-Tai Ng as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.Ms. Deborah W. Parker as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Karen V. Parshall as Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Nancy Perdue as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Christine M. Peterson as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective August 16, 1990.Mr. Dinko Pocanic as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Prem veer Gujja Reddy as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 15, 1990.Ms. Emilie F. Rissman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth P. Rosenblum as Research Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Helmy M. Siragy as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period October 1, 1990 through March 31, 1992.Mr. Bryan L. Spangelo as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1990.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. William R. Stewart, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period October 1, 1990 through November 30, 1991.Ms. June L. Triplett as Visiting Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Dean L. Urban as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.Mr. Paul Vanden Bout as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. George B. Vaughan as Visiting Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.Mr. Stanley A. Vinores as Research Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Dr. Frederic B. Walker, IV as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1990.Mr. Dingying Wei as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990.Dr. Maryanne D. Williams as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective November 1, 1990.Dr. Barbara B. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective September 16, 1990.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Bennett I. Bertenthal, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to do research.Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. James G. Clawson, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.Mr. Lionel R. Duisit, Associate Professor of French, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, for educational purposes.Mr. Maxim P. Engers, Associate Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, to do research.Ms. Marjorie A. Flavin, Associate Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 24, 1991, with pay, for medical reasons.Ms. Patricia A. Gill, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Paul E. Gold, Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Ms. Janice L. Knight, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1990 through September 30, 1990, with partial pay, to accept a fellowship at Harvard University.Mr. P. David Kovacs, Professor of Classics, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to do research.Ms. Suzanne Louis, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 15, 1991, with partial pay, to pursue masters degree.Mr. Stewart C. Malone, Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. Worthy N. Martin, Associate Professor of Computer Science, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Ms. Jennie L. Moody, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1990 through October 31, 1990, without pay, because of delay in grant funding.Mr. Peter Onuf, Professor of History, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1990 through October 31, 1991, with pay, to do research.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, because of insufficient research grant funds.Mr. Steven E. Rhoads, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, to complete work on a book.Mr. Richard Rorty, University Professor of Philosophy, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to accept a grant.Mr. Larry J. Sabato, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.Mr. John T. Sigmon, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period November 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to be consultant for the Committee on Science, Space and Technology, United States House of Representatives.Mr. S. Fred Singer, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. John E. Travers, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for the period August 26, 1990 through November 26, 1990, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.Mr. Dean L. Urban, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991, without pay, because of deficiency in research funding.Dr. Maryanne D. Williams, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period September 1, 1990 through September 18, 1990, without pay, for personal reasons.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Ian Ayres from Visiting Associate Professor of Law to Research Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. James R. Barrett from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, effective the period October 1, 1990 through August 31, 1991.Ms. Sarah M. Corse from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology to Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective January 16, 1991.Dr. Frank Fodor from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Southwestern State Hospital to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Catawba Hospital, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.Mr. Eric H. Maslen from Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Ake Mattsson from Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, DeJarnette Center to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period November 21, 1989 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Susan E. Perry from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective October 1, 1990.Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky from Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Scott W. Sautter from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. David G. White from Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one year, effective January 16, 1991.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Margaret A. Aycock, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective January 5, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Gary Dicovitsky, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 4, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. W. Keith Dockery, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, effective December 13, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Jingchang Dong, Visiting Scholar in Biomedical Engineering, effective August 31, 1990, to become a student at George Mason University.Dr. Ramesh D. Doshi, Assistant Professor of Radiology, Salem Program, effective August 26, 1990, for personal reasons.Dr. Joseph P. Dutkowsky, Assistant Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, effective September 30, 1990, to accept another job.Dr. Robert D. Ferguson, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective September 30, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. John P. Headrick, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective October 2, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Donald L. Kaiser, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1990, for personal reasons.Dr. Thomas M. Kayrouz, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, effective October 20, 1990, to accept another position.Dr. Nicholas J. Lenn, Professor of Neurology and Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Peter A. Lichtenberg, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Richard H. Lindemann, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective February 1, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Jacob A. Lohr, Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Theodore E. Mifflin, Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Peter L. Munger, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective November 30, 1990, to accept another position.Dr. Daniel J. Pambianco, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1990, to accept a non-salaried position with the Department of Internal Medicine.Mr. Marion B. Peavey, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.Mr. Theodore M. Porter, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Melinda L. Reardon, Instructor in Education, effective August 20, 1990, for personal reasons.Ms. Nancy Sacks, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective September 17, 1990, for personal reasons.Ms. Ellen P. Soroka, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1990, for personal reasons.Mr. Terry A. Thorkildson, Associate Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective February 20, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Gerald Wallace, Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1990, to accept another position.Ms. Margot L. White, Clinical Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, effective September 30, 1990, to accept a position as Assistant Professor in the Department of Internal Medicine.Ms. Mary L. Wicker, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective October 16, 1990, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Chair, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, School of Education, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1993Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Associate Dean for External Relations and Faculty Development, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Joyce A. Feucht-Haviar as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.Mr. Jay Hirsh as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992Mr. Robert J. Huskey as Interim Dean of Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990Ms. Rebecca D. Kneedler as Chair, Department of Curriculum, Instruction, and Special Education, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. John C. Marshall as Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine, for five years, effective January 1, 1991.Mr. William R. Pinch as Assistant Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.Dr. Karen S. Rheuban as Associate Dean for Continuing Medical Education, for three years, effective October 16, 1990.Ms. Patricia M. Spacks as Chairman, Department of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. S. Kent Dohrman as Assistant Vice President for Auxiliary Services, for the period October 30, 1990 through October 31, 1991Mr. Charles T. Gillet as Assistant Vice President for Finance, for three years, effective October 1, 1990.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson, Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1991Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chair, Department of Human Services, School of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chair, Department of Educational Studies, School of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Christine M. Zunz as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

DELETION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. WYUN K. PARK AS ANNOUNCED TO THE BOARD ON MAY 25, 1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Wyun K. Park, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective May 1, 1990, be and it is hereby deleted.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD G. PICCOLO
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Richard G. Piccolo as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 10, 1990, at an annual salary of $45,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Mr. Richard G. Piccolo as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 17, 1990, at an annual salary of $45,000.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MS. CAROL W. TOMLINSON
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $29,000, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $29,000.

CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF DR. THOMAS A. MASSARO
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Dr. Thomas A. Massaro as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Dr. Thomas A. Massaro, as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MS. MARION W. ROSS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Ms. Marion W. Ross, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology, part-time to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Ms. Marion W. Ross from Assistant Professor of Anthropology, part-time, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. KAREN O. DOWD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Karen O. Dowd, Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to pursue doctoral degree, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Ms. Karen O. Dowd, Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through December 15, 1990, with partial pay, to pursue doctoral degree.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. WILLIAM A. LITTLE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows:Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MS. KATHERINE E. MALMQUIST
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the resignation of Ms. Katherine E. Malmquist as announced to the Board on October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected as follows:

SEPARATION
----------

The President announced the following separation: Mr. Gilbert Hay, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective November 16, 1990.

DEATH OF DR. MICHAEL L. CONNELL
-------------------------------

DEATH OF DR. LESLIE E. RUDOLF
-----------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John P. Bradwell as Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $24,000.Mr. Sreenath Shama as Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $31,000.Mr. Christopher L. Rizzo as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 17, 1990, at an annual salary of $21,100.Mr. Oscar R. Williams, III as Instructor in History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $20,000.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Walter C. Crouse, from Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1990.Mr. Paul D. Elosser, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, to Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1990.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Christopher L. Rizzo as Coordinator of Residence and Greek Life, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 17, 1990.

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following be and they are hereby nominated to terms on the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council:a. For a term ending June 30, 1992: Joe Tom Howard Eliza Sutton Riggb. For a term ending June 30, 1993: Glenda F. Ewing Bobby H. Colyer, Sr.c. For a term ending June 30, 1994: Don R. Pippin R. L. Wallen

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1994 CAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approve for final development by the University Administration and submittal to State government the final 1992-94 Capital Budget Program for the University of Virginia, Academic Division (Agency 207), Medical Center (Agency 209) and Clinch Valley College (Agency 246), as presented to the Board.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HARTMAN-COX ARCHITECTS FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES FOR A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR THE ALDERMAN LIBRARY SPECIAL COLLECTIONS EXPANSION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Hartman-Cox Architects ofWashington, D. C., be approved for the performance of architectural services for a feasibility study for the Alderman Library Special Collections Expansion Project. At the option of the University administration, the firm may later be continued for development of a preplanning study and for full architectural design services upon approval of the project by State government.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY (AT&T) ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated February 22, 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and AT&T which grants a ten (10) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain a fiber optics telephone line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Blue Ridge Hospital on Virginia Route 20 South be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated September 9, 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company which grants a thirty (30) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain an electric power line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Copeley Apartment Complex (Section IV) in the northern portion of the Grounds be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated October 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company which grants a thirty (30) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain an electric power line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Lambeth Field Apartment Complex in the northern portion of the Grounds be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE
-------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 2,852,199.38

Indigent Care

16,726,181.64

\--------------

$19,578,381.02

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it hereby is authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meetings of October 22, 1990 and November 30, 1990, which includes the write-offs for the months of August, September and October 1990 totalling $19,578,381.02 and consisting of the following: Bad Debt$ 2,852,199.38Indigent Care16,726,181.64--------------$19,578,381.02 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION, CONFERENCE, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE FACILITIES RATES FOR 1991-1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TUITION

Actual 1990

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1991

Virginian (per semester hour)

$ 82.00

$ 9.00

11.0%

$ 91.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

238.00

35.00

14.7%

273.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

245.00

30.00

12.2%

275.00

Appellate Judges Program

738.00

81.00

11.0%

819.00

Non-Resident Fee

45.00

0.00

\--

45.00

Late Payment Fee

25.00

0.00

\--

25.00

Summer Foreign Language Institute

25.00

5.00

20.00%

30.00

COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Newcomb Hall

$ 9.00

0.00

\--

9.00

Student Health

41.00

3.00

7.3%

44.00

Transportation

8.00

1.00

12.5%

9.00

TOTAL

$ 58.00

$ 4.00

6.9%

$ 62.00

Actual 1990

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1991

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$ 58.00

$ 4.00

6.9%

$ 62.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

245.00

30.00

12.2%

275.00

Non-Virginian

490.00

60.00

12.2%

550.00

Post doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

89.00

6.00

6.7%

95.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$367.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$367.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

236.00

0.00

0.0%

236.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

146.00

0.00

0.0%

146.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$ 80.00

$ 5.00

6.3%

$ 85.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

80.00

5.00

6.3%

85.00

Laing Center

120.00

0.00

0.0%

120.00

North

110.00

7.00

6.4%

117.00

South

110.00

7.00

6.4%

117.00

Northwest

110.00

7.00

6.4%

117.00

West

120.00

0.00

0.0%

120.00

Hentz-Mohr

162.00

10.00

6.2%

172.00

With Kitchen

204.00

11.00

5.4%

215.00

Clayton

162.00

10.00

6.2%

172.00

Catesby

136.00

8.00

5.9%

144.00

Gattinger

136.00

8.00

5.9%

144.00

Michaux

162.00

10.00

6.2%

172.00

With Kitchen

204.00

11.00

5.4%

215.00

Burns

144.00

16.00

11.1%

160.00

With Kitchen

\--

\--

new rate

200.00

Washington

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Banister

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

LeConte

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Hariot

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Schoew

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Mapnis

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Holbrook

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Mitchell

144.00

9.00

6.3%

153.00

Rafinesque

126.00

8.00

6.3%

134.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1990

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate Summer 1991

SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)

Alderman-Observatory

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 38.00

$ 2.00

5.3%

$ 40.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$ 48.00

$ 2.00

4.2%

$ 50.00

Brandon Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 48.00

$ 2.00

4.2%

$ 50.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$ 60.00

$ 4.00

6.7%

$ 64.00

Munford/Gwathmey

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 38.00

$ 2.00

5.3%

$ 40.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$ 48.00

$ 2.00

4.2%

$ 50.00

Sprigg Lane

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 42.00

$ 2.00

4.8%

$ 44.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$ 54.00

$ 2.00

3.7%

$ 56.00

Stadium Road

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$ 42.00

$ 2.00

4.8%

$ 44.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$ 54.00

$ 2.00

3.7%

$ 56.00

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES\* \*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10

(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 16.25

$ 1.25

7.7%

$ 17.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 22.50

$ 1.50

6.7%

$ 24.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 14.00

$ 1.00

7.1%

$ 15.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 19.25

$ 1.25

6.5%

$ 20.50

Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 17.75

$ 1.25

7.0%

$ 19.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 25.50

$ 1.75

6.9%

$ 27.25

Lawn

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 14.50

$ 1.00

6.9%

$ 15.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 20.00

$ 1.50

7.5%

$ 21.50

Faulkner

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 16.75

$ 1.25

7.5%

$ 18.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 24.50

$ 1.75

7.1%

$ 26.25

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1990

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate Summer 1991

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 14.50

$ 1.00

6.9%

$ 15.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 20.75

$ 1.50

7.2%

$ 22.25

(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 13.50

$ 1.00

7.4%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 18.50

$ 1.50

8.1%

$ 20.00

Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apartment

$ 190.00

$15.00

7.9%

$205.00

Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apartment

$ 250.00

$20.00

8.0%

$270.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 12.00

$ 1.00

8.3%

$ 13.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 16.00

$ 1.25

7.8%

$ 17.25

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 12.50

$ .75

6.0%

$ 13.25

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 9.50

$ .50

5.3%

$ 10.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 10.50

$ .75

7.1%

$ 11.25

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 12.00

$ 1.00

8.3%

$ 13.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 14.50

$ 1.00

6.9%

$ 15.50

Faulkner

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 13.50

$ 1.00

7.4%

$ 14.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 18.75

$ 1.25

6.7%

$ 20.00

Sprigg

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 11.75

$ .75

6.4%

$ 12.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$ 14.50

$ 1.00

6.9%

$ 15.50

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1990

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate Summer 1991

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 8.75

$ .75

8.6%

$ 9.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 7.75

$ .50

6.5%

$ 8.25

Munford/Gwathmey

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 8.25

$ .75

9.1%

$ 9.00

Brandon Apartment Complex

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

Sprigg Lane

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$ 10.25

$ .75

7.3%

$ 11.00

OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

GRADUATE SUITES

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$ 92.00

$ 4.00

4.4%

$ 96.00

GRADUATION GUESTS

Alderman/Observatory

Per person, per night

$ 14.00

$ 2.00

14.3%

$ 16.00

BREAKFAST

BRUNCH

LUNCH

DINNER

Actual 1990-91 Rate

Adult Conferences

Conference rate

$ 4.05

$ 4.30

$ 5.10

$ 6.15

Guest rate

$ 4.45

$ 4.75

$ 5.60

$ 6.80

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$ 2.95

$ 3.50

$ 4.00

$ 4.75

Guest rate

$ 3.25

$ 3.85

$ 4.40

$ 5.20

Amount of Increase

Adult Conferences

Conference rate

$ 0.25

$ 0.30

$ 0.35

$ 0.40

Guest rate

$ 0.25

$ 0.30

$ 0.15

$ 0.05

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$ 0.20

$ 0.25

$ 0.25

$ 0.35

Guest rate

$ 0.25

$ 0.25

$ 0.25

$ 0.25

Percent Increase

Adult Conference

Conference rate

6.2%

7.0%

6.9%

6.5%

Guest rate

5.6%

6.3%

2.7%

0.7%

Camps & Children

Conference rate

6.8%

7.1%

6.3%

7.4%

Guest rate

7.7%

6.5%

5.7%

4.8%

Proposed 1991-92 Rate

Adult Conference

Conference rate

$ 4.30

$ 4.60

$ 5.45

$ 6.55

Guest rate

$ 4.70

$ 5.05

$ 5.75

$ 6.85

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$ 3.15

$ 3.75

$ 4.25

$ 5.10

Guest rate

$ 3.50

$ 4.10

$ 4.65

$ 5.45

Actual 1990-91

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate 1991-92\* \*State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept.

Birdwood Pavilion

Single, per night

$ 50.00

$0.00

0.0%

$ 50.00

Double, per night

$ 65.00

$0.00

0.0%

$ 65.00

International Center - Public Rooms

Use of Rooms & Functions

Rooms

Actual 1990-91

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate 1991-92

Main rooms for social occasions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Grounds

$ 15.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 15.00

Main rooms for social occasions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen Grounds

$ 20.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 20.00

Use of grounds (only)

$ 20.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 20.00

Wedding receptions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$200.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$200.00

Rehearsal dinners and/or large parties over 80 persons

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$100.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$100.00

Rain site for wedding receptions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$ 35.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 35.00

Security deposit

$ 35.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 35.00

Actual 1990-91

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed Rate 1991-92\* \*State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept.

International Center - Guest Rooms

Single\*\* \*\*Shared room occupancy -- after 1 week, individual receives 15% discount for sharing \*\*If private room is requested, persons charged the couple rate

per night

$ 16.00

$ 1.10

6.9%

$ 17.10

per week

$ 82.00

$ 5.70

7.0%

$ 87.70

per month

$255.00

$17.85

7.0%

$ 272.85

Couple

per night

$ 23.00

$ 1.60

7.0%

$ 24.60

per week

$115.00

$ 8.05

7.0%

$ 123.05

per month

$360.00

$25.20

7.0%

$ 385.20

Children under 16 (cot)

per night

$ 5.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 5.00

per week

$15.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 15.00

per month

$50.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 50.00

Children in crib

per night

$ 2.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 2.00

per week

$10.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 10.00

per month

$25.00

$ 0.00

0.0%

$ 25.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1991: TUITIONActual 1990Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1991Virginian (per semester hour)$ 82.00$ 9.0011.0%$ 91.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)238.0035.0014.7%273.00Thesis/Dissertation Research245.0030.0012.2%275.00Appellate Judges Program738.0081.0011.0%819.00Non-Resident Fee45.000.00--45.00Late Payment Fee25.000.00--25.00Summer Foreign Language Institute25.005.0020.00%30.00COMPREHENSIVE FEENewcomb Hall$ 9.000.00--9.00Student Health41.003.007.3%44.00Transportation8.001.0012.5%9.00TOTAL$ 58.00$ 4.006.9%$ 62.00

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.

Actual 1990Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1991Lab Fee and Field Trip$ 58.00$ 4.006.9%$ 62.00Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:Virginian245.0030.0012.2%275.00Non-Virginian490.0060.0012.2%550.00Post doctoral Laboratory:Fee per week89.006.006.7%95.00MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$367.00$ 0.000.0%$367.00Each Person 10-16 years of age236.000.000.0%236.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger146.000.000.0%146.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$ 80.00$ 5.006.3%$ 85.00CottagesLaing Singles80.005.006.3%85.00Laing Center120.000.000.0%120.00North110.007.006.4%117.00South110.007.006.4%117.00Northwest110.007.006.4%117.00West120.000.000.0%120.00Hentz-Mohr162.0010.006.2%172.00With Kitchen204.0011.005.4%215.00Clayton162.0010.006.2%172.00Catesby136.008.005.9%144.00Gattinger136.008.005.9%144.00Michaux162.0010.006.2%172.00With Kitchen204.0011.005.4%215.00Burns144.0016.0011.1%160.00With Kitchen----new rate200.00Washington144.009.006.3%153.00Banister144.009.006.3%153.00LeConte144.009.006.3%153.00Hariot144.009.006.3%153.00Schoew144.009.006.3%153.00Mapnis144.009.006.3%153.00Holbrook144.009.006.3%153.00Mitchell144.009.006.3%153.00Rafinesque126.008.006.3%134.00

AND BE IT RESOLVED that the following rental rates for housing facilities for summer, 1991, be and they are hereby approved:

FACILITYActual Summer 1990Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate Summer 1991SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)Alderman-ObservatoryPer student, per week, double occupancy$ 38.00$ 2.005.3%$ 40.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$ 48.00$ 2.004.2%$ 50.00Brandon Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occupancy$ 48.00$ 2.004.2%$ 50.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$ 60.00$ 4.006.7%$ 64.00Munford/GwathmeyPer student, per week, double occupancy$ 38.00$ 2.005.3%$ 40.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$ 48.00$ 2.004.2%$ 50.00Sprigg LanePer student, per week, double occupancy$ 42.00$ 2.004.8%$ 44.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$ 54.00$ 2.003.7%$ 56.00Stadium RoadPer student, per week, double occupancy$ 42.00$ 2.004.8%$ 44.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$ 54.00$ 2.003.7%$ 56.00SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES\* \*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10 (A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 16.25$ 1.257.7%$ 17.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 22.50$ 1.506.7%$ 24.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 14.00$ 1.007.1%$ 15.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 19.25$ 1.256.5%$ 20.50Copeley Hill, Phase III & IVPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 17.75$ 1.257.0%$ 19.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 25.50$ 1.756.9%$ 27.25LawnPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 14.50$ 1.006.9%$ 15.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 20.00$ 1.507.5%$ 21.50FaulknerPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 16.75$ 1.257.5%$ 18.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 24.50$ 1.757.1%$ 26.25 FACILITYActual Summer 1990Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate Summer 1991Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$ 14.50$ 1.006.9%$ 15.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 20.75$ 1.507.2%$ 22.25(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 13.50$ 1.007.4%$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 18.50$ 1.508.1%$ 20.00Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apartment$ 190.00$15.007.9%$205.00Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apartment$ 250.00$20.008.0%$270.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 12.00$ 1.008.3%$ 13.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 16.00$ 1.257.8%$ 17.25Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 12.50$ .756.0%$ 13.25McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 9.50$ .505.3%$ 10.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 10.50$ .757.1%$ 11.25Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$ 12.00$ 1.008.3%$ 13.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 14.50$ 1.006.9%$ 15.50FaulknerPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 13.50$ 1.007.4%$ 14.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 18.75$ 1.256.7%$ 20.00SpriggPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 11.75$ .756.4%$ 12.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$ 14.50$ 1.006.9%$ 15.50(C) NO LINEN SERVICELambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00 FACILITYActual Summer 1990Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate Summer 1991Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 8.75$ .758.6%$ 9.50McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 7.75$ .506.5%$ 8.25Munford/GwathmeyPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 8.25$ .759.1%$ 9.00Brandon Apartment ComplexPer person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00Sprigg LanePer person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$ 10.25$ .757.3%$ 11.00 OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.GRADUATE SUITESGraduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road HousesPer suite, per week$ 92.00$ 4.004.4%$ 96.00GRADUATION GUESTSAlderman/ObservatoryPer person, per night$ 14.00$ 2.0014.3%$ 16.00

Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10

AND BE IT RESOLVED that rate increases for summer conference meals be and they are hereby approved as shown below effective July 1, 1991:

BREAKFASTBRUNCHLUNCHDINNERActual 1990-91 RateAdult ConferencesConference rate$ 4.05$ 4.30$ 5.10$ 6.15Guest rate$ 4.45$ 4.75$ 5.60$ 6.80Camps & ChildrenConference rate$ 2.95$ 3.50$ 4.00$ 4.75Guest rate$ 3.25$ 3.85$ 4.40$ 5.20Amount of IncreaseAdult ConferencesConference rate$ 0.25$ 0.30$ 0.35$ 0.40Guest rate$ 0.25$ 0.30$ 0.15$ 0.05Camps & ChildrenConference rate$ 0.20$ 0.25$ 0.25$ 0.35Guest rate$ 0.25$ 0.25$ 0.25$ 0.25Percent IncreaseAdult ConferenceConference rate6.2%7.0%6.9%6.5%Guest rate5.6%6.3%2.7%0.7%Camps & ChildrenConference rate6.8%7.1%6.3%7.4%Guest rate7.7%6.5%5.7%4.8%Proposed 1991-92 RateAdult ConferenceConference rate$ 4.30$ 4.60$ 5.45$ 6.55Guest rate$ 4.70$ 5.05$ 5.75$ 6.85Camps & ChildrenConference rate$ 3.15$ 3.75$ 4.25$ 5.10Guest rate$ 3.50$ 4.10$ 4.65$ 5.45

AND BE IT RESOLVED that the Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation and the International Center room rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1991:

Actual 1990-91Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate 1991-92\* \*State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept. Birdwood PavilionSingle, per night$ 50.00$0.000.0%$ 50.00Double, per night$ 65.00$0.000.0%$ 65.00International Center - Public Rooms Use of Rooms & FunctionsRoomsActual 1990-91Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate 1991-92Main rooms for social occasionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Grounds$ 15.00$ 0.000.0%$ 15.00Main rooms for social occasionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen Grounds$ 20.00$ 0.000.0%$ 20.00Use of grounds (only)$ 20.00$ 0.000.0%$ 20.00Wedding receptionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$200.00$ 0.000.0%$200.00Rehearsal dinners and/or large parties over 80 personsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$100.00$ 0.000.0%$100.00Rain site for wedding receptionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$ 35.00$ 0.000.0%$ 35.00Security deposit$ 35.00$ 0.000.0%$ 35.00 Actual 1990-91Amt of IncrPercent IncrProposed Rate 1991-92\* \*State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept. International Center - Guest RoomsSingle\*\* \*\*Shared room occupancy -- after 1 week, individual receives 15% discount for sharing \*\*If private room is requested, persons charged the couple rate per night$ 16.00$ 1.106.9%$ 17.10per week$ 82.00$ 5.707.0%$ 87.70per month$255.00$17.857.0%$ 272.85Coupleper night$ 23.00$ 1.607.0%$ 24.60per week$115.00$ 8.057.0%$ 123.05per month$360.00$25.207.0%$ 385.20Children under 16 (cot)per night$ 5.00$ 0.000.0%$ 5.00per week$15.00$ 0.000.0%$ 15.00per month$50.00$ 0.000.0%$ 50.00Children in cribper night$ 2.00$ 0.000.0%$ 2.00per week$10.00$ 0.000.0%$ 10.00per month$25.00$ 0.000.0%$ 25.00

State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept.

State tax is charged on all guest room fees unless paid by UVa Dept.

Shared room occupancy -- after 1 week, individual receives 15% discount for sharing

\*\*If private room is requested, persons charged the couple rate

NOTE:

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1991-1992 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1990-91 Per Student Per Session

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1,500

$68

4.5%

$1,568

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1,742

$78

4.5%

$1,820

Triple Room

$1,392

$64

4.6%

$1,456

McCormick Road

Double Room

$1,424

$64

4.5%

$1,488

Small Double Room

$1,242

$56

4.5%

$1,298

Per Day Rate

$ 8

0

0

$ 8

Lawn

Small Single

$1,624

$74

4.6%

$1,698

Regular Single

$1,710

$78

4.6%

$1,788

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1,576

$72

4.6%

$1,648

Range

Regular Single

$1,656

$76

4.6%

$1,732

Crackerbox

Single Room

$1,656

$76

4.6%

$1,732

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$1,500

$68

4.5%

$1,568

Single Room

$1,656

$76

4.6%

$1,732

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$1,704

$78

4.6%

$1,782

Single Room

$1,854

$84

4.5%

$1,938

Single Room (Private Bath)

$1,920

$86

4.5%

$2,006

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Double Room

$1,710

$78

4.6%

$1,788

Single Room

$1,854

$84

4.5%

$1,938

TWELVE MONTH RATE:

Double

$2,564

$116

4.5%

$2,680

Single

$2,710

$122

4.5%

$2,832

Facility

Actual 1990-91 Per Student Per Session

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1,774

$80

4.5%

$1,854

Three Bedroom

$1,700

$78

4.6%

$1,778

Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)

Double

$1,838

$84

4.6%

$1,922

Single

$1,924

$88

4.6%

$2,012

Actual 1990-91 Per Student Per Session

Amt of Incr

Percent Incr

Proposed 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$372

$18

4.8%

$390

Two Bedroom

$414

$20

4.8%

$434

Three Bedroom

$446

$20

4.5%

$466

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$360

$16

4.4%

$376

Two Bedroom

$392

$18

4.6%

$410

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1991-1992: FacilityActual 1990-91 Per Student Per SessionAmt of IncrPercent IncrProposed 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$1,500$684.5%$1,568Monroe HillDouble Room$1,742$784.5%$1,820Triple Room$1,392$644.6%$1,456McCormick RoadDouble Room$1,424$644.5%$1,488Small Double Room$1,242$564.5%$1,298Per Day Rate$ 800$ 8LawnSmall Single$1,624$744.6%$1,698Regular Single$1,710$784.6%$1,788Small Single (no fireplace)$1,576$724.6%$1,648RangeRegular Single$1,656$764.6%$1,732CrackerboxSingle Room$1,656$764.6%$1,732Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$1,500$684.5%$1,568Single Room$1,656$764.6%$1,732Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)Double Room$1,704$784.6%$1,782Single Room$1,854$844.5%$1,938Single Room (Private Bath)$1,920$864.5%$2,006Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Double Room$1,710$784.6%$1,788Single Room$1,854$844.5%$1,938TWELVE MONTH RATE:Double$2,564$1164.5%$2,680Single$2,710$1224.5%$2,832 FacilityActual 1990-91 Per Student Per SessionAmt of IncrPercent IncrProposed 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionAPARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1,774$804.5%$1,854Three Bedroom$1,700$784.6%$1,778Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)Double$1,838$844.6%$1,922Single$1,924$884.6%$2,012 Actual 1990-91 Per Student Per SessionAmt of IncrPercent IncrProposed 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$372$184.8%$390Two Bedroom$414$204.8%$434Three Bedroom$446$204.5%$466University GardensOne Bedroom$360$164.4%$376Two Bedroom$392$184.6%$410

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1991-1992 FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1990-91

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1991-92

Dormitory Rent

Dorms

$1,400

$100

7.1%

$1,500

Apt. House

$1,590

$110

6.9%

$1,700

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the dormitory room charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1991:RESOLVED that the dormitory room charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1991: Actual 1990-91Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1991-92Dormitory RentDorms$1,400$1007.1%$1,500Apt. House$1,590$1106.9%$1,700

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CHANGES IN THE VOLUNTARY INCENTIVE RETIREMENT PROGRAM FOR FACULTY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virgini has approved an Incentive Retirement Plan for faculty which has been approved by the State; andWHEREAS, minor modifications to the Plan are needed to make it more responsive to University needs and to comply with Federal tax regulations;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the following changes related to the Retirement Decision Contract shall be incorporated into the Plan and submitted to the State for approval:II.C. 2. At its discretion in order to meet management needs, the University may reduce or waive the requirement that an eligible faculty member continue full-time employment for a period of at least 24 months from the date that the retirement decision contract is signed until actual retirement.II.D. 1. Except as provided in paragraph 2, the Retirement Payment will be paid in two installments; the first by June 30 of the fiscal year in which retirement occurs and the second by September 30 of the succeeding fiscal year.

REVISION OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FUNDING GUIDELINES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Funding Guidelines for the Allocation of the Student Activity Fee be and they are hereby revised and restated as follows:RESOLVED that the Student Activities Committee shall be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fund which is made up of Student Activities Fees. With respect to the purpose of an allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows:STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:The purpose of the student activity fee is to provide financial support for student organizations that are related to the educational purpose of the University of Virginia. As a required student fee, the monies collected by the University for funding student activities are public funds which must be administered in a manner consistent with the educational purpose of the University as well as with state and federal law.STUDENT ACTIVITIES ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING:The Rector and Visitors have determined that activities of the student organizations in the following categories relate to the educational purpose of the University and thus are eligible for funding.1. Special Status Student Organizations charged by the Board of Visitors;2. co-curricular organizations which are not administered by University departments or units;3. club sports;4. student news, information, opinion, entertainment, or academic communications media groups;5. cultural organizations;6. fine arts organizations;7. Madison House;8. hobby organizations;9. non-political groups whose predominate purpose is to present speakers on topics of probable general interest to the University;10. the Student Legal Services; and11. service organizations.STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING:The Board of Visitors has determined that fraternities, sororities, honor societies, political organizations, religious organizations, and special status student organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for funds from the student activities fees. An organization is also ineligible when admission is exclusionary in nature and not open to all students or if membership is restricted by reason of race, religion, disability, national origin, political affiliation, or gender. Notwithstanding these requirements, a student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. In determining cases of discrimination, it is not sufficient to look merely to the constitution of an organization but to its actual practices and operations.STUDENT EXPENDITURES AND ACTIVITIES NOT ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING:The Board of Visitors has further determined that the following expenditures and activities do not relate to the educational purpose of the University and thus are not eligible for funding:1. honoraria or similar fees;2. religious activities;3. social entertainment or related expenses;4. philanthropic contributions and activities;5. political activities;6. activities which would jeopardize the University's tax exempt status.FUND ALLOCATION AND APPEAL PROCEDURES/PROCESS:The Student Activities Committee chaired by the designee of the Vice President for Student Affairs is charged with the authority and responsibility for supervision of the student activities fee fund. With respect to distributions from the fund, Student Council is responsible for allocations to eligible student organizations. The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations shall be the current balance in the student activities fees fund. The allocation process follows procedures established by Student Council which are intended to maximize the use of the funds and are consistent with the above guidelines. The Student Council Appropriations Committee is responsible for following these procedures and making the recommendations to the Student Council Representative Body on the funding requests. In providing student organizations with appropriations deemed needed, the Student Council Appropriations Committee shall be further guided by such criteria as the size of the group, the University wide benefit of the group's activities, and the group's level of financial self-sufficiency. The committee is encouraged but is not required to appropriate all of the available fund balance.The Appropriations Committee recommended allocation to a student organization may be appealed to the Student Council Representative Body by any student or student organization. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal for any budget reviewed and, in some cases, adjusted by the Student Council Representative Body. In addition, the Student Activities Committee may examine on its own motion any student organization's allocation request submitted to the Student Council.After the allocations are finalized, the Student Council Vice President for Student Organizations writes the chair of the Student Activities Committee requesting that the allocations for those funded organizations be released to the Student Activities Business Manager. When the Student Activities Business Manager receives the funds, they are deposited into a demand deposit account. Expenditures from the allocations can be made provided the student organization completes the proper authorization forms with the Student Activities Business Manager. The student organizations receive their allocation on a per semester basis for payment of expenses of activities conducted during the fall and spring semesters only.Any funded student organization alleged to be in violation of the above guidelines is subject to the suspension or loss of student activity fee funding after notice and an opportunity to be heard by Student Council. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal body.The Guidelines for Student Activities Fund Allocation apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or are made after, January 1, 1991.DEFINITIONS OF TERMSThese definitions of terms are intended to provide clarification of the student activity fee fund guidelines. In those cases where further clarification is needed, Student Council and, if necessary, the Student Activities Committee will interpret the guidelines based on the facts presented and the Board of Visitors intent for the student activity fee.Ability to Perform-- a student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. For example, a student publication may make requirements based on writing skills. A club sport may restrict membership where selection is based on competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport thus resulting in a team of one or predominately one gender. Likewise, a choral group may restrict membership based on vocal range or quality which may also result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one gender.Co-curricular Organization -- a group which provides opportunities outside the classroom setting for students to apply classroom theory and/or to acquire knowledge, experience and/or skills.Cultural Organization -- an organization which is primarily concerned with studying, promoting, and/or expressing racial, ethnic, or affinity group traditions, social forms, art, and/or tastes.Hobby Organization-- a group which primarily pursues an activity for relaxation, recreation, or entertainment.Political Activity -- an activity related to: (1) lobbying the principal purpose of which is to influence the passage or defeat of specific legislation; and/or (2) electioneering which encompasses participation or intervention in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. These restrictions on funding political activities are not intended to preclude funding of any otherwise eligible student organization which: (1) advocates, as an incidental or insubstantial parts of its activities, the adoption or rejection of legislation; (2) engages in nonpartisan analysis, study, or research, and makes the results available to the public; or (3) espouses particular positions or ideological viewpoints, including those that may be unpopular or are not generally accepted.Political Organization -- an organization primarily involved with influencing legislation, the administration of governmental policy, and/or the election of candidates for public office.Religious Activity -- an activity which primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief(s) in or about a deity or an ultimate reality.Religious Organization -- an organization whose purpose is to practice a devotion to an acknowledged ultimate reality or deity.Student Activities Committee-- the University faculty/student committee charged by the Vice President for Student Affairs to provide oversight to the student activity fee fund and its allocation by Student Council.Special Status Student Organizations -- Student organizations which have University delegated functions to perform are termed special status. These groups which include but are not limited to Student Council, school councils, University Guides, and University Singers have a University department or a school responsible for each group relative to the delegated functions.Two groups, Student Council and WTJU, are charged by the Board of Visitors. The other Special Status Student Organizations receive their charge from a University department or school. Because of this relationship to a school or department and the concomitant funding available to the group, Special Status Student Organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for student activity fee fund allocations.Student Organizations Eligible for Funding -- Contracted Independent Organizations which have been Student Council qualified and comply with the Student Council appropriations process guidelines as well as Special Status Student Organizations charged by the Board of Visitors are eligible for student activity fee funding. Currently, Student Council and WTJU are Special Status Student Organizations eligible for funding.CURRENT FUNDING GUIDELINESRESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activities Committee chaired by the designate of the Vice President for Student Affairs shall be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fund which is made up of student activities fees. With respect to allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows: the budgets of all organizations will be reviewed by Student Council. Following the review and possible adjustments, Student Council will allocate funds from student activities fees to the organizations.Funds may be allocated by Student Council to eligible student organizations in the following categories, The Rector and Visitors having determined that activities in these categories are related to the educational purpose of the University:1. student councils;2. co-curricular activities which do not come under the purview of University departments or units;3. club sports;4. curricularly-oriented publications, student newspapers, and student news magazines;5. the student radio and television stations;6. cultural and fine arts activities;7. the University designated coordinating agency for student volunteer service activities;8. student clinical training programs;9. hobby organizations;10. non-partisan groups whose predominate purpose is to present speakers on a non-partisan basis to speak on topics of probable general interest to the University;11. student legal services;12. service organizations; and13. student organizations acting as spokesmen for groups of students protected by federal non-discrimination legislation.No monies from these funds shall be given:1. for honoraria or similar fees;2. for religious activities or activities sponsored by religious organizations;3. for social entertainment or for organizations whose activities are substantially social;4. to such organizations as fraternities, sororities or honor societies when admission is exclusionary in nature and not open to all students as well as to any organization when membership is restricted by reason of race, religion, national origin, political affiliation, or sex. Notwithstanding these requirements, a club sport may restrict membership based on sex where selection for such teams is based on competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. Organizations may also make requirements based on writing skills or on vocal range or quality which may result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one sex. In determining cases of discrimination it is not sufficient to look merely to the constitution of such an organization but to its actual practices and operations.5. for political action purposes, i.e. lobbying or electioneering activities. Lobbying includes any activity the principal purpose of which is to influence the passage or defeat of specific legislation. Electioneering encompasses participating or intervening in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. These restrictions are not intended to preclude funding or any otherwise eligible student organization which: (1) advocates, as an incidental or insubstantial parts of its activities, the adoption or rejection of legislation; (2) engages in nonpartisan analysis, study, or research, and makes the results available to the public; or (3) espouses particular positions or ideological viewpoints, including those that may be unpopular or are not generally accepted.6. for activities which would jeopardize the University's status as an organization to which contributions are deductible under Section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code. If a governmental inquiry or audit is initiated as a result of an activity of a particular organization or otherwise impair the University's tax-exempt status, the University may suspend, withdraw or discontinue funding to that organization after notice and an opportunity to be heard.The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations will be the then current total student activities fees. Each organization whose budget is reviewed by the Student Council will have a right of appeal to the Student Activities Committee. Any student or student groups may also appeal to the Student Council and to the Student Activities Committee. The Student Activities Committee shall examine on its own motion any budgets that may be approved by the Student Council for organizations deemed by the committee to be within the categories noted above.If no appeal or motion is taken the Student Council Vice President for Student Organizations writes the chairman of the Student Activities Committee requesting that the allocations for those organizations be released to the Student Activities Business Manager. When the Student Activities Business Manager receives the funds they are deposited into a bank checking account. Expenditures from the allocations can be made provided the student organization completes the proper authorization forms with the Student Activities Business Manager.BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that the foregoing amendments to the Guidelines for Student Activities Current Fund Allocation shall apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or are made after, July 1, 1990.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE 1990 FOOTBALL TEAM
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the 1990 University of Virginia football team enjoyed an exceptional season, defeating such strong and traditional rivals as Clemson and the Naval Academy; andWHEREAS, the team was invited to play in the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Day, 1991; andWHEREAS, the team wished to see part of its earnings from the Sugar Bowl support establishment of a professorship emphasizing outstanding teaching, another part used to offset the impact on the Alderman Library of the state budgetary shortfalls that reduce the Library's funds; andWHEREAS, the players represent the highest ideal of student athlete;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends the members of the football team, and their coaches, for their performance during the 1990 season, and thanks the team for its generosity to the University and its support of the University's core academic enterprises.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE 1990 MEN'S SOCCER TEAM
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the men's soccer team of the University of Virginia in 1990 advanced to the quarter finals of the NCAA Tournament for the tenth consecutive year; andWHEREAS, the team reached the finals of the Atlantic Coast Conference and otherwise enjoyed a strong season;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends the team and its coaches for its performance in the 1990 season.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE 1990 WOMEN'S SOCCER TEAM
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the women's soccer team of the University of Virginia enjoyed its most successful season in 1990 with a record of 18 wins and three losses; andWHEREAS, the team was ranked third in the nation and advanced to the NCAA Tournament for the fourth consecutive year; andWHEREAS, Lauren Gregg, the team's coach, was voted "National Soccer Coach of the Year" for 1990;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends the women's soccer team and its coach, Lauren Gregg, for exceptional performance in the 1990 season and recognizes the honor they have brought to the University.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE HONORABLE W. NATHANIEL HOWELL, JR.
------------------------------------------------------------

President Casteen introduced Ambassador Wilson Nathaniel Howell, Jr., his wife Margie, Mr. R. K. Ramazani, Mr. Howell's Professor during his undergraduate and graduate years at the University of Virginia, and Mr. Michael D. Capps, a University of Virginia graduate student and an intern in Kuwait City at the time of the Iraqi invasion. After a presentation by the President and a response from Ambassador Howell, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

WHEREAS, The Honorable Wilson Nathaniel Howell, Jr., a native of Portsmouth, distinguished himself as a student at the University of Virginia, taking the B.A. in 1961 and in 1965 the Ph.D., which he did under the direction of Professor R. K. Ramazani; and

WHEREAS, Ambassador Howell was appointed a Foreign Service Officer in 1965, thus beginning a career in which he has served with distinction chiefly in the Middle East but in other parts of the world as well; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Howell was completing his tour as Ambassador to Kuwait at the time of the Iraqi invasion in that country in August 1990; and

WHEREAS, Ambassador Howell, in spite of Iraqi threats and intimidation and eventually a blockade, kept his Embassy open thus maintaining an American presence in occupied Kuwait; and

WHEREAS, Ambassador Howell's courage and devotion to duty has been an inspiration not only to his colleagues in the Foreign Service but to all Americans;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board commends Wilson Nathaniel Howell, Jr., and thanks this son of the University for the example he has set and for the way in which he has served his country.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING MR. BRAD R. BRAXTON
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Brad R. Braxton of Salem matriculated in the College in 1987; andWHEREAS, Mr. Braxton was awarded a Jefferson Scholarship and chosen an Echols Scholar; andWHEREAS, Mr. Braxton received Intermediate Honors and has been active as a leader in a number of University-wide organizations; andWHEREAS, he has demonstrated a strong commitment to the ideal of diversity in the University community and through his leadership has done much to further that ideal; andWHEREAS, Mr. Braxton was chosen a Rhodes Scholar in December, 1990, the University's 40th;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Mr. Braxton for the contributions he has made to the life of the University, congratulates him for being named as Rhodes Scholar, and looks forward to welcoming him into the company of distinguished alumni.

APPROVAL OF THE 1991 ANNUAL AUDIT SCHEDULE
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1991 Annual Audit Schedule, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period September 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported that Gifts, Grants and Contracts during the most recent reporting period have continued to improve with regard to the University's overall performance in attracting gifts, grants, and contracts. The Report was approved by the Board.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 5:00 p.m.

AGG:jb

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

absent

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

absent

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on January 31, 1991, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.absentMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieabsentFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: January 31, 1991

Audit Committee of the

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Audit Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Audit Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors

VOTE

AYES: 14

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: January 31, 1991

Finance Committee of the

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Finance Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Finance Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors

VOTE

AYES: 14

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent during vote

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

absent

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on January 31, 1991, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. Klugeabsent during voteArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.absentMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 1, 1991

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

absent during vote

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on February 1, 1991; 11:30 a.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.absent during vote

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 1, 1991

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

absent during vote

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on February 1, 1991; 3:00 P.M., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.absent during voteRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yes
