---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1992'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1992) May 23, 1992
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 23, 1992

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 23, 1992
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session, on Friday, May 22, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey Dabney, Rector, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott. Messrs. John T. Casteen, III, James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Don E. Detmer, Thomas H. Jackson, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:40 a.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, May 23, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Hovey S. Dabney, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 28, 1992, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to (1) pending litigation involving the University, (2) particular disputes that may lead to litigation, and (3) specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel including discussion of the legal authority and fiduciary responsibility of the Board of Visitors relative to its oversight of University-related foundations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the Internal Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Newcomb Hall Bookstore, the Department of Athletics Ticket Office, University Accounts Payable, the Outpatient Billing of the Health Sciences Center and the Burn Unit of the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.(c) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing specific fund-raising activities and strategies in preparation for the Capital Campaign as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of the Code of Virginia.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing evaluation of certain schools and departments and discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in May 1993. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEJ. Thomas Hulvey, ChairN. Thomas ConnallyEvans B. JesseeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Elizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. Small FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonS. Buford Scott BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. Morie, ChairJ. Scott BallengerEvans B. JesseeS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., ChairJ. Scott BallengerRobert G. Butcher, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWaller H. HorsleyPatricia M. KlugeFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr. EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEWaller H. Horsley, ChairJ. Scott BallengerN. Thomas ConnallyJ. Thomas HulveyPatricia M. KlugeLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. AUDIT COMMITTEES. Buford Scott, ChairMortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. Leon EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyWarner N. DalhousePatricia M. KlugeS. Buford ScottAlbert H. Small

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the following members were elected to serve on the Executive Committee until the next annual meeting in May 1993:

Hovey S. Dabney, Chair

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

N. Thomas Connally

Patricia M. Kluge

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 11:40 a.m., on Saturday, May 23, 1992.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. L. Karla Arruda as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective March 1, 1992.Mr. Martin E. Block as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Constantine J. Contis as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.Ms. Suzanne G. Cusick as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Cristina Della Coletta as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Eric N. Denby as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas C. Foster, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Bonnie Guiton as Professor of Commerce, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Marie-Louise Hammarskjold as Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Max R. Harris as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Richard K. Holway as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective April 1, 1992.Dr. Julia C. Iezzoni as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Catherine F. Kane as Associate Professor of Nursing and Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period July 20, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Cheryl L. Krueger as Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael J. Marshall as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective March 1, 1992.Dr. Michelle-Marie Martel as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective May 1, 1992.Dr. John P. Pelegano as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years.Mr. Rick E. Provine as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.Dr. Stuart A. Rosenberg as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for five years, effective April 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas J. Scanlan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David M. Seaman as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Terence K. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 27, 1992.Mr. Robert E. Spekman as Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Elliott F. Williams as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard K. Zacour as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period March 23, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Thomas H. Courtney as William G. Reynolds Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael P. Dooley as Sullivan and Cromwell Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Dooley will continue as William S. Potter Professor of Law.Mr. Clayton P. Gillette as Perre Bowen Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr. as Horace W. Goldsmith Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Jeffries will continue as Professor of Law.Mr. Alex M. Johnson as Harrison Foundation Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Johnson will continue as Professor of Law.Mr. David A. Martin as F. Palmer Weber Research Professor of Civil Liberties and Human Rights, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Martin will continue as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law.Mr. John P. O'Connell as Harry Douglas Forsyth Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Daniel R. Ortiz as Harrison Foundation Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Ortiz will continue as Professor of Law.Mr. David Rekosh as Myles H. Thaler Professor of Medical Science and Professor of Microbiology, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Ribando as Lucien Carr, III, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. William W. Roberts as Commonwealth Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Glen O. Robinson as Albert Clark Tate, Jr. Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Robinson will continue as John C. Stennis Professor of Law.Ms. Julie A. Roin as Class of 1963 Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Ms. Roin will continue as Professor of Law.Mr. Larry J. Sabato as Robert Kent Gooch Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Scott will continue as Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Professor of Law.Mr. Paul B. Stephan, III as Hunton and Williams Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Stephan will continue as Percy Brown, Jr. Professor of Law.(b) Re-election of ChairholderMr. Saul X. Levmore as Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Levmore will continue as Class of 1962 Professor of Law.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. David Novak, Edgar M. Bronfman Professor of Modern Judaic Studies, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, D.C.(d) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Ahmed K. Noor from Ferman W. Perry Professor of Civil Engineering to Ferman W. Perry Professor of Aerospace Structures and Applied Mechanics, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani from Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Stephen A. Schuker from Commonwealth Professor of History to William W. Corcoran Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.(e) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(s) deleted.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Jacob Aboudi as Visiting Professor of Applied Mechanics, for the period March 1, 1992 through February 28, 1997.Ms. Mildred K. Abraham as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Susan M. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for the period May 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.Mr. William H. Anderson, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Helen L. Anthony as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Bonny G. Bronson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Sharon E. Chilcote-Doner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert M. Conroy as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Jean L. Cooper as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Patricia F. Coopersmith as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael J. Cronin as Visiting Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Rolf Densing as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective April 1, 1992.Mr. William H. Dubbs as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Zhichu Fang as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period March 1, 1992 through April 30, 1992.Ms. Betty A. Fletcher as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Edward R. Ford as Associate Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Roseanne M. Ford as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Charles L. Frieden as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Gail T. Galasko as Research Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for the period April 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992.Mr. William P. Glasheen as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective April 1, 1992.Ms. Vera R. Granlund as Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. David E. Haines as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Stanley Hauerwas as Visiting Professor of Religious Studies, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Douglas P. Hurd as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Stephen H. Jones as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Julie A. Kaplan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Karen H. Knierim as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Mary A. Kraehe as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jan M. Levine as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Richard B. Martin as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Cassandra Maxwell-Simmons as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Brian W. Metcalf as Visiting Research Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Jennie L. Moody as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, part time, for the period March 1, 1992 through February 28, 1993.Mr. Kenneth Morgan as Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for two years, effective March 1, 1992.Mr. Nagaraj Nandhakumer as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Lynn R. Noland as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Michael A. Okin as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for one year, effective April 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas J. Olson as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas L. Pearce as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Julia Pet-Edwards as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas Piccariello as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. Larry G. Richards as Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, General Faculty, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period March 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. David W. Sedgwick as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Eugene R. Seeloff as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Barbara S. Selby as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. William A. Shaver as Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Helmy M. Siragy as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period April 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Ann L. Southwell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Marylee Carolyn Sturgis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Sylvia V. Terry as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Joel M. Trugman as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for the period April 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Rizwan Uddin as Research Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Lan Vo Ky as Visiting Research Professor of Physics, for the period March 16, 1992 through May 15, 1992.Mr. Robert I. Webb as Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Toni G. Wegner as Assistant Professor of Psychology, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Judith A. Wilson as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Yongbo Xu as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, part time, for the period May 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. James M. Adams from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Simon P. Anderson from Assistant Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Maurice Apprey from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Edward L. Ayers from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Jack W. Barber from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry (without term) and Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Timothy Beatley from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. James A. Blackman from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Alison Booth from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Stephen M. Borowitz from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. H. Robert Brashear, III from Assistant Professor of Neurology and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. E. Richard Brownlee, II from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. David S. Cafiso from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. W. Bernard Carlson from Assistant Professor of Humanities to Associate Professor of Humanities, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Martin D. Chapman from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Karen S. Chase-Levenson from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Richard A. Christoph from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Maximo L. Cuesta from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Frederick H. Damon from Associate Professor of Anthropology to Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Eduard E. de Lange from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Shelby C. Dickerson from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas H. Estes from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. William S. Evans from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Newell R. Falkinburg from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. M. Jamie Ferreira from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Hilton L. Fowler from Associate Professor of Neurology, Salem Program to Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Georgios B. Giannakis from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Wendy L. Golden from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John C. Herr from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Timothy R. Hinkin from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Brian C. Hoard from Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Stephen Innes from Associate Professor of History to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Christopher M. Johns from Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Gordon E. Keller from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert S. Kemp from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Michael J. Klarman from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Aubrey L. Knight from Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. John C. Knight from Associate Professor of Computer Science to Professor of Computer Science, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Denis A. Leong from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Physiology, General Medical Faculty to Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Research Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Ivan S. Login from Associate Professor of Neurology to Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Brenda H. Loyd from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Stewart C. Malone from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Barry J. Marshall from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1993.Dr. Thomas A. Massaro from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Steven A. Meixel from Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Farzaneh M. Milani from Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages to Associate Professor of Oriental Languages, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. John S. Minasi from Lecturer in Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Instructor in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. David R. Moody from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gary K. Owens from Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Deborah W. Parker from Assistant Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese to Associate Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Charles L. Perdue from Associate Professor of Anthropology and Associate Professor of English to Professor of Anthropology and Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. William A. Petri, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Laurence Pettit from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Stephen F. Railton from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Christopher M. Rembold from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Physiology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Karen S. Rheuban from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Donald St. P. Richards from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Emilie F. Rissman from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Frank T. Saulsbury from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Bruce D. Schirmer from Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Charlene M. Sedgwick from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. John B. Selby from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Judith Shatin from Associate Professor of Music to Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Bellave S. Shivaram from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas C. Skalak from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. M. Mitchell Smith from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Sang H. Son from Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Michael P. Timko from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Eric Turkheimer from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Deborah A. Verstegen from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Richard P. Warner from Assistant Professor of Drama to Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Janet I. Warren from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Alfred C. Weaver from Associate Professor of Computer Science to Professor of Computer Science, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Julian M. Weiss from Assistant Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese to Associate Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. D. Mark Whittle from Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Samuel J. Williams, II from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Wayne H. Wilson from Associate Professor of Surgery, Salem Program to Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Moses K. Woode from Associate Professor of Medical Education and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Medical Education (without term) and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Michael W. Wormington from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Jie Yang from Research Instructor in Physiology to Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Millicent S. Aron, Associate Professor of History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. R. Anton Braun, Assistant Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. John D. Casey, Professor of English, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to work on a book.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Professor of Classics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Jack W. Davidson, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Scott K. Deveaux, Associate Professor of Music, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Ms. M. Jamie Ferreira, Professor of Religious Studies, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Alastair D. Fowler, Professor of English, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Professor, with pay, for the period January 1, 1993 through June 30, 1993, to do research.Mr. Gerhard Glomm, Assistant Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to teach at Charles University in Prague.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. David B. Lawall, Associate Professor of Art History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.Mr. John D. Lyons, Professor of French, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. Fred E. Maus, Assistant Professor of Music, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship.Ms. Deborah W. Parker, Assistant Professor of Italian, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship.Ms. Joyce G. Pastors, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, with partial pay, for the period March 1, 1992 through April 30, 1992, to extend the Modified Service Leave under the Faculty Leave Policy.Mr. R. Jahan Ramazani, Assistant Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to accept a fellowship.Ms. Marion E. Roberts, Associate Professor of Art History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to work on a book.Ms. Judith Shatin, Associate Professor of Music, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.Mr. Jonathan S. Skinner, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at Harvard University and to do research.Mr. David G. Smith, Associate Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Ms. Elaine B. Steen, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period February 17, 1992 through March 31, 1992, to continue temporary disability leave.Ms. Elaine B. Steen, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period April 1, 1992 through May 15, 1992, for Modified Service Leave under the Faculty Leave Policy.Dr. James W. Stone, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period July 1, 1992 through August 31, 1992, for health reasons.Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period May 4, 1992 through June 30, 1992, for personal reasons.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard N. Day from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Cary N. Fishburne from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Gerald P. Fogarty from Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies and Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Tanya Furman from Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. George T. Gillies from Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics and Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Mark L. Hartman from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Janet R. Horne from Acting Assistant Professor of French to Assistant Professor of French, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1994.Mr. Robert G. Kelly from Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science to Research Assistant Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Theodore S. Thomas from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective March 16, 1992.Mr. Ronald D. Williams from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective February 1, 1992.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Kathleen M. Balutansky, Assistant Professor of English, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Susan H. Blanton, Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective February 29, 1992, to accept a salaried position in the Department of Pediatrics.Dr. Cathleen Clancy, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, to accept a salaried position in the Department of Internal Medicine.Dr. Jorge A. Cortina, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective March 3, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Rolf Densing, Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective May 15, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Richard I. Enelow, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, to accept an appointment as Instructor in the Department of Internal Medicine.Mr. Robert H. Evans, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Grace E. Fielder, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Laurence P. Ince, Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective April 2, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Mark W. Keller, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Waldo E. Martin, Jr., Professor of History, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. John M. McGuigan, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective February 28, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Sally A. Moody, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Susan D. Moss, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1992, to enter private practice.Ms. Stefanie H. Newman, Assistant Professor of Studio Art, effective May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. B. Ann Normansell, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective May 31, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Kunio Takeyasu, Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective June 30, 1992, to accept another position.Ms. Paula M. Wenger, Instructor in Business Administration, effective February 29, 1992, to accept another position.Dr. Perry S. Westerman, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective March 31, 1992, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following Retirements were announced: Mr. Frank E. Flora, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Flora has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Professor, effective June 30, 1993. Mr. Frantz has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Moore has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Michael J. Bednar as Associate Dean for Academics, School of Architecture, for the period January 15, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Bonnie Guiton as Dean, School of Commerce, for five years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Diane G. Hillman as Assistant to the Vice President for Health Sciences, part time, for the period March 6, 1992 through December 6, 1992.Ms. Deborah E. McDowell as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Peter A. Metcalf as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani as Chair, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Frederick S. Richardson as Chair, Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Munsey S. Wheby as Senior Associate Dean and Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education, School of Medicine, for the period July 1, 1992 through March 31, 1996.Ms. Margaret M. Williams as Assistant to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for the period April 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. David J. Burger as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Dean for Medical Alumni Affairs, for the period April 1, 1992 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Nevin E. Kessler as Assistant Dean, School of Commerce, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. L. Jay Lemons as Assistant to the President, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Joanne R. Mahanes as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Michael A. Mallory as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Michael Menaker as Chair, Department of Biology, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Hilary L. Morgan as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Thomas L. Pearce as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Sherilyn W. Poole as Associate Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Eugene R. Seeloff as Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Sylvia V. Terry as Assistant Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Lawrence E. Thomas as Chair, Department of Mathematics, for two years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William M. Wilson as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Franklyn N. Arnhoff, John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology and University Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Ray W. Frantz, Professor, effective June 30, 1993.Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, effective June 30, 1992.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 31, 1992.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Frank E. Flora, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1992.Mr. Morris W. Jones, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective May 31, 1991.

DEATHS
------

CHANGE IN RETIREMENT OF MR. DONALD W. KUPKE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1992, as shown in the Minutes of March 28, 1992, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Donald W. Kupke, Professor of Biochemistry, effective June 30, 1992. Mr. Kupke has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1956.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGELEAVES OF ABSENCE
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. D. Michael Donathan, Associate Professor of Music, Clinch Valley College, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research and write textbooks.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Roy L. Wells, Associate Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WALTER N. MUNSTER PROFESSORSHIP FOR RESEARCH IN INTELLIGENCE ENHANCEMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Walter N. Munster Professorship for Research in Intelligence Enhancement, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. Walter N. Munster who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT M. BERNE PROFESSORSHIP IN CARDIOVASCULAR RESEARCH
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Robert M. Berne Professorship in Cardiovascular Research, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete.

CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN DIAGNOSTIC RADIOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Distinguished Professorship in Diagnostic Radiology is hereby renamed the Theodore E. Keats Professorship in Radiology.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW M.S. AND PH.D. DEGREE PROGRAMS IN STATISTICS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS, ARTS AND SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the degree titles Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Statistics be and they are hereby established in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education.

ELIMINATION OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE DEGREE IN NUCLEAR ENGINEERING IN THE ACADEMIC YEAR 1994-1995
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that no further first-year applicants be accepted into the undergraduate nuclear engineering degree program and that the degree title Bachelor of Sciences in Nuclear Engineering be discontinued upon graduation of those students presently in the program. These actions by the Board of Visitors are subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. Waller H. Horsley abstained from voting).RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated May 22, 1992, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Power Company which grants a thirty (30) foot wide easement of right-of-way with a ten (10) foot wide branch and a fifteen (15) foot wide easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain electric power lines across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of Lane Road and 15th Street in the Health Sciences area, be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1992-1993 Budget for the Academic Division as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Finance Committee, at its meeting on May 12, 1992, expressed the desire for more specificity in the use of #21,130,000 included in the 1992-1993 capital budget of the Medical Center;RESOLVED that the 1992-1993 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved with the exception of the $21,130,000 amount. The Medical Center is directed to present a specific plan outlining the use of these funds for consideration by the Board of Visitors at its October 1992 meeting.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1992-1993 Budget for Clinch Valley College as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and the Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in Arts and Sciences in an amount not to exceed $2,320,000 for 1992-93, as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the Special Advisory Committee on Pratt Funds of the Center for Advanced Studies, and as approved by the President and the Finance Committee, be and they are hereby approved. To the extent that annual income from the endowment is not adequate the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1993 MEDICAL CENTER ANCILLARY SERVICE RATES
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the rates for ancillary services in the University of Virginia Medical Center be and they are hereby increased by an amount not to exceed 4.0%, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1992.

WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 1,952,401.34

Indigent Care

14,531,346.53

\-------------

Total

$16,483,747.87

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the March 16, 1992 meeting which include the write-offs for the months of January and February 1992, totaling $16,483,747.87, and consisting of the following: Bad Debt$ 1,952,401.34Indigent Care14,531,346.53-------------Total$16,483,747.87 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO SEEK STATE APPROVAL OF PHASED EARLY RETIREMENT INCENTIVES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia has an incentive retirement plan approved by the State which expires June 30, 1992; andWHEREAS the University of Virginia desires to continue to make available a phased program for early retirement;RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized: (a) to make sure adjustments to the University's incentive retirement plan as are determined to be desirable and necessary on the basis of current reviews, so long as the basic and substantive concepts remain consistent with the standards previously approved by the Board of Visitors, and (b) to submit the phased incentive retirement proposal to the appropriate State authorities for approval.

APPROVAL OF THE REPORT OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1991-1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuition and Fees

$117,519

Uncollectible Salary Payments to Former Employees

37,829

Auxiliary Services Fines and Charges

45,918

University Student Loans

24,615

Library Fines and Charges

19,002

Other Charges

46,054

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University Bad Debts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts the following accounts totaling $290,937, for the fiscal year 1991-1992: Tuition and Fees$117,519Uncollectible Salary Payments to Former Employees37,829Auxiliary Services Fines and Charges45,918University Student Loans24,615Library Fines and Charges19,002Other Charges46,054 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL FOR THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO DISINVEST PRINCIPAL OF THE UNRESTRICTED QUASI-ENDOWMENT TO FUND PRE-CAPITAL CAMPAIGN EXPENSES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University needs to expand its Development operation before initiating the Capital Campaign; andWHEREAS income from the unrestricted endowment is insufficient to fund the level of expenditures necessary; andWHEREAS a permanent funding mechanism for supporting an expanded development effort must be devised.NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to disinvest up to $2,000,000 from principal of the unrestricted quasi-endowment as needed to fund additional operating expenses incurred by the Development Office for its pre-campaign activities. The Chief Financial Officer will be required to report to the Board of Visitors, on a quarterly basis, the amount disinvested.

APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO THE AUDIT DEPARTMENT'S CHARTER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the changes to the Audit Department's charter, specifically to include the adoption of the Institute of Internal Auditors' standards for the professional practice of internal auditing as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF REVISION IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$2,300

$350

15.2%

$2,650 \* \*Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650

$4,260

$1,764

41.4%

$6,024 \*\* \*\*Tuition $5,338 + Fees $686 = $6,024

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour

$69

$12

17.4%

$81

$151

$71

47.0%

$222

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$69

$12

17.4%

$81

$105

$48

45.7%

$153

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$25

$3

12.0%

$28

$55

$25

45.5%

$80

Meal Plan

19 meals per week

$1,550

$50

3.2%

$1,600

$1,550

$50

3.2%

$1,600

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

\--

\--

$15

$15

\--

\--

$15

Applied Music Fee

$120

\--

\--

$120

$120

\--

\--

$120

Student Teaching Fee

$100

\--

\--

$100

$100

\--

\--

$100

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404, and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

A registration fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. The graduation fee will be $50 per year.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1992: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Actual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$2,300$35015.2%$2,650 \* \*Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650 $4,260$1,76441.4%$6,024 \*\* \*\*Tuition $5,338 + Fees $686 = $6,024 Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below. Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour$69$1217.4%$81$151$7147.0%$222Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$69$1217.4%$81$105$4845.7%$153Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$25$312.0%$28$55$2545.5%$80Meal Plan19 meals per week$1,550$503.2%$1,600$1,550$503.2%$1,600Other FeesApplication Fee$15----$15$15----$15Applied Music Fee$120----$120$120----$120Student Teaching Fee$100----$100$100----$100The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404, and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.A registration fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. The graduation fee will be $50 per year.

Tuition $1,964 + Fees $686 = $2,650

Tuition $5,338 + Fees $686 = $6,024

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby appointed to terms on the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council:a. For a term ending June 30, 1993: Joe Tom Howard Eliza Sutton Riggb. For a term ending June 30, 1995: Vincent Matthews, III Norman S. Propper, M.D.c. For a term ending June 30, 1996: Kenneth P. Asbury Thomas K. Henritze Rhonda M. Miller William Douglas Humphreys

RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION TO PARTICIPATE IN COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA 9-C BOND ISSUE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, in 1983, the Board of Visitors (the "Board") of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") adopted a resolution (A) authorizing the financing of the Clinch Valley Student Union, Newcomb Hall Additions and Student Housing (together, the "1983 projects") through the issuance by the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") of $8,385,000 of its $57,015,000 Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, 1983 Series D, E, F and G (the "1983 Bonds") and (B) pledging certain revenues derived from or related to the 1983 Projects to the payment of that portion of the 1983 Bonds;WHEREAS, in 1985, the Board adopted a resolution (A) authorizing the financing of the Observatory Dining Hall Addition, Sponsor's Hall Addition and Student Activity Building (together, the "1985 Projects") through the issuance by the Commonwealth of $3,250,000 of its $24,690,000 Higher Educational Institutions Bonds, Series 1985 (the "1985 Bonds") and (B) pledging certain revenues derived from or related to the 1985 Projects to the payment of that portion of the 1985 Bonds;WHEREAS, to lower the aggregate debt service payments owed on the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds, the Commonwealth proposes to refund some or all of the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds through the issuance of the Commonwealth's Article X, Section 9(c) Higher Educational Institutions Refunding Bonds, Series 1992 (the "Refunding Bonds"), all as permitted by the Commonwealth of Virginia Article X, Section 9(c) Refunding Bond Act of 1992, Chapter 265 of the Virginia Acts of Assembly of 1992 (the "Act"); andWHEREAS, the effect of the refunding of some or all of the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds will be to reduce the aggregate debt service payments owed by the University with respect to the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Board acknowledges that the Commonwealth intends to issue the Refunding Bonds in order to lower the aggregate debt service payments due on the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds. This will have the effect of reducing the aggregate debt service payments owed by the University with respect to at least some, if not all of the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects. The Board further acknowledges and agrees that the University has an obligation to pay its proportionate share of debt service and other costs owed with respect to the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects, whether such payments are due on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds, on the same terms on which the University is currently making payments relating to the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds. The University further acknowledges that the Commonwealth will determine which of the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects will be refunded with the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds.Section 2. The Board acknowledges and agrees that, as stated in Section 8 of the Act, upon the issuance of the Refunding Bonds, the net revenues derived from or related to the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects previously pledged to the payment of the 1983 Bonds and the 1985 Bonds, respectively, also will be pledged to that portion of the Refunding Bonds allocable to the 1983 Projects and the 1985 Projects.Section 3. The Board covenants that the University will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (the "1954 Code"), or Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "1986 Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the holders thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the University will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Refunding Bonds.Section 4. The Board covenants that the University has not and will not permit the proceeds of the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds and the Refunding Bonds, on an aggregate basis, to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 25% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 103 of the 1954 Code, (b) 25% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 103 of the 1954 Code considered as being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit or (c) 25% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 103(o) of the 1954 Code. The University need not comply with such covenants if the University obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds and the Refunding Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 5. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, the University will not enter into any additional operating lease, management contract or similar agreement (or any amendment to any existing lease, management contract or similar agreement) with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the 1983 Projects or the 1985 Projects without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering in to such agreement will not cause the interest on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 6. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds are outstanding, the University will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the 1983 Projects or the 1985 Projects or allow any 1983 Project or 1985 Project to cease being a revenue producing capital project of the University within the meaning of the Act without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition or cessation will not cause interest on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes and will not otherwise violate the Act.Section 7. The officers of the University are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Refunding Bonds.Section 8. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Refunding Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Refunding Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds and the Refunding Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board and the University so long as any of the 1983 Bonds, the 1985 Bonds or the Refunding Bonds are outstanding.Section 9. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

RESOLUTION REGARDING UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS sundry foundations are organized and operated to benefit the University of Virginia or one or more of the University's schools and departments;WHEREAS in recent years the University has developed agreements and adopted policies that describe the role of these affiliated foundations and regulate their relationship with the University, as manifested by a standard "Foundation Agreement" initiated in 1987, the "Management Principles and Guidelines Pertaining to University-Related Foundations" adopted by the Board of Visitors in 1989, and the establishment of the External Relations Committee of the Board of Visitors in 1991;WHEREAS the policy provisions embodied in the "Foundation Agreement" and the "Management Principles and Guidelines" stipulate specific standards, highlighted below, that are designed to ensure that University-related foundations are operated in accordance with sound managerial and accountability principles, and in a manner consistent with the University's purpose and mission: Board approval of new foundations and subsidiaries; University representation on foundation boards of directors; distribution of foundation assets to the University upon dissolution; advance review of changes in foundation charter and bylaws; restricted use of University name, logo, and seal; foundation legal responsibility for debts, contracts, and torts; sponsorship of educational programs; deposit of funds and gifts; transfer of assets, loans, and other foundation-University business transactions; access to, and reimbursement for, use of University personnel, facilities, or other services; procurement and conflict of interest rules; audit and financial accountability measures;annual financial reports and supplemental submissions detailing noteworthy foundation activities and expenditures;WHEREAS in anticipation of the Capital Campaign and the critical need to coordinate all fund-raising activities undertaken on the University's behalf; in recognition of particular problems revealed by the recently concluded inquiry of the University's athletic program and the operations of its affiliated foundation; and in furtherance of the University's overriding interest to promote efficiency and accountability among, as well as maintain independence and integrity within, all University-related foundations, the Board of Visitors believes that it is appropriate to re-examine and to reinforce, where appropriate, policy provisions pertaining to University-related foundations;RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and hereby is directed to undertake a thorough review of all University policy provisions pertaining to University-related foundations, and to prepare, with the advice and assistance of appropriate University offices including the General Counsel, a revised policy that, among other things, accommodates the following objectives:(1) consolidates the requirements contained in the "Foundation Agreement" and the "Principles and Guidelines" into one policy document that has overarching application to all University-related foundations;(2) establishes expectations regarding the nature and scope of foundation activities, consistent with the precise purpose contemplated when the foundation was created;(3) increases University representation on foundation boards of directors and executive committees;(4) stipulates basic standards for foundation protocols encompassing such areas as procurement, personnel, conflicts of interest, non-discrimination, investments, insurance, and gifts acceptance;(5) coordinates fund-raising and development policies and activities;(6) mandates periodic submission of foundation financial and operational reports;(7) prescribes University review of foundation budgets and personnel compensation contracts; and(8) describes administrative staffing responsibility, under the direction of the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to ensure sufficient University monitoring of the foundations' compliance with pertinent University policies.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer circulate any proposed policy changes among the various foundations for their review and comment;RESOLVED FURTHER that any such proposal be subsequently presented to the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF GIFT CREDITING AND VALUATION POLICY
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Gift Crediting and Valuation Policy (See Attachment A) be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period March 1, 1992, through April 30, 1992, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF STATEMENT ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board, the President, and the University community share a sincere interest in the widest possible public discussion of matters of University policy and practice related to minorities and women;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the President shall report annually on such matters; that the President shall arrange for interim reports as he may deem appropriate and timely at other times; and that this resolution shall be effective for five years from this date.BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board reaffirms its pledge, and its call upon all members of the University community, to take all possible steps to increase the meaningful participation of minorities in every aspect of the University - as faculty, as students and as staff members.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants, and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: May 22, 1992

WHEREAS, the Audit Committee of the Board has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Audit Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Audit Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Audit Committee.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

absent

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

J. Scott Ballenger

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on May 22, 1992 at 9:15 a.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieabsentFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallabsentJ. Scott Ballengeryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: May 22, 1992

WHEREAS, the External Affairs Committee has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this External Affairs Comm. that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the External Affairs Comm. hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the External Affairs Comm.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

J. Scott Ballenger

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on May 22, 1992 at 3:15 p.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallabsentJ. Scott Ballengeryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: May 23, 1992

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

J. Scott Ballenger

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on May 23, 1992 at 8:30 a.m. a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallabsentJ. Scott Ballengeryes

ATTACHMENT A THE CAMPAIGN FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA GIFT CREDITING AND VALUATION POLICY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. GENERAL

A. Gifts received and commitments made during the period of July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1998 will be credited to the Campaign, including annual, capital and endowed gifts, matured bequests, and irrevocable life insurance gifts.

B. Gifts received prior to July 1, 1993 may, under certain circumstances, be credited to the Campaign. These circumstances include:

1\. Endowed and Capital Gifts to the Darden School and Jefferson Scholars campaigns. These fund raising efforts constitute the first phase of the Campaign for the University of Virginia.

2\. Gifts received for projects/programs designated as priorities in the "Plan for the Year 2000." The size of gift should be at the prospect's maximum giving potential.

3\. Selected gifts received where the donor requires the gift to count as part of his/her Campaign commitment.

4\. All of the above are to be counted only after review and approval of the President and the Vice President for Development.

C. Pledges exceeding five years will be considered on an individual basis by the Gifts Policy Committee.

D. Oral pledges must be confirmed in writing before they are counted. Donors will be encouraged, insofar as possible, to state their philanthropic intentions in a letter or memorandum, even though such statements may be informal and non-binding. Failing this, the solicitor will record his/her own understanding of the terms of the oral commitment and submit it via letter to the donor for written confirmation or modification.

E. Gifts are to be valued and credited on the date the University gains control of the assets. The amounts reported are to be arrived at without regard to the donor's personal estimation of the gift value.

F. Naming of commemorative gifts for new construction (or a portion thereof) will be accepted if equal to at least 50% of the total private cost of the project. Other naming gift opportunities relating to existing facilities are available and negotiable.

II. CURRENT ANNUAL, CAPITAL AND ENDOWED GIFTS

A. Cash, securities, written pledges, and gifts of tangible assets are to be credited at full value. A donor may include in his or her pledge an explicit provision for altering the time period of the pledge if his or her personal circumstance were to change substantially.

B. Gifts of securities are to be credited at market value on the date the University gains control of the assets. Neither losses nor gains realized by the sale of the securities after their receipt, nor brokerage fees or other expenses associated with the transaction are to affect the gift value.

C. Corporate matching gifts will be recorded according to the policies and procedures of the company matching the gift. Matching gifts will be credited to the donor as annual or capital gifts. If a donor wants his or her matching gift to follow the original gift into a restricted fund, every effort will be made to accommodate the request.

III. GIFTS OF REAL ESTATE AND PERSONAL PROPERTY

A. Gifts of real estate and personal property--such as land, residential housing, income producing property, paintings, antiques, and rare books--are to be valued by an independent, expert appraiser paid for and retained by the donor. The University retains the right to receive its own independent appraisal for property with a market price of $250,000 or more.

B. Gifts of real estate must undergo an environmental study and zoning assessment before they are accepted by the University.

C. Small gifts of real and personal property--such as rare books or prints--with an apparent worth of less than $5,000 may be valued by someone with knowledge in the field, and that informal valuation may be used for reporting purposes.

D. Gifts of real estate and personal property, if accepted by the University, will be credited to the campaign goals at the appraised fair market value.

E. Gifts of real estate, personal property or gifts-in-kind which are retained by the University for its own collection are to be counted in a separate column.

F. Gifts accepted by the University which may become part of the University's inventory (generally, property held for sale in the course of the donor's trade or business), will be credited to the Campaign at fair market value. Special approvals are required for gifts of computing resources or gifts of materials requiring the execution of a contract with a vendor.

IV. PLANNED GIFTS

A. Gifts to establish charitable remainder trusts, contributions to pooled income funds, and gift annuities are to be credited at fair market value.

1\. Regarding trusts administered by others, the value of the assets in trust that the donor has chosen to have administered by others is to be included in the gift totals provided the trust is irrevocable and the University of is an irrevocable beneficiary. The University must have a copy of the trust agreement.

B. In crediting charitable lead trusts, only the income received from the lead trust each year during the period of the Campaign (or a five year period) is to be reported in the gift totals.

C. Paid bequests, outright bequests from estates in probate, and any additional payments on previous bequests received during the campaign are to be given full credit for the amount received.

D. For individuals age 70 or over by June 30, 1998, properly documented and realistically valued bequest expectancies are to be recognized at full value if the bequest is to be received outright from the testator's estate or if the bequest is in the form of a remainder interest which has no more than two beneficiaries, both of whom are to be 70 or over by June 30, 1998. They will not be counted toward the Campaign goal but noted as "future support".

1\. Bequest expectancies are to be reported separately so as to emphasize the fact that the proceeds therefrom will likely not be available to complete the goals of the Campaign. Each donor will be encouraged to include with his or her bequest intention a gift of cash or securities to help complete campaign goals.

2\. All donors will be encouraged to provide in their wills for payment by charitable bequest of any unpaid portions of a Campaign pledge.

E. In crediting gifts of insurance the University must be named both beneficiary and irrevocable owner of an insurance policy before the policy is to be recorded as a gift.

1\. The cash surrender value of the policy when given, rather than its face value, is the amount to be credited as a gift.

2\. If the donor pays further premiums on the policy, the premiums are to be included in the gift totals.

3\. If University elects to pay the premiums, the institution should consider those payments as operating expenditures and not report increases in the cash surrender value as gifts.

4\. Regardless of whether the donor or the University pays the premiums on the policy it owns, the difference between the cash value and the insurance company's settlement at the death of the donor should not be reported as a gift but rather as a gain on the disposition of assets.

5\. In those cases where the University receives the proceeds of an insurance policy in which it was named beneficiary but not owner, the full amount received is to be reported as a gift.

V. GOVERNMENT AND NON GOVERNMENT GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

A. A differentiation must be made between gifts, grants and contracts when reporting. Grant income from private, non-government sources should be included in the gift totals; contract revenue should not be included.

B. A private grant is bestowed voluntarily and without expectation of any tangible compensation; it is donative in nature.

1\. Whereas UVa has the legal responsibility of using funds received as gifts and grants for the purpose specified by its donors, its obligation to the donor usually does not, and probably should not, exceed the limit of the gift.

2\. UVa's responsibility under a contract, on the other hand, normally involves the generation of some tangible product or service, such as a report of research, often for the exclusive or proprietary use of the contracting agency and subject to certain standards of performance, and the expectation of economic benefit on the part of the grantor.

C. Government grants, whether local, state, federal or foreign, are not to be included in the Campaign gift totals.

VI. EXCLUSIONS

The following type of funds will be excluded from campaign report totals:

A. Gifts or pledges, outright and deferred, which already have been counted in previous campaigns, even if realized during the campaign, even if realized during the campaign reporting period.

B. Investment earnings on gifts, even if accrued during the time period of the campaign and even if required within the terms specified by a donor source.

C. Earned-income transfer payments from medical or analogous practice plans.

D. Surplus-income transfers from ticket-based operations.

GIFTS POLICY COMMITTEE AND GIFT LIMITATIONS THE CAMPAIGN for the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Gifts Policy Committee

A. Responsibility

Approved crediting policies will cover the majority of anticipated commitments. However, in the event that situations or opportunities occur during the course of the Campaign for which these guidelines are inadequate, there will be a Gift Policy Committee which shall be empowered to resolve any questions regarding acceptance, valuation, and crediting.

The Gifts Policy Committee will approve or disapprove all gifts-in-kind to the university that are not immediately convertible to cash and all gifts-in-kind that have donor-imposed restrictions as to their disposition.

As necessary, recommendations of the Gifts Policy Committee will be forwarded to the Board of Visitors for final approval.

B. Membership

The Gifts Policy Committee will consist of the following:

1\. Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

2\. Provost

3\. Vice President for Development

4\. Associate Vice President for Development

5\. Treasurer

6\. Director of Planned Giving

C. Meeting Schedule

Meetings of the Gifts Policy Committee will be called as necessary by the Associate Vice President for Development, who will serve as chairman of the committee.

II Gift Limitations

Gifts with limitations based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual preference or national origin cannot be accepted by the University of Virginia, except in instances where, after review by the Gifts Policy Committee, such gifts are determined to be non-discriminatory because of the general availability of other gifts or resources.

The following gift stipulations also cannot be accepted by the University for scholarships, fellowships, or other financial aid funds:

A. Those in which a donor designates a specific recipient;

B. Those designating as recipient the donor's relative or descendants;

C. Those based on the future employment of the recipient.

III. Gift Recording

The Gift Recording Department of the University Development Office shall oversee the receipt, recording, depositing, and acknowledgment of all private contributions to the University. Gift Recording in turn will assure that appropriate departments, schools, or fund raising units are notified in a timely fashion regarding contributions restricted for their use.
