---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1992'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA January 23, 1992
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:00 p.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, January 23, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and Jesse B. Wilson, III. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Don E. Detmer, Thomas H. Jackson, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:00 p.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, January 25, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney, Don E. Detmer and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of December 7, 1991, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

OVERVIEW OF THE MEETING
-----------------------

The Rector asked Provost Thomas H. Jackson to give a synopsis, in the absence of the President, of matters to be considered at the January meeting of the Board of Visitors.

Among other items, Mr. Jackson noted that the January meeting will be the last full Board of Visitors' meeting for the Rector, Mr. Edward E. Elson, and two of his colleagues, Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. He said that they have given exceptional and devoted service to the University and that they will be sorely missed.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussion and consideration of reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs including University General Accounting, Parking and Transportation Services, the Bursar's Office, Medical Center Computing, Patient Transportation Services and Indirect Cost Recovery Proposal as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A. (1) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing fund-raising activities in preparation for the Capital Campaign as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the proposed investment of University funds in certain real estate transactions involving the University Real Estate Foundation; and a proposed ground lease and agreement with the Darden Sponsors Foundation concerning the construction and donation of academic and related facilities for the Darden School as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (3) and (6) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 4:00 p.m., on Saturday, January 25, 1992.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Kusum L. Ailawadi as Instructor in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. David J. Ballard as Associate Professor of Epidemiology, effective August 16, 1991.Ms. Amy H. Bouton as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective November 1, 1991.Ms. Patricia Camacho as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Adrienne Cannon as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.Mr. Thomas B. Carlson as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. David N. Cooper as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Donna Cregan-Lambert as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Gia Ann DeAngelis as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective October 7, 1991.Dr. Jacques E. Dion as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective September 16, 1991.Mr. Georges B. Dreyfus as Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Kim A. Eggleston as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Keith A. Falconer as Lecturer in Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Gertrude J. Fraser as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Keith E. Friend as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John W. Garland as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective October 1, 1991.Mr. David N. Gibson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 9, 1991.Dr. Mary B. Graham as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Diana Greene as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Chang S. Hahn as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Teresa M. Haller as Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Shelley L. Halpain as Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Timothy A. Haystead as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective September 16, 1991.Ms. Diane B. Himwich as Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Anthony G. Hirschel as Lecturer, General Faculty, for five years, effective December 1, 1991.Ms. Beth C. Hodsdon as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Claire G. Holman as Lecturer in Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Mary E. Jensen as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective October 1, 1991.Mr. Steve A. Kay as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective January 1, 1992.Ms. Susan E. Kennel as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John C. Kirchgessner as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. James D. Lechleiter as Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for three years, effective October 1, 1991.Dr. Ryan E. Lesh as Instructor in Physiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Mr. Jean-Louis Leutrat as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Deborah J. Lewis as Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 22, 1991.Ms. Sharon E. Lock as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Jane R. Maggard as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 19, 1991.Ms. Judith M. Malachowski as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Maureen F. McKone as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty and Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Dr. John S. Minasi as Lecturer in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.Ms. Lynn R. Noland as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Sharon O'Brien as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Eugene J. Olmi, III as Acting Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Kenneth R. Olson as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Joseph J. Pancrazio as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Mr. Appavoo Rengasamy as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Diane L. Rosin as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Abraham Segres as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Corinne M. Skeens as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for three years, effective November 1, 1991.Mr. Terence K. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1991.Mr. Raul Susmel as Lecturer in Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Kirstin D. Thompson as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period November 18, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Nancy A. Tramontin as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 1, 1992 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Robert M. Umek as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Carolyn J. Weir as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Douglas F. Willson as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective October 1, 1991.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Dr. Bruce J. Hillman as Distinguished Professor of Diagnostic Radiology, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Rodolfo Machado as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for the period October 16, 1991 through December 15, 1991.Dr. Ladislau E. Steiner as Alumni Professor of Neurosurgery, effective October 1, 1991.(b) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Wills Johnson Professor of Chemical Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Dr. Eric W. Lothman, Eugene Meyer, III, Professor of Neuroscience, with pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through August 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research.(c) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)Dr. Irving L. Kron from Distinguished Professor of Surgery to William H. Muller, Jr., Professor of Surgery, effective November 1, 1991.(d) Retirement of Chairholder(s)Mr. David Levin, Thomas Jefferson Professor of Arts and Sciences, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Levin has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1971.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Alumni Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Whitehead has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1956.(e) Appointment of Chairholder(s)Dr. Bruce J. Hillman as Chair, Department of Radiology, for five years, effective January 1, 1992.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Laurie H. Abraham as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Marva A. Barnett as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James R. Barrett as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Stuart S. Berr as Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Linda K. Blum as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, part time, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Dr. Stephen M. Borowitz as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Professor of Architecture, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Barbara A. Boyce as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Valentina L. Brashers as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Susan E. Brodt as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Suzanne M. Burns as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. James T. Callahan as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Janis C. Childs as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. G. Rees Cosgrove as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective August 1, 1991.Mr. Richard R. Curnish as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period September 1, 1991 through August 31, 1992.Mr. Robert E. Davis as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Donal B. Day as Research Associate Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Neto E. De Arruda as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period August 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Anne-Marie Deval-Lemley as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Pieter A. Dijkwel as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Bertram Donn as Visiting Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. James J. Dowd, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Charles G. Drake as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective November 1, 1991.Mr. Keith N. Eshleman as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Zhichu Fang as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period November 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992.Mr. Jay E. Farina as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective November 16, 1991.Ms. Jonquil D. Feldman as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1991.Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Langdon Gilkey as Scholar in Residence in Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Doris F. Glick as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Joseph L. Glick as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Mary L. Glover as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Gary J. Gorbsky as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Patty J. Hale as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John K. Haviland as Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, part time, for the period September 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.Mr. Gary L. Hawk as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Susan Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for the period September 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.Mr. Tetsundo Iwakuni as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Benjamin R. Jacobson as Professor of Business Administration, part time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 9, 1991.Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr. as Scholar in Residence in History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Daniel P. Jordan as Scholar in Residence in History, for one academic year, effective July 1, 1992.Mr. Volker Kaiser as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. James R. Kerrigan as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Suzette M. Kimball as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 6, 1991.Ms. Anne B. Kinney as Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Virginia K. Lee as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Jeanne M. Liedtka as Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.Mr. Richard A. Lindgren as Research Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. John W. Lloyd as Research Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert W. Lourie as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Jay A. McDonald as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Elizabeth A. Meyer as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. William H. Myers as Visiting Scholar in Chemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Katherine B. Nuckolls as Visiting Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Joanne H. Peach as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Jesse R. Pitts as Scholar in Residence in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. John H. Porter as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective February 1, 1992.Mr. G. Carleton Ray as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1989 through May 31, 1992.Mr. Prem-Veer G. Reddy as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 15, 1991.Mr. Judson P. Reiss as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Mary E. Ropka as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.Ms. Betty H. Sapir as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. John B. Schorling as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period September 19, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Nancy Schwartz as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. H. Stephen Sharp as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. George F. Shuster as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Edward A. Smith, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for the period September 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.Ms. Vickie H. Southall as Instructor in Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Dr. Richard B. Sporik as Visiting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Mr. Stephen H. Sprigle as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for two years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. David A. Steiner as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective October 1, 1991.Dr. Melita Steiner as Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Stroud as Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Michael D. Swartz as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Kunio Takeyasu as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Jeanne M. Toungara as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. June L. Triplette as Visiting Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.Ms. Carol S. Trosset as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Stephen M. Tuel as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for the period January 1, 1992 through January 3, 1992.Mr. Paul A. Vanden Bout as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Clyde M. Watson, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Catherine J. Webb as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.Dr. Kathryn L. Weise as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Ellen M. Whitener as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Ms. Nancy M. Coddington from Research Instructor in Physiology to Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Lynn E. Gardella from Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. J. Taylor Beard, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Ms. Donna R. Buck, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, with pay, for the period September 12, 1991 through October 23, 1991, for medical reasons.Ms. Mary L. Bun, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to continue to qualify for the phased retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Kathryn B. Feuer, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, without pay, for the period November 16, 1991 through May 31, 1992, for medical reasons.Ms. Patty J. Hale, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to continue doctoral study.Mr. Timothy R. Hinkin, Assistant Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Dr. Ismail H. Ihmeidan, Assistant Professor of Radiology, without pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 7, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Betty M. Johnson, Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, without pay, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Research Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to continue educational leave.Mr. Hugh S. Landes, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to continue to qualify for the phased retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Geoffrey P. Lewis, Associate Professor of Business Administration, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at the University of Melbourne.Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. John M. McGuigan, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992, for medical reasons.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to continue the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Mr. Harold S. Morton, Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Ms. Janet M. Paarlberg, Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, without pay, for the period October 31, 1991 through June 30, 1992, for educational purposes.Ms. Joyce G. Pastors, Instructor in Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, with partial pay, for the period November 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991, for Modified Service Leave under the Family Leave Policy for Faculty.Ms. Angelika S. Powell, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, without pay, for the period October 1, 1991 through January 31, 1992, for agency convenience.Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period October 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991, because of insufficient grant funds.Ms. Mary E. Ropka, Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Jorge E. Secada, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to be visiting professor at the University of British Columbia.Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.Mr. Robert I. Webb, Associate Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Robert N. West, Assistant Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Ms. Carol C. Yeakey, Professor of Education, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through January 15, 1994, to assume position of Assistant Provost at DePaul University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Ms. Marcia A. Delcourt from Assistant Professor of Education to Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Vinko V. Dolenc from Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery to Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Abbey Fischman from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.Mr. John K. Hayden from Instructor in History to Lecturer, General Faculty, part time, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Dr. Maria D. Kelly from Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Denis A. Leong from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Eric W. Lott from Acting Assistant Professor of English to Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Richard B. Martin from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library and Lecturer in Religious Studies, for the period September 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Dr. Joan McIlHenny from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary from Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Tejumola Olaniyan from Acting Assistant Professor of English to Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Timothy S. Prinz from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Karen B. Rendleman from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period November 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Robert J. Sack from Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Edward M. Spencer from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Marie T. Stafford from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Linda A. Swank from Acting Assistant Professor of Education to Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.Dr. Dorothy G. Tompkins from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, part time to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, part time, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Enrique R. Torre from Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience to Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. Paul A. Vanden Bout from Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering to Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for the period September 1, 1991 through August 31, 1992.Ms. Janet I. Warren from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.Ms. Margot L. White from Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 1, 1991.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Mett B. Ausley, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective August 15, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Kenneth A. Carle, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective October 31, 1991, to enter private practice.Mr. Tony L. Crunk, Lecturer in Commerce, effective January 15, 1992, for personal reasons.Dr. Karl Eurenius, Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective August 8, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Daniel P. Harrington, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Sandra D. Hobbs, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 6, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Suzette M. Kimball, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective October 5, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Michael S. Lundy, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, effective June 1, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Klaus D. Luthardt, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective April 1, 1992, for personal reasons.Ms. Joyce F. MacDonald, Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective September 30, 1991, to accept a classified position.Dr. Takamichi Matsuki, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective November 28, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Sheila McMillen, Lecturer in English, effective January 15, 1992, to write a book.Mr. David G. Meyer, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 15, 1992, to accept another position.Mr. Ravinda Munshi, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Brent M. Myers, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 2, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. David J. Rissmeyer, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective August 10, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Jerry D. Rupert, Instructor, General Faculty, effective September 7, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner, Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective August 24, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Gregory G. Simoncini, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 1, 1991, to accept another position.Mr. Dennis Slon, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 30, 1991, to accept another position.Ms. Sally B. Smith, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. Terence K. Smith, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 31, 1991, for personal reasons.Mr. William R. Stewart, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective November 25, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Michael D. Sussman, Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation and Professor of Pediatrics, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Kuldeep Teja, Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, effective October 31, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. Frederic B. Westervelt, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992, for personal reasons.Mr. David G. White, Lecturer in Religious Studies, effective January 15, 1992, to pursue independent research.Ms. Ellen W. Wilfong, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Dejarnette Center, effective August 2, 1991, for personal reasons.Dr. Maryanne D. Williams, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 5, 1991, for personal reasons.Ms. Linda C. Winner, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective October 1, 1991, to accept another position.Dr. John J. Yazel, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective December 31, 1991, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following Retirements were announced: Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992. Dr. Mohler has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1960.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1991. Dr. Paulsen has been a member of the faculty since May 1, 1968.Ms. Dora L. Wiebenson, Professor of Architectural History, effective May 31, 1992. Ms. Wiebenson has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1977.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Daniel T. Devereux as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.Mr. Robert W. Freer as Assistant Treasurer and Director of Investments, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.Mr. John W. Garland as Associate General Counsel, for two years, effective October 1, 1991.Mr. John K. Hayden as Assistant Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Ms. Beth C. Hodsdon as Associate General Counsel, for two years, effective October 1, 1991.Ms. Andrea F. Rowland as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Acting Dean, School of Law, until Thomas H. Jackson returns from service as the Interim Vice President and Provost or until a permanent dean is appointed, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Moses K. Woode as Associate Dean for Academic Support, School of Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.

REAPPOINTMENTS
--------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Maurice Apprey as Associate Dean for Minority Affairs, School of Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Mr. Gary K. Owens as Assistant Dean for Graduate Research and Training, for three years, effective January 1, 1992.Dr. Thomas W. Tillack as Chairman, Department of Pathology, for five years, effective August 1, 1991.Ms. Christine M. Zunz as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. David Levin, Thomas Jefferson Professor of Arts and Sciences, effective May 31, 1992.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1992.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Alumni Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1992.Ms. Dora L. Wiebenson, Professor of Architectural History, effective May 31, 1992.

DEATHS
------

CHANGE IN LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. MALCOLM BELL
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Malcolm Bell, Professor of Art History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to assume directorship of the American Academy in Rome, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Malcolm Bell, Professor of Art History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to serve as Professor in Charge of the School of Classical Studies of the American Academy in Rome.

DELETION OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD J. BONNIE
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Richard J. Bonnie, John S. Battle Professor of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1989, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 6, 1989, be and it is hereby deleted.

CHANGE IN LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF DR. ROBERT W. CANTRELL
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through March 31, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF MS. MERRILL ELAM
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Merrill Elam as Edmund Shureman Campbell Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Merrill Elam as Harry Shure Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991.

CHANGE IN LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. RONALD D. FISCHER
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Ronald D. Fischer, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to do research, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Ronald D. Fischer, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to do research.

CHANGE IN RE-ELECTION OF MS. BETTY M. JOHNSON
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991.

DELETION OF ELECTION OF DR. GREGORY J. KAUFFMAN
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Gregory J. Kauffman as Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby deleted.

CHANGE IN RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT E. MATSON
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Robert E. Matson as Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Robert E. Matson as Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT S. MICHEL
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Robert S. Michel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Robert S. Michel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN RE-ELECTION OF MS. MARY E. ROPKA
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Ms. Mary E. Popka as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Ms. Mary E. Ropka as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. SCOTT W. SAUTTER
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Scott W. Sautter from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 1, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Scott W. Sautter from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.

CHANGE IN ELECTION OF DR. ANN R. SHAMASKIN
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Ann R. Shamaskin as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Dr. Ann R. Shamaskin as Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

CHANGE IN CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. MOSES K. WOODE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Moses K. Woode from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Medical Education and Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective May 16, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 4, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:Mr. Moses K. Woode from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Medical Education and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective May 16, 1991.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Julie A. Johannes as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 9, 1991 through August 31, 1992.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Preston W. Mitchell as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 22, 1991 through June 30, 1994.Mr. Chris A. Onwuzurike as Associate Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Ramakrishna P. Polamraju as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Gary D. Slemp as Instructor in Speech, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Ms. Jennifer S. Wilson as Instructor in Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Clifford A. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.Mr. Roy W. Ely as Professor of Education, part time, Clinch Valley College, for the period October 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. James C. Willis as Associate Professor of Accounting, part time, Clinch Valley College, for the period October 1, 1991 through February 28, 1992.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Larry D. Lagow, Professor of French, Clinch Valley College, effective September 30, 1991, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992. Mr. Davidson has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.Mr. Ford W. Edwards, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992. Mr. Edwards has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.Mr. Roy W. Ely, Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, effective October 1, 1991. Mr. Ely has been a member of the faculty since August 16, 1974.Mr. Roy L. Wells, Associate Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1992. Mr. Wells has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1961.Mr. Leo S. Willis, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992. Mr. Willis has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Julie A. Johannes as Head Athletic Trainer, Clinch Valley College, for the period August 9, 1991 through August 31, 1992.Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Chair, Department of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, for the period November 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.Mr. Preston W. Mitchell as Head Women's Basketball Coach, Clinch Valley College, for the period September 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992.Mr. Leo S. Willis, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective June 1, 1992.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MARTIN J. PATSEL, JR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the McIntire School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the Martin J. Patsel, Jr., Research Professorship in Commerce. The Board is grateful to Mr. Martin J. Patsel, Jr., who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE F. PALMER WEBER RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN CIVIL LIBERTIES AND HUMAN RIGHTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the F. Palmer Weber Research Professorship in Civil Liberties and Human Rights. The Board is grateful to the Reed Foundation, Incorporated, which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RUTH C. HEEDE PROFESSORSHIP IN CARDIOLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to known as the Ruth C. Heede Professorship in Cardiology. The Board is grateful to Ms. Ruth C. Heede who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VINCENT SHEA PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established at the University of Virginia a Chair to be known as the Vincent Shea Professorship, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Alumni Board of Trustees which made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Arts and Sciences, this Chair to become effective at such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. William F. Souder, Jr., and the Arts and Sciences Alumni Council who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

RE-ELECTION OF MRS. FREDERIC W. SCOTT TO THE MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mrs. Frederic W. Scott be and she is hereby re-elected to the Miller Center Council until the Spring meeting of the Council in 1996.

APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period September 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved by the Audit Committee.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO EDWARD ELLIOTT ELSON
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Edward Elliott Elson has served the Commonwealth and the University of Virginia since 1984 as a distinguished member of the Board of Visitors; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson presided over the meetings of the Board which concluded the presidential search and led to the election of John T. Casteen, III, as the seventh President of the University of Virginia, thereby assuring the University of continuing excellence in administrative leadership; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson has served since 1990 with the highest distinction as the 37th Rector of the University; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson, with great generosity of time and spirit, has devoted energy and his own resources to making the Board more effective in the governance of the University. Under his leadership, the Board has become well versed in University affairs and deeply involved in the running of the institution. He has worked with great effect to foster a sense of community between the Board, on the one hand, and the faculty, students and administration of the University on the other; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson has worked diligently for effective communication between the Board of Visitors and the State Government; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson will be remembered perhaps above all for his intelligent compassion, for his vision of what the University of Virginia should be, and for his efforts to recognize all members of the University community and to involve them fully in the affairs of the University; andWHEREAS, Mr. Elson's term as Rector and as a member of the Board of Visitors will end on February twenty-ninth, 1992;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors recognizes and thanks Edward Elliott Elson for his distinguished leadership, for his friendship and for his guidance. The Board looks forward to a continuation of that friendship for many years to come.

APPRECIATION TO MR. JESSE B. WILSON, III, AND MR. THOMAS E. WORRELL, JR.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dr. Thomas Connally recognized and expressed, on behalf of the Board of Visitors, appreciation to Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Mr. Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., whose terms will end on February 29, 1992. Dr. Connally spoke of their unique and exemplary service and magnificent contribution to the Board and the University. He said the Board looks forward to a continuing friendship with Messrs. Wilson and Worrell for many years to come.

INTRODUCTION BY THE PRESIDENT OF POLISH VISITORS TO THE UNIVERSITY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the University is delighted to have three distinguished visitors from Poland who are here as part of an exchange that was arranged under the auspices of the American Council of Education. Two of the visitors were present for the full meeting of the Board of Visitors on Saturday, January 25, 1992.

The President introduced Professor Jacek Holowka, Associate Professor of Philosophy, and Special Advisor to the Rector at the University of Warsaw. He served as a visiting professor at Indiana University, and is the author of one book and numerous articles on moral philosophy.

The President then introduced Professor Marek Zirk-Sodowski, Dean of the Law Faculty at the University of Lodz. His specialty is the Philosophy of Law. He is the author of two books and some sixty-one articles. He has an extraordinary international record of lecturing at different institutions.

The President said that Andrzej Pelczar, Rector of the Jagiellonian University of Krakow, will visit Charlottesville later in the coming week.

The Board of Visitors welcomed the visitors with applause.

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH THE RANK OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the resolution establishing the rank of Professor Emeritus adopted June 7, 1957 and modified on March 29, 1974, January 26, 1980, January 22, 1988, be and it is hereby further modified to include establishment of the rank of Associate Professor Emeritus and to include associate professors who are retiring or who have retired as candidates;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, upon recommendation of the President, may elect to the rank of Associate Professor Emeritus, associate professor candidates who have evidenced outstanding teaching or public service performance.

AMENDMENT TO THE FACULTY LEAVE POLICIES
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that family leave policies for faculty on continuing contract be and they are hereby approved as follows:Maternity Leave of no more than six weeks will be granted for pregnancy and childbirth (including pre-delivery, delivery and postpartum). There is a presumption of disability, therefore no physician's statement will be required. The University shall continue full salary and fringe benefits during the period of the maternity leave. When required for medical reasons, anything beyond the six week period would be covered under the University's policy on temporary disability leave with pay for up to six months. In that event, the maternity leave is considered part of the total six month period for temporary disability.Parental Leave: In the event of childbirth, the mother or father may request leave without pay for up to a three week period. The leave must be requested within two months following childbirth. Allowable fringe benefits except retirement will be continued by the University.

APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOUNDATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby authorized to establish The Clinch Valley College Foundation.

APPROVAL OF BUILDING PROJECT DESIGN
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the pre-planning study for the construction of the Gilmer Field Recreation Facility be and it is hereby approved for further development.

APPROVAL OF THE REVISED CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE CAMPUS MASTER PLAN
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the draft dated January 24, 1992, for a revised Clinch Valley College Campus Master Plan be and it is hereby approved for final presentation, subject to State approval.

APPROVAL OF INTER-AGENCY LAND TRANSFER FOR BLANDY FARM BETWEEN THE VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that an inter-agency land transfer agreement between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Virginia Department of Transportation to improve access to property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia known as the Blandy Experimental Farm/Orland E. White Arboretum and located southeast of Winchester, Virginia, in Clarke County, be and it is hereby approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they are hereby authorized to execute said land transfer agreement.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO ENTER INTO A LEASE WITH THE DARDEN SCHOOL FOUNDATION FOR THE SITE OF THE NEW DARDEN SCHOOL AND THE ADDITION TO SPONSORS HALL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: ( Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., abstained from voting).WHEREAS, the Darden School Foundation wishes to construct a new academic facility for use by the Darden School and a new facility for expansion of Sponsors Hall (collectively, the "Projects");WHEREAS, the Darden School Foundation wishes to lease the sites for the Projects from the University in order to construct the Projects; andWHEREAS, the Darden School Foundation wishes to use tax-exempt bond financing requiring a mortgage on the Foundation's leasehold interest in the sites and the Projects; andWHEREAS, the Darden School Foundation wishes to donate the Projects to the University upon termination of this lease, and the University wishes to accept such donation;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the concurrence of the President and the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors, be and he is hereby authorized to enter into a ground lease between the University and the Darden School Foundation for a period not to exceed forty (40) years; provided that if the lease term exceeds the period of construction, then the University will lease back the academic facility for use by the Darden School and further provided that measures are included in the ground lease to protect the University's interests in the Projects from limitation by the leasehold mortgagee. The Sponsors Hall expansion will be operated and maintained by the Darden School Foundation under an amendment to the existing Sponsors Hall lease dated September 19, 1980 and amended September 29, 1984, the term of which shall be amended to expire fifty (50) years from the date of amendment;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is similarly authorized to seek requisite State approvals and to execute necessary documents on the University's behalf in order to implement the Projects.

WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 3,585,338.68

Indigent Care

17,279,705.15

\---------------

Total

$20,865,043.83

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meeting of October 21, 1991 and November 18, 1991, which include the write-offs for the months of August through October 1991 totaling $20,865,043.83 and consisting of the following: Bad Debt$ 3,585,338.68Indigent Care17,279,705.15---------------Total$20,865,043.83 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION, CONFERENCE, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE FACILITIES RATES FOR 1992-1993
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1991

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$91.00

$14.00

15.4%

$105.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

$273.00

$53.00

19.4%

$326.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$275.00

$43.00

15.6%

$318.00

Appellate Judges Program

$819.00

$126.00

15.4%

$945.00

Non-Resident Fee

$45.00

$5.00

11.1%

$50.00

COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Newcomb Hall

$9.00

$0.00

0.0%

$9.00

Student Health

$44.00

$1.00

2.3%

$45.00

Transportation

$9.00

$1.00

11.1%

$10.00

TOTAL

$62.00

$2.00

3.2%

$64.00

OTHER FEES

Late Payment Fee

$25.00

$0.00

0.0%

$25.00

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$30.00

$0.00

0.0%

$30.00

Actual 1991

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992

Lab Fee and Field Trip

$62.00

$3.00

4.8%

$65.00

Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:

Virginian

$275.00

$43.00

15.6%

$318.00

Non-Virginian

$550.00

$86.00

15.6%

$636.00

Post Doctoral Laboratory:

Fee per week

$95.00

$5.00

5.3%

$100.00

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each Person 17 years of age & older

$367.00

$23.00

6.3%

$390.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

$236.00

$14.00

5.9%

$250.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

$146.00

$9.00

6.2%

$155.00

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$85.00

$5.00

5.9%

$90.00

Cottages

Laing Singles

$85.00

$5.00

5.9%

$90.00

Laing Center

$120.00

$5.00

4.2%

$125.00

North

$117.00

$5.00

4.3%

$122.00

South

$117.00

$5.00

4.3%

$122.00

Northwest

$117.00

$5.00

4.3%

$122.00

West

$120.00

$5.00

4.2%

$125.00

Hentz-Mohr

$172.00

$8.00

4.7%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$215.00

$10.00

4.7%

$225.00

Clayton

$172.00

$8.00

4.7%

$180.00

Catesby

$144.00

$6.00

4.2%

$150.00

Gattinger

$144.00

$6.00

4.2%

$150.00

Michaux

$172.00

$8.00

4.7%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$215.00

$10.00

4.7%

$225.00

Burns

$160.00

$8.00

5.0%

$168.00

With Kitchen

$200.00

$13.00

6.5%

$213.00

Washington

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Banister

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

LeConte

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Hariot

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Schoew

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Mapnis

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Holbrook

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Mitchell

$153.00

$7.00

4.6%

$160.00

Rafinesque

$134.00

$6.00

4.5%

$140.00

Actual Summer 1991

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1992

FACILITY

SUMMER SESSION RATES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$40.00

$2.00

5.0%

$42.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$50.00

$2.00

4.0%

$52.00

Brandon Apartment Complex

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$50.00

$2.00

4.0%

$52.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$64.00

$4.00

6.3%

$68.00

Munford/Gwathmey

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$40.00

$2.00

5.0%

$42.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$50.00

$2.00

4.0%

$52.00

Sprigg Lane

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$44.00

$2.00

4.5%

$46.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$56.00

$2.00

3.6%

$58.00

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per student, per week, double occupancy

$44.00

$2.00

4.5%

$46.00

Per student, per week, single occupancy

$56.00

$2.00

3.6%

$58.00

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES\* \*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10

(A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$17.50

$0.50

2.9%

$18.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$24.00

$0.75

3.1%

$24.75

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$15.00

$0.50

3.3%

$15.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$20.50

$0.75

3.7%

$21.25

Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$19.00

$0.50

2.6%

$19.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$27.25

$1.25

4.6%

$28.50

Lawn

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$15.50

$0.50

3.2%

$16.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$21.50

$0.75

3.5%

$22.25

Faulkner

Per person, per night double occupancy

$18.00

$0.00

0.0%

$18.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$26.25

$0.75

2.9%

$27.00

Stadium Road (New College)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

N/A

N/A

N/A

$15.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

N/A

N/A

N/A

$23.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1991

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1992

(A) FULL SERVICE - (cont)

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$15.50

$0.00

0.0%

$15.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$22.25

$0.75

3.4%

$23.00

(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$14.50

$0.50

3.4%

$15.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$20.00

$0.50

2.5%

$20.50

Family rates, per week 2 bedroom apartment

$205.00

$5.00

2.4%

$210.00

Family rates, per week 3 bedroom apartment

$270.00

$10.00

3.7%

$280.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$13.00

$0.50

3.8%

$13.50

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$17.25

$0.50

2.9%

$17.75

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$13.25

$0.25

1.9%

$13.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$10.00

$0.00

0.0%

$10.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$11.25

$0.25

2.2%

$11.50

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$13.00

$0.00

0.0%

$13.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$15.50

$0.50

3.2%

$16.00

Stadium Road (New College)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

N/A

N/A

N/A

$13.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

N/A

N/A

N/A

$16.00

Faulkner

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$14.50

$0.50

3.4%

$15.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$20.00

$0.50

2.5%

$20.50

Sprigg Lane

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$12.50

$0.50

4.0%

$13.00

Per person, per night, single occupancy

$15.50

$0.50

3.2%

$16.00

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE

Lambeth Field

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

Monroe Hill Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

FACILITY

Actual Summer 1991

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate Summer 1992

(C) NO LINEN SERVICE (cont.)

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$9.50

$0.00

0.0%

$9.50

McCormick Road Houses

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$8.25

$0.00

0.0%

$8.25

Munford/Gwathmey

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$9.00

$0.00

0.0%

$9.00

Brandon Apartment Complex

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

Sprigg Lane

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

$11.00

$0.00

0.0%

$11.00

Stadium Road (New College)

Per person, per night, double occupancy

N/A

N/A

N/A

$11.00

OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

GRADUATE SUITES

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

Per suite, per week

$96.00

$4.00

4.2%

$100.00

GRADUATION GUESTS

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Per person, per night

$14.00

$2.00

14.3%

$16.00

BREAKFAST

BRUNCH

LUNCH

DINNER

Actual 1991-92 Rate

Adult Conferences

Conference rate

$4.30

$4.60

$5.45

$6.55

Guest rate

$4.70

$5.05

$5.75

$6.85

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$3.15

$3.75

$4.25

$5.10

Guest rate

$3.50

$4.10

$4.65

$5.45

Amount of Increase

Adult Conferences

Conference rate

$0.25

$0.25

$0.30

$0.35

Guest rate

$0.25

$0.25

$0.30

$0.35

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$0.10

$0.10

$0.15

$0.15

Guest rate

$0.10

$0.10

$0.15

$0.15

Percent Increase

Adult Conference

Conference rate

5.8%

5.4%

5.5%

5.3%

Guest rate

5.3%

5.0%

5.2%

5.1%

Camps & Children

Conference rate

3.2%

2.7%

3.5%

2.9%

Guest rate

2.9%

2.4%

3.2%

2.8%

Proposed 1992-93 Rate

Adult Conference

Conference rate

$4.55

$4.85

$5.75

$6.90

Guest rate

$4.95

$5.30

$6.05

$7.20

Camps & Children

Conference rate

$3.25

$3.85

$4.40

$5.25

Guest rate

$3.60

$4.20

$4.80

$5.60

Actual 1991-92

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate 1992-93

Birdwood Pavilion

Single, per night

$50.00

$0.00

0.0%

$50.00

Double, per night

$65.00

$0.00

0.0%

$65.00

International Center - Public Rooms

Use of Rooms & Functions

Rooms

Main rooms for social occasions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Grounds

$15.00

$2.00

13.3%

$17.00

Main rooms for social occasions with use of kitchen

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen Grounds

$20.00

$0.00

0.0%

$20.00

Use of grounds (only)

$20.00

$0.00

0.0%

$20.00

Wedding receptions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$200.00

$0.00

0.0%

$200.00

Rehearsal dinners and/or large parties over 80 persons

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$100.00

$0.00

0.0%

$100.00

Rain site for wedding receptions

Main rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen

$35.00

$0.00

0.0%

$35.00

Security deposit

$35.00

$0.00

0.0%

$35.00

Actual 1991-92

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed Rate 1992-93

International Center - Guest Rooms

Single

per night

$17.10

$0.90

5.3%

$18.00

per week

$87.70

$4.30

4.9%

$92.00

per month

$272.85

$12.15

4.5%

$285.00

Couple

per night

$24.60

$1.30

5.3%

$25.90

per week

$123.05

$5.95

4.8%

$129.00

per month

$385.20

$12.30

3.2%

$397.50

Children under 16 (cot)

per night

$5.00

$0.00

0.0%

$15.00

per week

$15.00

$0.00

0.0%

$15.00

per month

$50.00

$0.00

0.0%

$50.00

Children in crib

per night

$2.00

$0.00

0.0%

$2.00

per week

$10.00

$0.00

0.0%

$10.00

per month

$25.00

$0.00

0.0%

$25.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1992: Actual 1991Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$91.00$14.0015.4%$105.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)$273.00$53.0019.4%$326.00Thesis/Dissertation Research$275.00$43.0015.6%$318.00Appellate Judges Program$819.00$126.0015.4%$945.00Non-Resident Fee$45.00$5.0011.1%$50.00COMPREHENSIVE FEENewcomb Hall$9.00$0.000.0%$9.00Student Health$44.00$1.002.3%$45.00Transportation$9.00$1.0011.1%$10.00TOTAL$62.00$2.003.2%$64.00OTHER FEESLate Payment Fee$25.00$0.000.0%$25.00Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee$30.00$0.000.0%$30.00

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station

Actual 1991Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992Lab Fee and Field Trip$62.00$3.004.8%$65.00Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term:Virginian$275.00$43.0015.6%$318.00Non-Virginian$550.00$86.0015.6%$636.00Post Doctoral Laboratory:Fee per week$95.00$5.005.3%$100.00MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each Person 17 years of age & older$367.00$23.006.3%$390.00Each Person 10-16 years of age$236.00$14.005.9%$250.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger$146.00$9.006.2%$155.00MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$85.00$5.005.9%$90.00CottagesLaing Singles$85.00$5.005.9%$90.00Laing Center$120.00$5.004.2%$125.00North$117.00$5.004.3%$122.00South$117.00$5.004.3%$122.00Northwest$117.00$5.004.3%$122.00West$120.00$5.004.2%$125.00Hentz-Mohr$172.00$8.004.7%$180.00With Kitchen$215.00$10.004.7%$225.00Clayton$172.00$8.004.7%$180.00Catesby$144.00$6.004.2%$150.00Gattinger$144.00$6.004.2%$150.00Michaux$172.00$8.004.7%$180.00With Kitchen$215.00$10.004.7%$225.00Burns$160.00$8.005.0%$168.00With Kitchen$200.00$13.006.5%$213.00Washington$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Banister$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00LeConte$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Hariot$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Schoew$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Mapnis$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Holbrook$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Mitchell$153.00$7.004.6%$160.00Rafinesque$134.00$6.004.5%$140.00

AND BE IT RESOLVED that the following rental rates for housing facilities for summer, 1992, be and they are hereby approved:

Actual Summer 1991Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1992FACILITYSUMMER SESSION RATESAlderman/Observatory HousesPer student, per week, double occupancy$40.00$2.005.0%$42.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$50.00$2.004.0%$52.00Brandon Apartment ComplexPer student, per week, double occupancy$50.00$2.004.0%$52.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$64.00$4.006.3%$68.00Munford/GwathmeyPer student, per week, double occupancy$40.00$2.005.0%$42.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$50.00$2.004.0%$52.00Sprigg LanePer student, per week, double occupancy$44.00$2.004.5%$46.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$56.00$2.003.6%$58.00Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per student, per week, double occupancy$44.00$2.004.5%$46.00Per student, per week, single occupancy$56.00$2.003.6%$58.00SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES\* \*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10 (A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid serviceLambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$17.50$0.502.9%$18.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$24.00$0.753.1%$24.75Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$15.00$0.503.3%$15.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$20.50$0.753.7%$21.25Copeley Hill, Phase III & IVPer person, per night, double occupancy$19.00$0.502.6%$19.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$27.25$1.254.6%$28.50LawnPer person, per night, double occupancy$15.50$0.503.2%$16.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$21.50$0.753.5%$22.25FaulknerPer person, per night double occupancy$18.00$0.000.0%$18.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$26.25$0.752.9%$27.00Stadium Road (New College)Per person, per night, double occupancyN/AN/AN/A$15.50Per person, per night, single occupancyN/AN/AN/A$23.00

Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10

FACILITYActual Summer 1991Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1992(A) FULL SERVICE - (cont)Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$15.50$0.000.0%$15.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$22.25$0.753.4%$23.00(B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.Lambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$14.50$0.503.4%$15.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$20.00$0.502.5%$20.50Family rates, per week 2 bedroom apartment$205.00$5.002.4%$210.00Family rates, per week 3 bedroom apartment$270.00$10.003.7%$280.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$13.00$0.503.8%$13.50Per person, per night, single occupancy$17.25$0.502.9%$17.75Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$13.25$0.251.9%$13.50McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$10.00$0.000.0%$10.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$11.25$0.252.2%$11.50Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$13.00$0.000.0%$13.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$15.50$0.503.2%$16.00Stadium Road (New College)Per person, per night, double occupancyN/AN/AN/A$13.00Per person, per night, single occupancyN/AN/AN/A$16.00FaulknerPer person, per night, double occupancy$14.50$0.503.4%$15.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$20.00$0.502.5%$20.50Sprigg LanePer person, per night, double occupancy$12.50$0.504.0%$13.00Per person, per night, single occupancy$15.50$0.503.2%$16.00(C) NO LINEN SERVICELambeth FieldPer person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00Monroe Hill HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00

FACILITYActual Summer 1991Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate Summer 1992(C) NO LINEN SERVICE (cont.)Alderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$9.50$0.000.0%$9.50McCormick Road HousesPer person, per night, double occupancy$8.25$0.000.0%$8.25Munford/GwathmeyPer person, per night, double occupancy$9.00$0.000.0%$9.00Brandon Apartment ComplexPer person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00Sprigg LanePer person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Per person, per night, double occupancy$11.00$0.000.0%$11.00Stadium Road (New College)Per person, per night, double occupancyN/AN/AN/A$11.00

OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.GRADUATE SUITESGraduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road HousesPer suite, per week$96.00$4.004.2%$100.00GRADUATION GUESTSAlderman/Observatory HousesPer person, per night$14.00$2.0014.3%$16.00

AND BE IT RESOLVED that rate increases for summer conference meals be and they are hereby approved as shown below effective July 1, 1992:

BREAKFASTBRUNCHLUNCHDINNERActual 1991-92 RateAdult ConferencesConference rate$4.30$4.60$5.45$6.55Guest rate$4.70$5.05$5.75$6.85Camps & ChildrenConference rate$3.15$3.75$4.25$5.10Guest rate$3.50$4.10$4.65$5.45Amount of IncreaseAdult ConferencesConference rate$0.25$0.25$0.30$0.35Guest rate$0.25$0.25$0.30$0.35Camps & ChildrenConference rate$0.10$0.10$0.15$0.15Guest rate$0.10$0.10$0.15$0.15Percent IncreaseAdult ConferenceConference rate5.8%5.4%5.5%5.3%Guest rate5.3%5.0%5.2%5.1%Camps & ChildrenConference rate3.2%2.7%3.5%2.9%Guest rate2.9%2.4%3.2%2.8%Proposed 1992-93 RateAdult ConferenceConference rate$4.55$4.85$5.75$6.90Guest rate$4.95$5.30$6.05$7.20Camps & ChildrenConference rate$3.25$3.85$4.40$5.25Guest rate$3.60$4.20$4.80$5.60

AND BE IT RESOLVED that the Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation and the International Center room rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1992:

Actual 1991-92Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate 1992-93Birdwood PavilionSingle, per night$50.00$0.000.0%$50.00Double, per night$65.00$0.000.0%$65.00International Center - Public RoomsUse of Rooms & FunctionsRoomsMain rooms for social occasionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Grounds$15.00$2.0013.3%$17.00Main rooms for social occasions with use of kitchenMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen Grounds$20.00$0.000.0%$20.00Use of grounds (only)$20.00$0.000.0%$20.00Wedding receptionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$200.00$0.000.0%$200.00Rehearsal dinners and/or large parties over 80 personsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$100.00$0.000.0%$100.00Rain site for wedding receptionsMain rooms Living room Dining room Porch/pantry Use of kitchen$35.00$0.000.0%$35.00Security deposit$35.00$0.000.0%$35.00

Actual 1991-92Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed Rate 1992-93International Center - Guest RoomsSingleper night$17.10$0.905.3%$18.00per week$87.70$4.304.9%$92.00per month$272.85$12.154.5%$285.00Coupleper night$24.60$1.305.3%$25.90per week$123.05$5.954.8%$129.00per month$385.20$12.303.2%$397.50Children under 16 (cot)per night$5.00$0.000.0%$15.00per week$15.00$0.000.0%$15.00per month$50.00$0.000.0%$50.00Children in cribper night$2.00$0.000.0%$2.00per week$10.00$0.000.0%$10.00per month$25.00$0.000.0%$25.00

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1992-1993 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992-93 Per Student Per Session

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1,568

$62

3.95%

$1,630

Monroe Hill

Double Room

$1,820

$156

8.57%

$1,976

Triple Room

$1,456

$58

3.98%

$1,514

McCormick Road

Double Room

$1,488

$60

4.03%

$1,548

Small Double Room

$1,298

$96

7.40%

$1,394

Per Day Rate

$8

$0

0.00%

$8

Lawn

Small Single

$1,698

$162

9.54%

$1,860

Regular Single

$1,788

$72

4.03%

$1,860

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1,648

$160

9.71%

$1,808

Range

Regular Single

$1,732

$128

7.39%

$1,860

Crackerbox

Single Room

$1,732

$128

7.39%

$1,860

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$1,568

$62

3.95%

$1,630

Single Room

$1,732

$128

7.39%

$1,860

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$1,782

$78

4.38%

$1,860

Single Room

$1,938

$78

4.02%

$2,016

Single Room (Private Bath)

$2,006

$110

5.48%

$2,116

Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)

Double Room

$1,788

$72

4.03%

$1,860

Single Room

$1,938

$78

4.02%

$2,016

TWELVE MONTH RATE:

Double Room

$2,680

$108

4.03%

$2,788

Single Room

$2,832

114

4.03%

$2,946

Stadium Road (New College)

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$2,094

Single Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$2,248

(Rate includes local telephone and data line service charges)

Facility

Actual 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992-93 Per Student Per Session

Barringer House

Triple Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$1,800

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$1,900

Single Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$2,100

Max Kade House

Single Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$1,800

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$1,854

$74

3.99%

$1,928

Three Bedroom

$1,778

$72

4.05%

$1,850

Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)

Double

$1,922

$78

4.06%

$2,000

Single

$2,012

$80

3.98%

$2,092

Actual 1991-92 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1992-93 Per Student Per Session

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$390

$16

4.10%

$406

Two Bedroom

$434

$16

3.69%

$450

Three Bedroom

$466

$20

4.29%

$486

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$376

$16

4.26%

$392

Two Bedroom

$410

$16

3.90%

$426

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1992-1993: FacilityActual 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992-93 Per Student Per SessionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$1,568$623.95%$1,630Monroe HillDouble Room$1,820$1568.57%$1,976Triple Room$1,456$583.98%$1,514McCormick RoadDouble Room$1,488$604.03%$1,548Small Double Room$1,298$967.40%$1,394Per Day Rate$8$00.00%$8LawnSmall Single$1,698$1629.54%$1,860Regular Single$1,788$724.03%$1,860Small Single (no fireplace)$1,648$1609.71%$1,808RangeRegular Single$1,732$1287.39%$1,860CrackerboxSingle Room$1,732$1287.39%$1,860Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$1,568$623.95%$1,630Single Room$1,732$1287.39%$1,860Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)Double Room$1,782$784.38%$1,860Single Room$1,938$784.02%$2,016Single Room (Private Bath)$2,006$1105.48%$2,116Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)Double Room$1,788$724.03%$1,860Single Room$1,938$784.02%$2,016TWELVE MONTH RATE:Double Room$2,680$1084.03%$2,788Single Room$2,8321144.03%$2,946Stadium Road (New College)Double RoomN/AN/AN/A$2,094Single RoomN/AN/AN/A$2,248(Rate includes local telephone and data line service charges) FacilityActual 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992-93 Per Student Per SessionBarringer HouseTriple RoomN/AN/AN/A$1,800Double RoomN/AN/AN/A$1,900Single RoomN/AN/AN/A$2,100Max Kade HouseSingle RoomN/AN/AN/A$1,800APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$1,854$743.99%$1,928Three Bedroom$1,778$724.05%$1,850Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)Double$1,922$784.06%$2,000Single$2,012$803.98%$2,092 Actual 1991-92 Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1992-93 Per Student Per SessionAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$390$164.10%$406Two Bedroom$434$163.69%$450Three Bedroom$466$204.29%$486University GardensOne Bedroom$376$164.26%$392Two Bedroom$410$163.90%$426

These rates include all utility costs, TV cable in apartments and post office box rental where applicable

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1992-1993 FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1991-92

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1992-93

Dormitory Rent

Dorms

$1,500

$100

6.7%

$1,600

Apt. House

$1,700

$150

8.8%

$1,850

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the dormitory room charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1992: Actual 1991-92Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1992-93Dormitory RentDorms$1,500$1006.7%$1,600Apt. House$1,700$1508.8%$1,850

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PRESIDENT TO SIGN A RESOLUTION REGARDING THE ROUTE 29 CORRIDOR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the President of the University sign, on behalf of the University, a resolution addressed to the Virginia Commonwealth Transportation Board and to the Virginia Department of Transportation concerning certain improvements proposed for U.S. Route 29 North of Charlottesville. The resolution is to be a joint resolution, signed also by the Chairman of the Albemarle County Board of Supervisors and the Mayor of the City of Charlottesville. (See Attachment A)

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

APPROVAL OF THE 1992 ANNUAL AUDIT SCHEDULE
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1992 Annual Audit Schedule, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 4:30 p.m.

AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT A RESOLUTION
-----------------------

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: January 25, 1992

WHEREAS, the Audit Committee of the Board has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Audit Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Audit Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Audit Committee.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

absent

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on January 25, 1992, at 10:15 a.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieabsentFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yesAdam S. Arthuryes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: January 25, 1992

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

absent

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Abstained from voting on Darden School Foundation Lease

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Resolution

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

absent

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

Adam S. Arthur

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on January 25, 1992, at 3:00 p.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE (yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.absentRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesEdward E. ElsonyesWaller H. HorsleyyesJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesAbstained from voting on Darden School Foundation LeaseMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesResolutionFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.absentS. Buford ScottyesJesse B. Wilson, IIIyesThomas E. Worrell, Jr.yesAdam S. Arthuryes
