---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1992'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA July 30-31, 1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:05 p.m at Carr's Hill on Thursday, July 30, 1992, with Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, presiding. J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, and Albert H. Small were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes.

After calling the meeting to order, the Rector entertained a motion to go into Executive Session. The Board went into Executive Session at 8:10 p.m. and recessed at 10:15 p.m.

The following motion was adopted: That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the following purposes: to evaluate the President's performance; to discuss salaries of certain personnel; to discuss specific fundraising activities and strategies in preparation for the Capital Campaign; and to consult with General Counsel regarding the legal authority and fiduciary responsibility of the Board of Visitors relative to its oversight of University-related Foundations, and concerning certain pending litigation; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1)(7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, at 8:10 a.m. in the Terrace Room of the Boar's Head Inn, in Albemarle County, on July 31. The Executive Session was adjourned at 9:50 a.m. and the Board recessed.

The Rector called the meeting to order, in Open Session, at 10:10 a.m.

NAME

VOTE(yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

absent

Mortimer M. Caplin

absent

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Waller H. Horsley

absent

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

absent

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

J. Scott Ballenger

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on July 30-31, 1992 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments". NAMEVOTE(yes or no)COMMENTSW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.absentMortimer M. CaplinabsentN. Thomas ConnallyyesHovey S. DabneyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWaller H. HorsleyabsentJ. Thomas HulveyyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr.yesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieabsentFreddie W. Nicholas, Sr.yesS. Buford ScottyesAlbert H. SmallyesJ. Scott Ballengeryes

APPROVAL OF THE 1993 BOARD MEETING DATES
----------------------------------------

The Board discussed a proposed schedule of meetings for 1993. It was decided to hold meetings, where possible, on Friday and Saturday rather than Thursday and Friday and, if possible, to hold one 1993 meeting at Clinch Valley College and another in New York. The Board agreed to meetings on February 5 and 6, April 9 and 10, June 4 and 5 and November 12 and 13. The April meeting will be in Wise County and the November meeting in New York. Mr. Dalhouse suggested that it would be useful to add a day to the New York meeting as an adjunct to the Capital Campaign; the Board agreed to this so the November meeting will be November 11 through 13. A decision as to whether or not to hold a retreat in the summer of 1993 was deferred.

NAMING OF BUILDINGS
-------------------

The President recommended that the Dining Hall of the New College be named B.F.D. Runk Hall, that the Principal's Residence be called the Joseph L. Vaughan Residence and that the Residence Halls be named Dumas Malone Hall, Gordon Thomas Whyburn Hall, William Weedon Hall, Betty Norman Norris Hall and Nathan Edward Johnson Hall. The appropriate resolutions were moved and adopted.

The following resolutions were adopted: RESOLVED that one of the residence halls of The New College be and it is hereby named the Dumas Malone Hall.RESOLVED that one of the residence halls of The New College be and it is hereby named the Gordon Thomas Whyburn Hall.RESOLVED that one of the residence halls of The New College be and it is hereby named the William Weedon Hall.RESOLVED that one of the residence halls of The New College be and it is hereby named the Betty Norman Norris Hall.RESOLVED that one of the residence halls of The New College be and it is hereby named the Nathan Edward Johnson Hall.RESOLVED that the Dining Hall of The New College be and it is hereby named the B.F.D. Runk Dining Hall.RESOLVED that the Principal's Residence of The New College be and it is hereby named the Joseph L. Vaughan Residence.

REPORT ON REVISED POLICY ON UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
----------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked Mr. Sandridge, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to lead a discussion of a proposed revision in the policy on University-related foundations. Using transparencies and material previously distributed to the Board, Mr. Sandridge described the proposed policy. The Board will not take action on the policy until its October, 1992 meeting.

1992-1993 SALARY FOR INTERIM CHANCELLOR L. JAY LEMONS
-----------------------------------------------------

Mr. Dalhouse moved a resolution setting a salary for Mr. L. Jay Lemons as Interim Chancellor of Clinch Valley College.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Rector of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to submit a 1992-1993 salary recommendation for Mr. L. Jay Lemons, Interim Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, to the Governor for approval.

1992-1993 SALARIES FOR PRESIDENT JOHN T. CASTEEN. III, AND CHANCELLOR J. A. KNIGHT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dr. Connally reported that the Board, in Executive Session on July 30, had evaluated the performance of the President over the past year. During a time of severe financial cutbacks, he said the morale of the University is high because of the President's leadership. In short, the Board ranked his performance as

Dr. Connally then moved a resolution setting the President's salary for the next year, a 2% increase in that part supported by State funds.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Rector of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to submit 1992-1993 salary recommendations for President John T. Casteen, III, President of the University of Virginia, and Mr. J. A. Knight, Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, to the Governor for approval.BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia attest to their positive evaluation of the performances of President John T. Casteen, III, and Chancellor J. A. Knight.

Mr. Leon said he hoped it would be possible to combine the April, 1993 Board meeting with Founder's Day.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:20 a.m.

AGG: jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: July 30-31, 1992CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

13

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

4

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

4

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; andWHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTEAYES:13NAYS:0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\] ABSENT DURING VOTE:4ABSENT DURING MEETING:4
