---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1994'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 10-11, 1994
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 1:25 p.m., on Friday, June 10, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Ms. Chris A. Howe, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:00 a.m., on Saturday, June 11, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Chris A. Howe, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Robert T. Canevari, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of April 8-9, 1994, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Office of Development, the Adolescent Teen Lounge, the Contracting of Independent Telephone Services, Communication Services - Physical Security, School of Nursing Grant Reporting, Health Sciences Center Risk Management Office, Renal Services, the Treasurer's Office, Games Settlements, and the University Library, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1995. The Committee assignments are as follows: HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEN. Thomas Connally, ChairMortimer M. CaplinCharles M. Caravati, Jr.Evans B. JesseeC. Wilson McNeely, IIIElizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. Small FINANCE COMMITTEERobert G. Butcher, Jr., ChairW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Mortimer M. CaplinWarner N. DalhouseArnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, III BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEElizabeth D. Morie, ChairDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandEvans B. JesseeAllison S. LinneyAlbert H. Small STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., ChairFranklin K. BirckheadRobert G. Butcher, Jr.Daniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandPatricia M. KlugeAllison S. Linney EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, ChairCharles M. Caravati, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyDaniel A. HofflerElsie Goodwyn HollandPatricia M. KlugeAllison S. Linney AUDIT COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadArnold H. LeonElizabeth D. Morie EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, ChairFranklin K. BirckheadW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.Warner N. DalhousePatricia M. Kluge

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of The Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the following members were elected to the Executive Committee of the Board to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1995:

Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, Chair

Mr. Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Dr. N. Thomas Connally

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, III

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 11:00 a.m., on Saturday, June 11, 1994, recessed, and resumed once more at 12:05 p.m., on Saturday, June 11, 1994.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter J. Armour as Visiting Professor of Italian, for one semester, effective January 16, 1995.Mr. Anthony H. Catanach, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Roger B. Cohen as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Debra W. Cole as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Mr. Derrick Lamont Darby as Lecturer in Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Gerri L. Frantz as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective March 1, 1994.Mr. Steven T. Garren as Acting Assistant Professor of Statistics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Leisa T. Gonnella as Lecturer in Anesthesiology, General Faculty, for one year, effective March 28, 1994.Mr. Graham Grove as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period June 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Dr. George T. Hashisaki as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective June 1, 1994.Mr. Mark R. Heller as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Ms. Diane M. Hoffman as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz as Associate Professor of Orthopaedics, for three years, effective May 1, 1994.Ms. Robin D. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Gwenith A. Jones as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective May 1, 1994.Mr. Brent Kreider as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Harold L. Langsam as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Michael B. Lawrence as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period April 18, 1994 through May 31, 1997.Dr. Klaus F. Ley as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period April 13, 1994 through January 31, 1996.Ms. Martha L. Maznevski as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Lin Mei as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective May 1, 1994.Dr. Hamilton Moses, III as Professor of Neurosurgery, effective March 1, 1994.Ms. Nancy H. Parsons as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective April 4, 1994.Mr. Robert D. Pates as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1994 through October 31, 1994.Mr. Robert H. Perkins as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective March 21, 1994.Mr. Jeffrey E. Prisbrey as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Bradly W. Reed as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Michael L. Satlow as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. James H. Scott, III as Lecturer in Medical Education, General Faculty, for the period April 16, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Ms. Pamela Sprouse-Allen as Lecturer in Medical Education, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 14, 1994.Mr. James M. Turner as Whyburn Instructor in Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Gretchen Umholtz as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Dorothy Vasquez-Levy as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Milton Vickerman as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Paul L. Walker as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Cynthia Wall as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Alicyn Warren as Assistant Professor of Music, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Ian Webb as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Mr. Cedric L. Williams as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Kei-Mu Yi as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1994.

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Dr. Thomas M. Daniel as George R. Minor Professor of General Thoracic Surgery, effective February 1, 1994.(b) Re-Elections of ChairholdersMr. David D. Newsom as Hugh S. and Winifred B. Cumming Memorial Professor of International Affairs, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1994.(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)Mr. Henry J. Abraham, James Hart Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, for educational purposes.Ms. Cora Diamond, William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Philosophy, without pay, for the period January 16, 1995 through May 31, 1995, to do research.Ms. Marie-Helene Huet, William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of French, without pay, for the period July 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, for personal reasons.Mr. Jacob C. Levenson, Edgar Allen Poe Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.(d) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Robert L. Grinaker, Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, effective August 31, 1994. Mr. Grinaker has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1986.Dr. Warren G. Stamp, Lillian T. Pratt Professor of Orthopaedics, effective June 30, 1994. Dr. Stamp has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1968.(e) Appointments of Chairholder(s)

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett as Acting Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. J. Thomas Parsons as Chair, Department of Microbiology, for five years, effective April 1, 1994.

Re-elections
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. James M. Campbell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sarah M. Corse as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1998.Mr. Richard M. Costanzo as Research Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for the period April 1, 1994 through September 30, 1994.Mr. Martin R. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Donal B. Day as Research Associate Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Roger S. Fager as Senior Research Fellow, for one year, effective June 1, 1994.Mr. Murray G. Finley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Joanne M. Herbert as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Janet R. Horne as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Tetsundo Iwakuni as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Ervin L. Jordan, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Cornelia A. Kelley as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Geoffrey P. Lewis as Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard A. Lindgren as Research Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Burton J. Litman as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth A. Margutti as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Fred E. Maus as Assistant Professor of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Janice L. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1994.Mr. Franklin G. Miller as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, part-time, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Ms. Jennie L. Moody as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, part-time, for one year, effective March 1, 1994.Mr. Kaoru Murata as Visiting Scholar in English, for one year, effective March 27, 1994.Mr. John F. O'Bryant as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Michael A. Okin as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for one year, effective April 1, 1994.Mr. Kee Ok Park as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Angelika S. Powell as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. James W. Ramsey, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. William J. Randolph as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective April 1, 1994.Mr. Carl Roskott as Associate Professor of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Leonard J. Schoppa as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert M. Sellers as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Wayne M. Sparks as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Christie D. Stephenson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Kanubhai D. Suthar as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Linda K. Swank as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. J. Gregory Wall as Visiting Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for one year, effective March 1, 1994.Ms. Lisa A. Waterbury as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1994 through April 30, 1995.Ms. Linda S. White as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Ms. Barbara A. Boyce from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor Education, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Donna R. Buck from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Warren T. Byrd from Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture to Professor of Landscape Architecture, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Stephen B. Cushman from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert E. Davis from Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Russell H. Davis from Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty to Associate Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Larry E. Decker from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Daniel T. Devereux from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Carlos M.N. Eire from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert E. Emery from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Keith N. Eshleman from Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. M. G. Finn from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Roseanne M. Ford from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble, Jr. from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Andrew Grimshaw from Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Hossein Haj-Hariri from Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. W. Dean Harman from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David F. Hult from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Douglas P. Hurd from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Lynn A. Isabella from Associate Professor of Business Administration (with term) to Associate Professor of Business Administration (without term), effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Barry W. Johnson from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. J. Colleen Kelly from Assistant Professor of Drama to Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Judith A. Kinnard from Associate Professor of Architecture (with term) to Associate Professor of Architecture (without term), effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Mable B. Kinzie from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. George Klosko from Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Courtland C. Lee from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Arthur W. Lichtenberger from Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Robert W. Lourie from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Wu-Seng Lung from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Megan M. Marlatt from Assistant Professor of Art to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Felicia C. Marston from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. James C. McDaniel from Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Mary B. McKinley from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth A. Meyer from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Kathryn N. Morgan from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Robert U. Mulder from Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, General Faculty to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Steven L. Nock from Associate Professor of Sociology to Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Blaine E. Norum from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Gail V. Oltmanns from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Mark Parry from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Shyamal Das Peddada from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Statistics, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Carol M. Pfeiffer from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. William J. Price-Wilkin from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. R. Jahan Ramazani from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Juanita Reigle from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. James D. Savage from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. William T. Scherer from Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering to Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Herman M. Schwartz from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard H. Steeves from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Renate L. Voris from Associate Professor of German to Professor of German, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Diane P. Walker from Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.

Leaves of Absence
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Elizabeth M. Bruns, Research Associate Professor of Pathology, without pay, for the period April 6, 1994 through April 19, 1994, for personal reasons.Mr. James N. Demas, Professor of Chemistry, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Dr. David S. Fedson, Professor of Internal Medicine, with partial pay, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994, for educational purposes.Dr. Beth Fisher, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period May 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994, for personal reasons.Mr. George B. Hess, Professor of Physics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Nicholas J. Kuhn, Professor of Mathematics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Nelson N. Lichtenstein, Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1995, to do research.Mr. R. B. Martin, Professor of Chemistry, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through December 31, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Ms. Katharine E. Maus, Associate Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1995, for educational purposes.Mr. Kevin McCrimmon, Professor of Mathematics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1995, for educational purposes.Mr. Charles W. McCurdy, Associate Professor of History and Law, without pay, for the period January 16, 1995 through May 31, 1995, for educational purposes.Mr. Loren D. Pitt, Professor of Mathematics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to do research as part of a sesquicentennial award.Mr. Michael H. Prosser, Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1996, to accept the William A. Kern Professorship of Communication at the Rochester Institute of Technology.Mr. Bradly W. Reed, Acting Assistant Professor of History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through January 15, 1995, to do research.Dr. James K. Roche, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1994 through April 30, 1995, for educational purposes.Ms. Annette D. Selinger, Instructor in Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period February 15, 1994 through March 25, 1994, for adoption leave.Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.Ms. Elaine B. Steen, Lecturer, General Faculty, with pay, for the period March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994, for modified service leave.Ms. Alicyn Warren, Assistant Professor of Music, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995, to complete second year of Mellon Fellowship.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Mr. Wayne M. Alves from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for three years, effective March 1, 1994.Ms. Natalie L. Baturka from Assistant Professor of Medical Education to Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for one year, effective April 1, 1994.Dr. J. Howard Clark from Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Clinical Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Dale C. Copeland from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1997.Dr. Larry G. Dennis from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective March 1, 1994.Mr. Roland H. Krauss from Research Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Mechanical, Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering, for the period May 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Ms. Elisabeth Ladenson from Acting Assistant Professor of French to Assistant Professor of French, for the period February 28, 1994 through May 31, 1996.Dr. Maurice H. Lipper from Associate Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Dr. Howard A. Montgomery from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective May 1, 1994.Ms. Debra A. Morris from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Rowan K. Neerhut from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for the period May 1, 1994 through November 30, 1994.Mr. Brian P. Owensby from Instructor in History to Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Edward M. Spencer from Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.Dr. David R. Uncles from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. David J. Ballard, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Elizabeth M. Bebin, Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective June 15, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. R. Anton Braun, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective February 22, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Michela Caruso, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Amod V. Dandawate, Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, effective May 1, 1994, for personal reasons.Ms. Janet B. Davis, Instructor in Rhetoric and Communication Studies, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Marc D. Feldman, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Don Fullerton, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Valerie H. Hani, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Susan G. Huffman, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Demetrios Kazakos, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Mathematics, effective June 1, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Drake C. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry, effective April 30, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Neal R. Nygard, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1994, for personal reasons.Dr. Robert D. Powers, Associate Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Ann M. Ryan, Instructor in Business Administration, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Annette D. Selinger, Instructor in Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, effective March 25, 1994, for personal reasons.Dr. Christopher Y. Thomas, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective April 1, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Julian M. Weiss, Associate Professor of Spanish, effective August 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Mark C. Wolff, Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, effective March 13, 1994, to accept another position.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Eppink has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1994. Mr. Glosser has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Goldstein has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.Dr. Guy Morley Harbert, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1994. Dr. Harbert has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1963.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. Heath has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1994. Mr. Iachetta has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1954.Mr. Robert M. MacLeod, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1994. Mr. MacLeod has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1960.Mr. Donald L. McGrady, Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. McGrady has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor of Religious Studies, effective January 16, 1995. Mr. Rao has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1971.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Hamilton Moses, III as Executive Director, Virginia Neurological Institute, for one year, effective March 1, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth Polak as Assistant Dean, Corporate and Foundation Relations and Career Services, School of Commerce, for the period May 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. James S. Kennan as Associate Vice President for Health Affairs, for the period May 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996.Ms. Renate L. Voris as Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. G. Frederick Wooten as Chair, Department of Neurology, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1994.Dr. Guy Morley Harbert, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1994.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, effective January 15, 1995.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1994.Mr. Robert M. MacLeod, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1994.Mr. Donald L. McGrady, Professor of Spanish, Italian and Portuguese, effective January 15, 1995.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor of Religious Studies, effective January 16, 1995.Dr. Warren G. Stamp, Lillian T. Pratt Professor of Orthopaedics, effective June 30, 1994.

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1994.Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. RICHARD T. EPPINK
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with partial pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 13, 1993, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Richard T. Eppink, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1994 through May 31, 1994, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

DELETION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. FRANKLIN G. MILLER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Mr. Franklin G. Miller as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for one year, effective January 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 9, 1994, be deleted.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAXINE S. AND JESSE W. BEAMS PROFESSORSHIP IN PHYSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Maxine S. and Jesse W. Beams Professorship in Physics. The Board is grateful to the late Mrs. Maxine S. Beams who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT P. BLACK RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Robert P. Black Research Professorship. The Board is grateful to Mr. Robert P. and Mrs. Mary Rives Black who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

NAMING OF THE MATHEMATICS/ASTRONOMY BUILDING
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Mathematics/Astronomy Building be named The William J. Kerchof Building.

ELECTION OF GENERAL BRENT SCOWCROFT TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that General Brent Scowcroft be elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for four years, effective June 11, 1994.

ELECTION OF MR. THOMAS A. MOORE TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Thomas A. Moore be elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for two years, effective June 11, 1994.

ELECTION OF MR. ALAN MURRAY TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Alan Murray be elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for three years, effective June 11, 1994.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. CLAYTON E. WILHITE TO THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER COUNCIL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Clayton E. Wilhite be re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for five years, effective June 11, 1994.

APPROVAL OF M.A. DEGREE IN CLINICAL ETHICS
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Master of Arts (M.A.) Degree in Clinical Ethics be established jointly in the School of Medicine and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, subject to the approval by the State Council of Higher Education.

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Clinch Valley College was founded in 1954 as a branch college of the University of Virginia, and ever since has offered educational programs and services which are an important and vital part of the University's mission to the Commonwealth; andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors last affirmed the relationship between the College and the University in 1972; andWHEREAS the Faculty of the College and the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council have expressed their desire to sustain and nurture the College's affiliation with the University;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors affirms its desire to continue serving as the statutory authority of Clinch Valley College, and further that the Board supports strengthening and enhancing the relationship between the College and the University, a relationship that is unique among Virginia's senior colleges and universities.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE WYLLIE LIBRARY PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Thompson and Litton, Inc., of Wise, Virginia, be approved for the performance of basic architectural and engineering services for the Clinch Valley College Wyllie Library Project.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENTS FOR THE VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ON UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement, dated July 1, 1994, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company, which grants a 90-foot by 110-foot easement to construct, operate, and maintain an electric substation on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and located east of the North Grounds Heating Plant in the North Grounds Precinct, is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that a second deed of easement, dated July 1, 1994, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company, which grants an easement to install, operate, and maintain underground powerlines across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved. The powerlines travel in two routes. The first route is along Massie Road proceeding between the Law School and the Judge Advocate General's School and terminating at the new North Grounds Substation. The second route originates near the Barracks Road exit of the Route 29 North By-pass and proceeds behind the Judge Advocate General's School and terminates at the new North Grounds Substation;FURTHER RESOLVED that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deeds of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE 1994-1995 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1994-1995 Budget for the Academic Division as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1994-1995 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1994-95 Budget for Clinch Valley College as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1994-1995 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1994-1995 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1994-1995 BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt as a supplement of appropriations made by the State of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in Arts and Sciences in an amount not to exceed $2,360,000, for 1994-95, as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the deans of each school, and as approved by the Vice President and Provost, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, the President, and the Finance Committee, be approved. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period January 1, 1994 through April 30, 1994, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 1994-1995
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 1994-1995, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

REPORT ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON MAY 5, 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the actions of the Executive Committee on May 5, 1995, relating to the amendments to the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, and the resolution adopted by the Committee relative to an agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

APPROVAL OF THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION, 1994-1995
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

1993-94

1994-95 PROPOSED

Normal Entrance Rate(1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

Normal Entrance Rate(1)

Normal Increments Amt.

Interval

GENERAL FACULTY (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

Professor

$45,400

$46,900

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$37,700

$38,900

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$30,700

$31,700

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$21,600

$22,300

(2)

1 year

PRE-CLINICAL FACULTY(3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (4)

Department Head

$61,000

$63,000

(2)

1 year

Professor

$53,400

$55,200

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

$43,900

$45,400

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$35,200

$36,400

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$27,600

$28,500

(2)

1 year

JUNIOR STAFF (3)

Research Assistant

$18,000

$18,000

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

$18,600

$18,600

(2)

1 year

SPONSORED PROGRAMS (3)

Research Scientist

$28,600

$29,600

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist

$35,800

$37,000

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist

$55,000

$56,900

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plans applicable to staff holding faculty positions in the Academic Division be approved, effective July 1, 1994: 1993-941994-95 PROPOSEDNormal Entrance Rate(1) (1)Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted. Normal Entrance Rate(1)Normal Increments Amt.IntervalGENERAL FACULTY (4) (4)The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience. Professor$45,400$46,900(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$37,700$38,900(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$30,700$31,700(2)1 yearInstructor$21,600$22,300(2)1 yearPRE-CLINICAL FACULTY(3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis. (4)Department Head$61,000$63,000(2)1 yearProfessor$53,400$55,200(2)1 yearAssociate Professor$43,900$45,400(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$35,200$36,400(2)1 yearInstructor$27,600$28,500(2)1 yearJUNIOR STAFF (3)Research Assistant$18,000$18,000(2)1 yearResearch Associate$18,600$18,600(2)1 yearSPONSORED PROGRAMS (3)Research Scientist$28,600$29,600(2)1 yearSenior Scientist$35,800$37,000(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist$55,000$56,900(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on session basis unless otherwise noted.

The rank Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure of faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual basis.

Authority is hereby delegated to the President to make one-time special payments to selected faculty in recognition of extraordinary achievement.

APPROVAL OF THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------

1993-94

1994-95 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increments Amt.

Interval

RANK

Professor

$34,200

$35,200

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$29,500

$30,400

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$25,400

$26,200

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$21,700

$22,400

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be approved, effective July 1, 1994: 1993-941994-95 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal Increments Amt.IntervalRANKProfessor$34,200$35,200(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$29,500$30,400(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$25,400$26,200(2)1 yearInstructor$21,700$22,400(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

APPROVAL OF CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGY FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scale 1993-94

Scale 1994-95

State Maximum

University Ceiling

State Maximum

University Ceiling

RANK

Professor and Department Head

$87,400

$212,100

$90,400

$219,300

Professor and Division Head

$82,900

$201,200

$85,700

$208,000

Professor

$79,700

$193,300

$82,400

$199,900

Associate Professor and Division Head

$72,100

$174,800

$74,600

$180,700

Associate Professor

$69,300

$168,000

$71,700

$173,700

Assistant Professor

$61,300

$148,700

$63,400

$153,800

Instructor

$48,100

$116,600

$49,700

$120,600

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that, subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical and Pathology Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1994: Scale 1993-94Scale 1994-95State MaximumUniversity CeilingState MaximumUniversity CeilingRANKProfessor and Department Head$87,400$212,100$90,400$219,300Professor and Division Head$82,900$201,200$85,700$208,000Professor$79,700$193,300$82,400$199,900Associate Professor and Division Head$72,100$174,800$74,600$180,700Associate Professor$69,300$168,000$71,700$173,700Assistant Professor$61,300$148,700$63,400$153,800Instructor$48,100$116,600$49,700$120,600

AUTHORIZATION TO EFFECT CAPITAL ADVANCES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the guidelines for the University of Virginia's Consolidated Endowment provide for loans to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation of up to 10% of the total Endowment; andWHEREAS the total Endowment as of March 31, 1994, had a market value of $654 million; andWHEREAS the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation seeks to borrow an additional $2 million from the Endowment, and such amount, in combination with the $33 million in non-interest bearing loans and the $4 million in interest bearing loans currently committed falls below the 10% cap; andWHEREAS the interest rate on the proposed $2 million in additional loans will be variable and based on short-term interest rates; andWHEREAS the cash collateral of the Consolidated Endowment's security lending program is invested in securities with similar interest rates and therefore the proposed loans would be attractive investments for such collateral;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves and authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to effect capital advances to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation in an amount not to exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000.00), for use by the Foundation consistent with its purpose as stated in the Foundation's Articles of Incorporation;RESOLVED FURTHER that the obligation of the Foundation to repay such advances from the University shall be evidenced by Promissory Note(s) (Attachment A), provided that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized, at his discretion, to revise, amend, alter or supplement the terms of such Promissory Note(s) in order to preserve and advance the University's interests in these investment transactions.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO APPROVE THE USE OF A CONTRACTED TRUST ADMINISTRATOR AND THE CHARGING OF THE RELATED FEES TO GIFTS OF TRUSTS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University desires to use the services of a contracted trust administrator to administer gifts of trusts to the University and to charge the fees to those trusts; andWHEREAS the University desires to pass on to the trusts any investment management fees incurred in the management of trusts;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or his designee to approve the use of a contracted trust administrator to administer gifts of trusts to the University and to charge the related investment management and administrative fees to such trusts.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING INTERNAL LOANS TO BE MADE IN THE DISCRETIONARY COLLATERAL ACCOUNT LENDING PROGRAM (SECURITY LENDING PROGRAM)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that internal loans to University departments and activities, which are currently made in the Current Funds Portfolio and subject to the approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, may also be made in the Discretionary Collateral Account Lending Program (Security Lending Program), subject to the same approval authority, effective June 11, 1994.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN MEDICAL CENTER SERVICE RATES FOR FISCAL YEAR 1994-1995
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the rates for services provided by the University of Virginia Medical Center be increased by 3.6%, effective at the close of business on August 31, 1994.

AMENDMENTS TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS 1991
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: Amend Section 2:21 of the Manual to read as follows:WHEREAS, in accordance with the authorization granted by Virginia Code Section 23-9.2:5, the Manual of the Board of Visitors 1991 provides for the appointment of a full-time student to serve as a non-voting member of the Board of Visitors;WHEREAS, that statute leaves it to the discretion of boards of visitors to determine whether the non-voting student representatives shall be excluded from executive session "discussions of faculty grievances, faculty or staff disciplinary matters or salaries" and, as a consequence, Section 2.21 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors 1991 has provided that "the student member shall not be entitled to attend executive sessions of either the Board or of any of the committees of the Board"; andWHEREAS, the prevailing past practice of the Board has been to permit the non-voting student member to attend executive sessions of the Board and of its committees; andWHEREAS, the election of the non-voting student member should come at the mid-point of the academic year in order that the member might serve in the most effective manner.RESOLVED that, pursuant to the amendment procedure prescribed in Section 5.9 the Executive Committee hereby recommends to the full Board of Visitors that Section 2.21 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors 1991 be amended as follows:Section 2.21 Student Non-Voting Member - At the first regular meeting of the second semester of the academic session each year, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Board of Visitors may appoint for a term of one year, a full-time student at the University of Virginia as a non-voting member of the Board of Visitors, in addition to those members referred to in Section 2.2 above. Such student may attend and participate in a non-voting capacity in the deliberations and meetings of the Standing Committees of the Board as well as meetings of the Board itself.Amend Section 2.1 (Board's Power and Duties - excerpt) and Section 4.22 (President's Powers and Duties - excerpt) to read as follows:Section 2.4 Board's Powers and Duties - \[Excerpt\]5 the election of a Rector, President, Comptroller, General Counsel and Secretary, and the election of salaried members of the faculty, except for those faculty members designated by the President during the period between meetings of the Board, at which time the President's actions shall be formally ratified by the Board; at its next regular meeting;8 the approval of promotions of faculty members to the ranks of associate professor, full professor, and professor emeritus;Section 4.22 \[President's\] Powers and Duties - \[Excerpt\]4 he shall have the power to establish and modify as he deems necessary the internal administrative structure of the University and shall appoint, or provide for the appointment of, all administrative officers and members of the general faculty, except for the Vice-Presidents, and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, and he shall prescribe the duties and set the salary for all administrative officers, and members of the general faculty, except as otherwise required by law or as provided herein;5 he shall recommend to the Board the election, and initial compensation, of salaried members of the faculty holding professorial rank, promotions of faculty members to the ranks of associate professor, full professor, and professor emeritus, and the removal of faculty members for cause;6 he shall have the delegated authority, except as otherwise required by law or as provided herein, to appoint, re-appoint, set the salaries, approve leaves of absences, and accept the resignation of all faculty members, after their initial appointment by the Board;15 he shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board; and16 he may, by resolutions approved by the Board, subdelegate any of the foregoing powers and duties to subordinate administrative officers, except as otherwise required by law or as provided herein.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO CHRISTINA ANN HOWE
------------------------------------------------

The President will propose the adoption of the following resolution:

WHEREAS Christina Ann Howe was elected to the Board of Visitors as Student Member in April 1993; and

WHEREAS Ms. Howe has been a student at the University for six years, having taken a B.S. in Commerce in 1989, and, after three years away from the University, an M.B.A. from the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration last month; and

WHEREAS Ms. Howe contributed significantly to the life of the University both as an undergraduate and as a graduate student, and earned great respect from her peers; and

WHEREAS Ms. Howe has been an invaluable member of the Board of Visitors, serving with diligence and discretion and bringing to her colleagues on the Board perspectives of the University they might otherwise not have had;

RESOLVED that the Board thanks Chris Howe for her devoted service to the Board of Visitors and to the University, and wishes her well as she leaves Charlottesville to embark on her career.

INTRODUCTION OF MS. ALLISON S. LINNEY
-------------------------------------

The Rector introduced Ms. Allison S. Linney, the newly elected non-voting student on the Board. Ms. Linney, who is a fourth-year student in the College, will serve until April 9, 1995.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The Rector reported on gifts, grants, and contracts. The report was accepted by the Board.

AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE 1993-1994 FACULTY SALARIES AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approve 1993-1994 salary increases for the faculty of Clinch Valley College, effective December 1, 1993, in accordance with the Consolidated Salary Authorization for Faculty Positions in Institutions of Higher Education and in an amount not to exceed the average salary increase granted by the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1993-1994.

RESOLUTION MEMORIALIZING IRBY BRUCE CAUTHEN, JR.
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Irby Bruce Cauthen, Jr., a South Carolinian, took the Master of Arts and the Doctor of Philosophy in English from the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS Mr. Cauthen returned to the University in 1954, as Assistant Professor of English, rising to Associate Professor and then Professor in 1964, and finally Professor Emeritus in 1987; andWHEREAS Mr. Cauthen was Assistant Dean, Associate Dean, and Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences from 1962 to 1978; andWHEREAS Mr. Cauthen received numerous awards and honors during his career at the University, including the Thomas Jefferson Award; andWHEREAS Mr. Cauthen will be remembered by innumerable students as a superb teacher and by colleagues for his scholarship and for his qualities as a most capable administrator;RESOLVED that the Board expresses its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Cauthen and her family on the death of Irby Bruce Cauthen, Jr., and notes, too, this profound loss to the University of Virginia.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO EXECUTE A DINING SERVICES CONTRACT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University of Virginia desires to renew a contract with a vendor for the provision of contract dining, catering, retail, vending, and concessions services with an estimated revenue to the University of $2.6 million per year for a five-year period, to become effective July 1, 1994; andWHEREAS the University has the option to renew a contract with the current vendor without re-opening the competitive procurement process;RESOLVED that the University may enter into a contract with ARASERVE, Inc. (ARA) to provide these services and that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to execute the contract prepared by the Chief Contracting Officer and approved by the General Counsel of the University.

AUTHORIZATION TO ENROLL HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS IN QUALCHOICE OF VIRGINIA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS legislation enacted by the 1990 General Assembly authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals employed in the University of Virginia Medical Center; andWHEREAS the University of Virginia and the Health Services Foundation have established a corporate entity called the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., to provide a new managed health care program to employers in the Charlottesville-Albemarle region; andWHEREAS the enrollment of Health Care Professionals in the new managed care program is essential for its success;RESOLVED that the enrollment of the University of Virginia Medical Center Health Care Professionals in QualChoice of Virginia is approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after October 1, 1994.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE GILMER HALL INFRASTRUCTURE RENOVATION/PLANNING PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Bohlin Cywinski Jackson of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, be approved for the performance of basic architectural and engineering services for the Gilmer Hall Infrastructure Renovation/Planning project.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:20 a.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: June 11, 1994

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

absent

Albert H. Small

yes

Chris A. Howe

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, June 11, 1994 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesWarner N. DalhouseyesDaniel A. HoffleryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieabsentAlbert H. SmallyesChris A. Howeyes
