---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1994'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1994) November 11, 1994
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 11, 1994

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA November 11-12, 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:50 a.m., on Friday, November 11, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Daniel A. Hoffler, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:30 a.m., on Saturday, November 12, 1994, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Don E. Detmer, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 10-11, 1994, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector thanked Mr. McNeely for his gift of $700,000, to the Capital Campaign, Mr. Hoffler for his gift of $100,000, and Mr. Butcher for his gift.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Audit by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Division of Continuing Education, the Office of African-American Affairs, the Financial Accounting System, the Human Resources System Physical and Data Security, the Housing Division, NCAA Compliance, the Endocrinology Research Laboratory, Employment Services, ITC Physical Security in Gilmer Hall, the School of Nursing, the Pharmacy, Pay Adjustments for Selected Personnel, Brown College, the Emergency Room, ISIS Security, the School of Architecture, ITC Data Control Follow-up and Network Operations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing certain investment and real estate matters which if made public initially they may adversely affect the University's financial interests, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (3) and (6) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing potential contractual transactions and investment initiatives involving the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (6) and (8) of The Code of Virginia.

Following an Executive Session of the full Board and Committee meetings on Friday, November 11, 1994, and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board on November 12, the full Board resumed in Open Session at 10:30 a.m., on Saturday, November 12, 1994.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Douglas A. Bayliss as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period June 1, 1994 through April 30, 1997.Dr. Asher Brand as Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1994.Mr. Edward S. Brinkley as Assistant Professor of German, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Theodore S. Brockett as Acting Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Josephine Dee Brucia as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Susan Chaplinsky as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Bruce J. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Wendy F. Cohn as Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective August 1, 1994.Dr. Lynn A. D'Andrea as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Romano Danesi as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1994 through May 31, 1995.Dr. Gregory G. Degnan as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Peter A. Dewitz as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Michael A. Dritschel as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Dennis P. Duffy as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Deborah Eisenberg as Professor of English, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. William R. Emanuel as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 19, 1994.Dr. Daniel W. Fort as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective October 15, 1994.Dr. Thomas J. Gampper as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Carmen M. Garcia as Associate Professor of Spanish, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Elizabeth Garrett as Research Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Jack L. Goldsmith as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Ming Cui Gong as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. S. Bernard Goodwyn as Research Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. George D. Greenia as Associate Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Margaret M. Grogan as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Joseph W. Harder as Visiting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Shelley Y. Huffstutler as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert Hull as Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective November 1, 1994.Mr. Isa M. Hussaini as Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, for one year, effective May 1, 1994.Mr. Erich A. Joachimsthaler as Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Vern C. Juel as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Larry R. Karns as Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, for two years, effective June 1, 1994.Mr. William C. Keene as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period June 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Robert G. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for two years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard Lee Kennedy as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Shun-Ichi Kimura as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. William D. Ling as Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Barbara D. MacCluer as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Coleen A. McNamara as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Daniel P. Moore as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective August 1, 1994.Ms. Pamela M. Norris as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Julie C. Novak as Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert E. Novak as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Neal R. Nygard as Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Carlos E. Orozco as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Stephen S. Park as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery for three years, effective August 1, 1994.Mr. Stephen M. Petterson as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Kathryn A. Poole as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Michael Ragosta as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Arvind K. Ramadorai as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Shawn L. Rickenbacker as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Edmund P. Russell, III as Assistant Professor of Technology, Culture and Communications, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Jorgen I. Schou as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Mark A. Shields as Assistant Professor of Technology, Culture and Communications, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Oleg N. Smirnov as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Jonathan H. Spindel as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. John Douglas Story, II as Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Kevin J. Sullivan as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Sun-sang J. Sung as Associate Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1994.Mr. Panagiotis Tsiotras as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Amy L. Tucker as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David A. Waldner as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Ms. Amy L. Wax as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Lisa M. Wheatley as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1994.Ms. Ellen M. Whittemore as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. George K. Yin as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Jeffrey S. Young as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Stephen B. Cushman as Mayo Distinguished Teaching Professor of English, for three years, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Cushman will continue as Professor of English, without term.Mr. Cornelius O. Horgan as Wills Johnson Professor of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. James Hunter as William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. William A. McDonough as Elson Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard W. Miksad as Thomas M. Linville Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Margaret E. Mohrmann as Harrison Medical Teaching Associate Professor of Generalist Medicine, for the period September 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997. Dr. Mohrmann will continue as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term.Ms. Barbara Nolan as Robert C. Taylor Professor of English, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. William B. Quandt as Harry Flood Byrd, Jr. Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert N. Sayler as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1995.Mr. Werner Seligmann as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Architecture, for the period October 19, 1994 through December 16, 1994.Mr. Gary J. Shiflet as William G. Reynolds Professor of Materials Science, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Kimberly J. Smith as Morris Visiting Associate Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Robert A. Strong as Compton Visiting Professor in World Politics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner as William Clay Parrish, Jr. Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Wagoner will continue as Professor of Education, without term.Dr. Gwo-Jaw Wang as Lillian T. Pratt Professor of Orthopaedics, effective August 1, 1994.Mr. Douglas J. White as Nancy and Neal Wade Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1994.(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. James F. Deetz from David A. Harrison III Visiting Professor of New World Studies to David A. Harrison III Professor of New World Studies, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Don E. Detmer from University Professor of Health Sciences to University Professor of Health Policy, effective August 16, 1994. Dr. Detmer will continue as Professor of Surgery, without term.Mr. E.D. Hirsch, Jr. from University Professor to University Professor of Education and Humanities, effective August 27, 1994. Mr. Hirsch will continue as Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, without term.Mr. Harry W. Porter from Elson Professor of Architecture to Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1994.(c) Resignations of Chairholder(s)

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Thomas H. Jackson, Brokaw Professor of Corporate Law, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.(d) Appointments of Chairholder(s)

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William A. McDonough as Dean, School of Architecture, for five years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Richard W. Miksad as Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective September 1, 1994.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Ms. Paula Q. Barrett from Associate Professor of Pharmacology (with term) to Associate Professor of Pharmacology (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Bruce G. Bateman from Associate Professor of Obstetrics & Gynecology (with term) to Associate Professor of Obstetrics & Gynecology (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Timothy P. Bender from Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Edward Hiltner Bertram, III from Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Ann L. Beyer from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Stephen M. Borowitz from Associate Professor of Pediatrics (with term) to Associate Professor of Pediatrics (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Mark S. Braiman from Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Randolph J. Canterbury from Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Carl E. Creutz from Associate Professor of Pharmacology to Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Douglas W. DeSimone from Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Dennis C. Donat from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, Western State Hospital to Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Gerald R. Donowitz from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Spencer B. Gay from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. R. Ariel Gomez from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Steven L. Gonias from Associate Professor of Pathology (without term) and Associate Professor of Biochemistry (with term) to Professor of Pathology (without term) and Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Gary J. Gorbsky from Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Cell Biology, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Clinical Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Donald J. Innes, Jr. from Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Michael L. Johnson from Associate Professor of Pharmacology (without term) and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Pharmacology (without term) and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Victor C. Lee from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Joel M. Linden from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Internal Medicine (without term) and Associate Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Maurice H. Lipper from Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Associate Professor of Radiology (without term) and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Mark A. Lovell from Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Pathology and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Paul G. Matherne, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for four years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Paul D. Mintz from Associate Professor of Pathology and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Pathology (without term) and Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. John P. Mugler, III from Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Associate Professor of Radiology (without term) and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Sunil Nath from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sarah J. Parsons from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. R. Jahan Ramazani from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1994.Dr. George F. Rich from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Charles E. Rose, Jr. from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. John C. Rowlingson from Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Gordon S. Rule from Assistant Professor of Biochemistry to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. John B. Schorling from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Karen J. Schwenzer from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Zhifeng Shao from Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics (with term) to Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Ellen Shaw de Paredes from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. William D. Spotnitz from Associate Professor of Surgery to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. David J. Stone from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Lukas K. Tamm from Assistant Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Curtis G. Tribble from Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Surgery (without term), effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Jonathon D. Truwit from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Sharon W. Utz from Associate Professor of Nursing (with term) to Associate Professor of Nursing (without term), effective September 1, 1994.Dr. Mary Lee Vance from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Mark E. Warchol from Research Associate in Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery to Assistant Professor of Research in Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective April 1, 1994.Mr. David B. Waters from Associate Professor of Family Medicine and Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Professor of Family Medicine and Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Van D. Westervelt from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Mr. James R. Brookeman from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Radiology, for the period of July 16, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi from Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective August 1, 1994.Dr. Kathryn L. Weise from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through August 31, 1994.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Robert C. Allen, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, effective August 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Bruce A. Averill, Professor of Chemistry, effective January 16, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. Timothy D. Averill, Assistant Professor of Drama, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Catherine M. Bonuccelli, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 18, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Susan E. Brodt, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, effective August 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Janis C. Childs, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Donna Cregan-Lambert, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Dr. Andre P. Derdeyn, Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Steven R. Donaldson, Assistant Professor of Research in Biomedical Engineering, effective August 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Jay E. Farina, Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective May 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Mr. William R. Fendley, Jr., Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective September 12, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Willard L. Fitch, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective September 16, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Kathleen R. Fletcher, Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, effective June 6, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Jorge A. Flores, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective July 31, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Gail T. Galasko, Associate Professor of Research in Pharmacology, effective September 30, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Clarice P. Hays, Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Ira D. Jacobson, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Jaushin Lee, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 8, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Jacqueline Lichtman, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective August 15, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Esther M. Lin, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1994, for personal reasons.Dr. Michelle-Marie Martel, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1994, to enter private practice.Dr. Laura L. Norling, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Yunbae Pak, Assistant Professor of Research in Pharmacology, effective September 30, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Deborah Phillips, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. William J. Price-Wilkin, Associate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective August 31, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Mantripragada B. Sankaram, Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry, effective September 1, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Denise C. Schain, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Ellen Shaw de Paredes, Professor of Radiology, effective September 9, 1994, to accept another position.Ms. Catherine J. Webb, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective July 16, 1994, to accept another position.Mr. Jie Yang, Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective September 15, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Eurico de Arruda Neto, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1994, to return to school.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. George M. Bell, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective September 30, 1994. Dr. Bell has been a member of the faculty since August 1, 1976.Mr. Martin R. Davis, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Davis has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1953.Dr. Milton T. Edgerton, Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective June 30, 1994. Dr. Edgerton has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1970.Mr. Mahlon G. Kelly, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 31, 1994. Mr. Kelly has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Ms. Mary A. Kraehe, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective October 20, 1994. Ms. Kraehe has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Mr. Lincoln V. Lewis, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Lewis has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1988.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Laurie P. Kelsh as Assistant to the Vice President for Management and Budget, for the period June 20, 1994 through June 30, 1997.Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Interim Dean, School of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. John T. Ashley as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences, for one year, effective May 23, 1994.Ms. Melinda D. Church as Assistant to the President, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. William H. Fishback, Jr. as Special Advisor to the President, for the period July 1, 1994 through August 31, 1994.Mr. Lincoln V. Lewis as Director, Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action and Advisor to the President, for the period July 1, 1994 through August 31, 1994.Ms. Kathrine M. Reed as Associate Provost for Management, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Carl W. Stenberg, III as Director, Center for Public Service, for five years, effective October 1, 1994.Mr. Milton E. Turner as Dean of African-American Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Election of Professors Emeritus
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Milton T. Edgerton, Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective June 30, 1994.

Election of Associate Professors Emeritus
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Mahlon G. Kelly, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 31, 1994.

Deaths
------

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. CHANG S. HAHN
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective March 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective April 1, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF DR. GUY MORLEY HARBERT, JR.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election to Professor Emeritus of Dr. Guy Morley Harbert, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Guy Morley Harbert, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective December 31, 1994. Dr. Harbert has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1963.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. MARK R. HELLER
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Mark R. Heller as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective May 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Mark R. Heller as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective May 16, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF DR. MAURICE H. LIPPER
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Dr. Maurice H. Lipper from Associate Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology, for one year, effective May 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Maurice H. Lipper from Associate Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology, for the period May 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994.

CHANGE IN THE RE-ELECTION OF MS. SHARON PETRO
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Ms. Sharon Petro as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Sharon Petro as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1994.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEElections
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Suzanne A. Hubbard as Assistant Professor of Art, Clinch Valley College, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Stanley C. Kunigelis as Associate Professor of Zoology, Clinch Valley College, for three academic years, effective September 12, 1994.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Mr. D. Michael Donathan from Associate Professor of Music to Professor of Music, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. David L. Kendall from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of Economics, Clinch Valley College, for two years, effective September 1, 1994.Mr. Roman I. Zylawy from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1994.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Dorothy M. Coleman, Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1994, for personal reasons.

Election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Acting Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences Elect
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. Robert W. Cantrell be and he is hereby elected as Acting Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences Elect, for the period July 1, 1994 through January 1, 1995.

Election of Mr. William H. Harmon as Vice President for Student Affairs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. William H. Harmon be and he is hereby elected as Vice President for Student Affairs, for five years, effective August 15, 1994.

Election of Mr. Peter W. Low as Vice President and Provost
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Peter W. Low be and he is hereby elected as Vice President and Provost, for five years, effective July 1, 1994.

Re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr. be and he is hereby re-elected as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for five years, effective August 2, 1994.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALICE GRIFFIN PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGLISH LITERATURE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Alice Griffin Professorship in English Literature. The Board is grateful to Mr. John A. Griffin who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE T. CARY JOHNSON, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the T. Cary Johnson, Jr., Professorship in History. The Board is grateful to an anonymous donor who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDGAR A STARKE, JR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN MATERIALS SCIENCE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Edgar A. Starke, Jr., Professorship in Materials Science. The Board is grateful to Mr. E. Morgan Massey and Mr. Sture G. Olsson who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION, THE HONORABLE HUGH SCOTT
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS The Honorable Hugh Scott was born in Fredericksburg on November 11, 1900, took his A.B. from Randolph-Macon College in 1919, and his LL.B from the University of Virginia in 1922; andWHEREAS Mr. Scott practiced law in Philadelphia for many years, and served with great distinction for 34 years in the United States Congress, first in the House of Representatives as the member from the Sixth District of Pennsylvania, and then in the Senate where he was elected Minority Leader; andWHEREAS Mr. Scott's service to the country in Washington, particularly during several periods of great national political crisis, earned him the admiration and respect of the nation; andWHEREAS Mr. Scott was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1971, and served two terms, until 1979; andWHEREAS Mr. Scott also served the University with distinction as a friend and advisor in Washington; andWHEREAS Mr. Scott died on July 21, 1994;RESOLVED that the Board expresses its deepest sympathy to Senator Scott's daughter, Mrs. Concannon, and her children, on the death of Hugh Scott, and notes his years of service to the Board of Visitors and to the University of Virginia.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION, LANGBOURNE MEADE WILLIAMS, JR.
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Langbourne Meade Williams, Jr., was born in Richmond in 1903, to a family with innumerable and very distinguished ties to the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS Mr. Williams took his B.A. from the University in 1924, and an M.B.A. from Harvard University in 1926, before embarking on a most successful business career; andWHEREAS Mr. Williams made valuable contributions to the life of the Commonwealth; andWHEREAS Mr. Williams served on the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, and was a generous and thoughtful supporter of the University; andWHEREAS Mr. Williams helped organize, and then unfailingly supported, the Society of Fellows of the University; andWHEREAS Mr. Williams died on September 8, 1994;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia expresses its deepest sympathy to the family of Mr. Williams and notes his years of devoted service to the University.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR B.F.D. RUNK
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Benjamin Franklin Dewees Runk was born in Pennsylvania, on April 10, 1906; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk took a Bachelor of Science from the University in 1929, the Master of Science in 1930, and the Ph.D. in Biology in 1939; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk joined the faculty in 1936, and, after service in the United States Navy during the Second World War, became a full Professor of Biology in 1956; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk was Advisor to Students from 1956 to 1959, and Dean of the University from 1959 to 1968; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk also served the University as Grand Marshal and in many other ways, including chairmanship of the committees that planned the University's Sesquicentennial celebrations in 1969, the inauguration of President Hereford in 1974, and the ceremonies commemorating the national Bicentennial in 1976; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk is remembered by generations of students as an inspired teacher, as a stern but always fair disciplinarian, and as a firm advocate of responsible student self-governance; andWHEREAS Mr. Runk died in Charlottesville on August 28, 1994;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia honors the memory of Benjamin Franklin Dewees Runk and his life of devotion and service to the University, and expresses its deepest sympathy to his family.

ADOPTION OF THE GOVERNOR'S STATEMENT ON EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AS UNIVERSITY POLICY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following statement of the Governor of Virginia identified as Executive Order Number 1 (94), dated the 15th day of January, 1994, be and it is hereby adopted as an official policy of the University of Virginia:Executive Order Number 1 (94)It is the firm and unwavering policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia to assure equal opportunity in all facets of state government.This policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or political affiliation, or against otherwise qualified persons with disabilities.State appointing authorities and other management principals are hereby directed to take affirmative measures, as determined by the Director, Department of Personnel and Training, to emphasize the recruitment of qualified minorities, women, disabled persons, and older Virginians to serve at all levels of state government. This directive does not permit or require the lowering of bona fide job requirements, performance standards, or qualifications to give preference to any state employee or applicant for state employment.Allegations of violations of this policy shall be brought to the attention of the Office of Equal Employment Services of the Department of Personnel and Training. No state appointing authority, other management principals, or supervisors shall take retaliatory actions against persons making such allegations.Any state employee found in violation of this policy shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on gifts, grants and contracts for the period April 1, 1994 through September 23, 1994, as well as for the Fiscal Year which ended June 30, 1994. The report was accepted by the Board.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY ON THE NORTH SIDE OF FONTAINE AVENUE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated November 15, 1994, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the Virginia Department of Transportation, which dedicates to public use 1) a strip of land 21.77 feet wide by 638.45 feet long, and 2) two drainage easements, one 1,308.83 square feet and the other 1,106.74 square feet, across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to become a permanent part of the widening of Fontaine Avenue in the vicinity of the entrance to the University Real Estate Foundation's Fontaine Research Park, is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF SITING AND ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE REBUILDING AND EXPANSION OF UNIVERSITY HALL AND RELATED FACILITIES PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Siting and Architectural Design Guidelines, dated September 7, 1994, for the development of the rebuilding and expansion of University Hall and related facilities project are approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF TRAFFIC PLANNING AND ENGINEER SELECTION FOR THE 1995 FACILITIES MASTER PLAN UPDATE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Chance Management Advisors, Inc., of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, be approved for the performance of traffic planning and engineering services required for the oversight of intermodal traffic planning and the coordination of the University's parking and traffic needs with those of the City of Charlottesville and Albemarle County.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE 1995 FACILITIES MASTER PLAN UPDATE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Ayers Saint Gross of Baltimore, Maryland, be approved for the performance of architectural and landscape architectural planning services to respond to and reflect the academic program set forth in the University's Vision Statement, to more fully integrate the University and Health Sciences Center Master Plans, to address in greater depth and detail issues from the 1990 Plan, to include studies and precinct plans which have been completed since 1990, and to incorporate new issues resulting from City, County and Commonwealth planning.

ACCEPTANCE OF THE WTJU ANNUAL REPORT
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the WTJU 1993-1994 Annual Report to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, be accepted.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN PER SHARE CONSOLIDATED INCOME DISTRIBUTION FOR FISCAL YEAR 1994-1995, AND APPROVAL OF EMINENT SCHOLAR INCOME DISTRIBUTION FOR FISCAL YEAR 1994-1995
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to increase the per share Consolidated income distribution for Fiscal Year 1994-1995, by four percent over the amount distributed for Fiscal Year 1993-1994. The per share income distribution for Fiscal Year 1994-1995, will be $42.57, for the Consolidated Endowment; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to distribute $16.52 per share as the Eminent Scholar income distribution for the Fiscal Year 1994-1995.

APPROVAL TO ISSUE BONDS FOR THE NEWCOMB HALL RENOVATION
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1994" (the "1994 Act") which has been signed by the Governor;WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects include student union facilities (Capital Outlay Project Number 15400) (the "Project") for the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will become a component of a student activity system (the "System"); andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $11,997,000 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees, and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the Project and, if applicable, the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the Project or, if applicable, the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown in the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to make the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts, which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United State of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with the due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project Bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b)(4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.

APPROVAL TO ISSUE REVENUE BONDS FOR THE STUDENT RESIDENCE FACILITY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, there has been passed by the General Assembly of Virginia an act entitled "Commonwealth of Virginia Higher Educational Institutions Bond Act of 1994" (the "1994 Act") which has been signed by the Governor;WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Treasury Board") is authorized, by and with the consent of the Governor, to sell and issue bonds of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of providing funds, with other available funds, for paying the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, enlarging, improving and equipping certain revenue-producing capital projects at certain institutions of higher learning of the Commonwealth and for paying issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses (the "Financing Expenses"), all in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(c) of Article X of the Constitution of Virginia;WHEREAS, such revenue-producing capital projects includes residence hall facilities (Capital Outlay Project Number 15472) (the "Project") for the University of Virginia (the "Institution"), which will become a component of a dormitory system (the "System"); andWHEREAS, the Treasury Board is proposing to sell and issue bonds pursuant to the Act for such revenue-producing capital projects, in one or more series;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the Institution (the "Board") requests the Treasury Board to sell and issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $6,000,000 to finance all or a portion of the cost of the Project plus Financing Expenses (the "Project Bonds"). The Project Bonds will be identified by amount and maturities by the State Treasurer upon issuance of any bonds.Section 2. The Board (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees, and charges, including without limitation dormitory rents, for or in connection with the use, occupation and services of the Project and, if applicable, the System and (b) pledges such rates, fees and charges remaining after payment of the expenses of operating the Project or, if applicable, the System ("Net Revenues") to the payment of the principal of premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds. The Board further covenants that it will fix, revise, charge and collect such rates, fees and charges in such amounts so that Net Revenues will at all times be sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds and on any other obligations secured by Net Revenues (such payments collectively the "Required Payments"). The Project Bonds shall be secured on a parity with such other obligations so secured by Net Revenues (other than any obligations secured by a prior right in Net Revenues). Any Net Revenues pledged herein in excess of the Required Payments may be used by the Institution for any other lawful purpose.Section 3. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and advice of appropriate officials of the Institution, as shown in the Financial Feasibility Study attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated Net Revenues pledged herein will be sufficient to make the Required Payments so long as the aggregate amount of net debt service on the Project Bonds actually payable in any bond year does not exceed the amounts assumed in the Financial Feasibility Study.Section 4. The Board covenants that the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board its general purpose financial statements, within 30 days of their issuance and receipt, audited by a firm of certified public accountants or the Auditor of Public Accounts, which shall include a schedule of revenues and expenditures for auxiliary enterprise systems. At the same time, the Institution will furnish the Treasury Board a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Institution stating whether Net Revenues were sufficient to pay Required Payments during the period covered by such financial statements. If Net Revenues were insufficient to pay Required Payments during such period, such certificate shall include the Institution's plan to generate Net Revenues sufficient to make Required Payments in the future.Section 5. The Board covenants that so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will pay to the State Treasurer, not less than 30 days before each interest or principal payment date, the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable on such date as principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Project Bonds.Section 6. The Board covenants that the Institution will pay from time to time its proportionate share of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of any series of bonds that includes Project Bonds (the "Bonds") and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the Bonds, including without limitation the expense of calculating any rebate to the United State of the earnings derived from the investment of gross proceeds of the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the Institution.Section 7. The Board covenants that the Institution will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which will cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of Section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations issued pursuant thereto (the "Code"), or otherwise cause interest on the Bonds to be includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes under existing laws. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Institution will pay from time to time its proportional share of any rebate to the United States of the earnings derived from the investment of the gross proceeds of the Bonds.Section 8. The Board covenants that the Institution will proceed with the due diligence to undertake and complete the Project and that the Institution will spend all of the available proceeds derived from the sale of the Project Bonds for costs associated with the Project and appropriated for the Project by the General Assembly.Section 9. The Board covenants that the Institution will not permit the proceeds of the Project Bonds to be used in any manner that would result in (a) 5% or more of such proceeds being used in a trade or business carried on by any person other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(b) of the Code, (b) 5% or more of such proceeds being used with respect to any output facility within the meaning of Section 141(b)(4) of the Code, or (c) 5% or more of such proceeds being used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans to any persons other than a governmental unit, as provided in Section 141(c) of the Code. The Institution need not comply with such covenants if the Institution obtains the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such covenants need not be complied with to prevent the interest on the Bonds from being includable in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 10. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding the Institution will not enter into any operating lease, management contract or similar agreement with any person or entity, other than a state or local governmental unit, for all or any portion of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that entering into such agreement will not cause the interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 11. The Board covenants that for so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, the Institution will not sell or dispose of all or any part of the Project without first obtaining the written approval of the State Treasurer and an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel acceptable to the Treasury Board that such sale or disposition will not cause interest on the Bonds to be included in the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes.Section 12. The officers of the Institution are authorized and directed to execute and deliver all certificates and instruments and to take all such further action as may be considered necessary or desirable in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds.Section 13. The Board acknowledges that the Treasury Board will rely on the representations and covenants set forth herein in issuing the Bonds, that such covenants are critical to the security for the Bonds and the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from the gross income of the owners thereof for federal income tax purposes, that the Board will not repeal, revoke, rescind or amend any of such covenants without first obtaining the written approval of the Treasury Board, and that such covenants will be binding upon the Board so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding.Section 14. This resolution shall take effect immediately.(Exhibit A, referred to in the first paragraph on page 11, is available upon request).

APPROVAL TO ISSUE BONDS FOR THE NORTHERN VIRGINIA EDUCATION CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), confirms a corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University"); which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board");WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act"), classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education;WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any of such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board");WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any moneys available for the use of the University, including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), moneys appropriated to the University from the general fund of the Commonwealth or from nongeneral funds, without regard to the source of such moneys, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose;WHEREAS, the Board has determined to collaborate with Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in constructing and equipping a joint educational center to be located in Falls Church, Virginia (the "Project");WHEREAS, the Board, has determined to finance a portion of the costs of the Project through the issuance of its general revenue pledge bonds;WHEREAS, the Virginia General Assembly has authorized the issuance of bonds by the University and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University pursuant to Article X, Section 9(d) of the Constitution of Virginia in the maximum amount of $18,500,000, plus amounts needed to fund issuance costs, reserve funds and other financing expenses, to finance the Project pursuant to Chapter 965 of the 1994 Acts of the Virginia General Assembly;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:(Following pages of Resolution are not included - see attached Table of Contents).

APPROVAL OF MARKET ADJUSTMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS legislation enacted during the 1990 General Assembly session authorized the Board of Visitors to establish competitive compensation programs for Health Care Professionals employed in the University Medical Center; andWHEREAS in accordance with such legislation, the University's department of human resources conducted a semi-annual compensation survey of comparable hospitals in the Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest regions of the United States; andWHEREAS the survey results indicated that compensation for Health Care Professionals employed by the University is below the compensation provided for similar positions at the hospitals surveyed;RESOLVED that the Market Adjustments for Health Care Professionals, as stipulated on the document attached hereto \[see Attachment B\], be approved pending concurrence from the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF SALE OF REMAINDER INTEREST IN BEDFORD COUNTY, VIRGINIA PROPERTY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1/18th interest in approximately 1.22 acres of the property of the heirs-at-law of Nannie H. Griffin, located in Bedford County, Virginia, which was willed to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia circa 1925, and which is valued at $805.55, can be sold under deed of sale to Bedford County, so that the title of the land is cleared and the property can be used for a solid waste container site; andRESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of sale.

APPROVAL OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Alumni Association of the University of Virginia

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation

William C. Battle

Boar's Head Enterprises, Inc.

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Clinch Valley College Foundation

J. Thomas Hulvey

Curry School of Education Foundation

Elizabeth D. Morie

Darden School Foundation

Wallace Stettinius

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

Historic Renovation Corporation

David W. Carr

University of Virginia Law School Foundation

Mortimer M. Caplin

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

William R. Wilkerson

University of Virginia Medical School Foundation

Charles W. Miller

Miller Center Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University of Patents Foundation

Robert J. Mattauch

University of Virginia Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University Real Estate Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

Virginia Engineering Foundation

Patricia M. Kluge

Virginia Kidney Stone Foundation

Leigh B. Middleditch,

Virginia Student Aid Foundation

W. James Copeland, Jr.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby approved as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-related Foundations: Alumni Association of the University of VirginiaC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment FundRobert V. Hatcher, Jr.Virginia Auxiliary Services FoundationWilliam C. BattleBoar's Head Enterprises, Inc.Robert G. Butcher, Jr.Clinch Valley College FoundationJ. Thomas HulveyCurry School of Education FoundationElizabeth D. MorieDarden School FoundationWallace StettiniusUniversity of Virginia Health Services FoundationLeigh B. Middleditch, Jr. Historic Renovation CorporationDavid W. CarrUniversity of Virginia Law School FoundationMortimer M. CaplinMcIntire School of Commerce FoundationWilliam R. WilkersonUniversity of Virginia Medical School FoundationCharles W. MillerMiller Center FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity of Patents FoundationRobert J. MattauchUniversity of Virginia FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity Real Estate FoundationHovey S. DabneyVirginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.Virginia Engineering FoundationPatricia M. KlugeVirginia Kidney Stone FoundationLeigh B. Middleditch,Virginia Student Aid FoundationW. James Copeland, Jr.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1994, through September 30, 1994, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure for Deborah D. Gausvik, Organizational Support Manager, shall be as follows:All personnel matters for Deborah D. Gausvik will be handled by William Vining, Director of Employee Relations. William Vining reports directly to Thomas E. Gausvik, Chief Human Resources Officer, except in employment matters concerning Deborah D. Gausvik. In this capacity, William Vining reports to Colette Capone, Vice President for Management and Budget.RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure for Pamela K. Bouchard, Organizational Support Manager, shall be as follows:All personnel matters for Pamela K. Bouchard will be handled by Graham Grove, Director of Organizational Support. Graham Grove reports directly to Ronald Bouchard, Director of Medical Center Administration, except in employment matters concerning Pamela K. Bouchard. In this capacity, Graham Grove reports to Mary Bednar, Associate Executive Director of the Medical Center.

APPROVAL OF THE PURCHASE OF 102 AND 108 CRESAP ROAD PROPERTIES AND DARDEN DRIVE PROPERTY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LAND LEASE FOR EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER AND FIRE/RESCUE STATION
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the City of Charlottesville, the County of Albemarle, and the University of Virginia jointly operate the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and intend to build a new facility to house the EOC; andWHEREAS the County of Albemarle plans to add a fire and rescue station to the EOC facility in the future; andWHEREAS the City and the County have identified a site on University property immediately west of the current UVA police station as the preferred site for the EOC/fire/rescue station; andWHEREAS the western portion of the University Grounds, Westover, Birdwood, and the Boar's Head Inn property benefit from the improved response time afforded by a fire/rescue station at this site;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be and he is hereby authorized to (a) enter into a land lease with the City and the County to provide a site to accommodate the EOC/fire/rescue station west of the current University Police Department building, (b) seek necessary rezoning, and (c) adjust property lines as necessary to facilitate the land lease; andFURTHER RESOLVED that the provisions of the land lease include the following: a term of not more than 99 years annual rent of $1 per year storage space provided in the first phase facility for the exclusive use of the University Police Department at least equal to the space being given up in the old service station located on the site (that will be demolished as part of the construction project) UVA police dispatchers allowed to operate in the joint dispatch center as long as the lease is in effect such arrangements to constitute the University's contribution to the costs of constructing the EOC/fire/rescue station.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE STUDENT COUNCIL RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION OF SERVICE BY FOUR FORMER MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that last semester the Student Council adopted a resolution commending the years of service on the Board of J. Thomas Hulvey, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott. He said Council will present printed copies of the resolution to the four former members.

The Rector said he knew the Board of Visitors would want to join him in thanking the members of the Student Council for their thoughtfulness and their eloquent statement of appreciation. (See Attachment C for copy of Resolution).

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: November 11, 1994

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 14

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 3

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 3

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

absent

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Allison S. Linney

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, Nov. 11, 1994, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentDaniel A. HoffleryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandabsentEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallyesAllison S. Linneyyes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: November 12, 1994

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 1

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Allison S. Linney

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, November 12, 1994, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.yesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesN. Thomas ConnallyyesWarner N. DalhouseabsentDaniel A. HoffleryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. KlugeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallyesAllison S. Linneyyes

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS NOVEMBER 12, 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections to the Faculty

Resolutions Affecting Chairholders

Promotions

Changes of Title

Special Salary Actions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-Appointments

Election of Professors Emeritus

Election of Associate Professors Emeritus

Deaths

Miscellaneous Changes

Clinch Valley College Faculty Personnel Actions

Election of Messrs. Harmon and Low as Vice Presidents

Election of Dr. Cantrell as Acting Vice President

Re-election of Mr. Sandridge as Vice President

Establishment of Chairs:

The Alice Griffin Professorship in English Literature

The T. Cary Johnson, Jr. Professorship in History

The Edgar A. Starke, Jr. Research Professorship in Materials Science

Memorial Resolutions:

The Honorable Hugh Scott

Langbourne Meade Williams, Jr.

Benjamin Franklin Dewees Runk

Adoption of the Governor's Statement on Equal Employment Opportunity as University Policy

Approval of Easement for the Virginia Department of Transportation across University of Virginia property on the north side of Fontaine Avenue

Approval of siting and architectural design guidelines for the rebuilding and expansion of University Hall

Approval of traffic planning and engineer selection for the 1995 Facilities Master Plan update

Approval of the architect selection for the 1995 Facilities Master Plan update

Acceptance of the WTJU Annual Report

Approval of increase in per share consolidated income distribution for Fiscal Year 1994-1995, and approval of Eminent Scholar income distribution for Fiscal Year 1994-1995

Approval to issue bonds for the Newcomb Hall renovation

Approval to issue bonds for a student residence facility

Approval to issue bonds for the Northern Virginia Education Center

Approval of market adjustments for Health Care Professionals

Approval of sale of remainder interest in Bedford County, Virginia property

Approval of Board of Visitors representatives to the governing boards of University-related foundations

Approval of summary of Audit Reports

Approval of reporting relationships and supervisory structure for dual employment situations (Deborah D. Gausvik and Thomas E. Gausvik; Pamela K. Bouchard and Ronald Bouchard)

Approval of the purchase of 102 and 108 Cresap Road properties and Darden Drive (Clinch Valley College) property

Land Lease for Emergency Operations Center and Fire/Rescue Station

Attachment A - Bonds for Northern Virginia Education Center TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

Section 1.1

Definitions

2

Section 1.2

Rules of Construction; Use of Words and Phrases

10

ARTICLE II

AUTHORIZATION, FORM, EXECUTION, DELIVERY, REGISTRATION AND PAYMENT OF BONDS

Section 2.1

Authorization of Bonds

11

Section 2.2

Details of Bonds

11

Section 2.3

Form of Bonds

12

Section 2.4

Execution of Bonds

12

Section 2.5

Transfer of Bonds

13

Section 2.6

Exchange of Bonds

13

Section 2.7

Bond Register; Notices; Persons Treated as Owners

13

Section 2.8

Temporary Bonds

14

Section 2.9

Bonds Mutilated, Lost, Destroyed or Stolen

14

Section 2.10

Terms and Conditions for Issuance of Bonds

15

Section 2.11

Book-Entry Provisions

16

Section 2.12

Short Term Period

18

Section 2.13

Long Term Period

20

Section 2.14

Conversion Option

21

ARTICLE III

REDEMPTION AND PURCHASE OF BONDS

Section 3.1

Redemption of Bonds

22

Section 3.2

Redemption by the University

22

Section 3.3

Notice of Redemption

22

Section 3.4

Redemption Payments

24

Section 3.5

Partial Redemption of Bonds

24

Section 3.6

Purchase of Bonds in Lieu of Redemption

24

Section 3.7

Mandatory Tender of Bonds on Mandatory Tender Date

24

Section 3.8

Demand Purchase Option

25

Section 3.9

Funds for Purchase of Bonds

26

Section 3.10

Delivery of Purchased Bonds

26

Section 3.11

Delivery of Proceeds of Sale of Purchased Bonds

27

Page

Section 3.12

Duties of Paying Agent and Tender Agent with Respect to Purchase of Bonds

27

Section 3.13

Liquidity Facility

28

ARTICLE IV

CUSTODY AND APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS OF BONDS

Section 4.1

Custody and Application of Proceeds of Bonds

29

Section 4.2

Project Fund

29

Section 4.3

Costs of the Project

29

Section 4.4

Payments from Project Fund

30

Section 4.5

Disposition of Balance in Project Fund

31

ARTICLE V

REVENUES AND FUNDS

Section 5.1

Debt Service Fund

31

Section 5.2

Payments into the Debt Service Fund

32

Section 5.3

Use of Moneys in the Debt Service Fund

32

Section 5.4

Payments to Owners

32

Section 5.5

Pledge of Funds and Accounts

32

Section 5.6

Moneys Held in Trust

33

Section 5.7

Cancellation of Bonds Upon Payment

33

ARTICLE VI

GENERAL COVENANTS

Section 6.1

Payment of Principal and Interest; Pledge of General Revenues

33

Section 6.2

Rights of Owners Not to Be Impaired

34

Section 6.3

Further Instruments and Actions

34

Section 6.4

Accurate Records and Accounts

34

Section 6.5

Recognized Accounting Principles

35

Section 6.6

Tax Covenants

35

Section 6.7

Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations

36

ARTICLE VII

SPECIAL COVENANTS

Section 7.1

Insurance

36

Section 7.2

Continuing Disclosure

36

Section 7.3

Additional Indebtedness and Encumbrances

36

Section 7.4

Disposition of Assets

39

Section 7.5

Rate Covenant

40

Page

Section 7.6

Computation Assumptions

40

ARTICLE VIII

EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

Section 8.1

Events of Default

41

Section 8.2

Remedies

42

Section 8.3

Pro Rata Application of Funds

44

Section 8.4

Effect of Discontinuance of Proceedings

45

Section 8.5

Proceedings for Equal Benefit of All Owners

45

Section 8.6

No Remedy Exclusive

46

Section 8.7

No Delay or Omission Construed To Be a Waiver

46

ARTICLE IX

EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS BY OWNERS AND PROOF OF OWNERSHIP OF BONDS

Section 9.1

Execution of Instruments; Proof of Ownership

46

ARTICLE X

SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS

Section 10.1

Supplemental Resolutions

47

Section 10.2

Modification of Resolution with Consent of Owners

48

Section 10.3

Supplemental Resolutions Part of This Resolution

49

Section 10.4

Amendments of Series Resolution Prior to Delivery of Bonds

50

ARTICLE XI

DEFEASANCE

Section 11.1

Defeasance

50

ARTICLE XII

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Section 12.1

Effect of Covenants

52

Section 12.2

Successor Paying Agents or Registrars

52

Section 12.3

Manner of Giving Notice

52

Page

Section 12.4

Alternative Notice

53

Section 12.5

Effect of Partial Invalidity

53

Section 12.6

Governing Law

53

Section 12.7

Filings

53

Section 12.8

Approval, Execution and Delivery of Necessary and Appropriate Documents

53

Section 12.9

Bond Delivery

54

Section 12.10

Repeal of Inconsistent Provisions

54

Attachment A - Bonds for Northern Virginia Education Center TABLE OF CONTENTSPageARTICLE IDEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTIONSection 1.1Definitions2Section 1.2Rules of Construction; Use of Words and Phrases10ARTICLE IIAUTHORIZATION, FORM, EXECUTION, DELIVERY, REGISTRATION AND PAYMENT OF BONDSSection 2.1Authorization of Bonds11Section 2.2Details of Bonds11Section 2.3Form of Bonds12Section 2.4Execution of Bonds12Section 2.5Transfer of Bonds13Section 2.6Exchange of Bonds13Section 2.7Bond Register; Notices; Persons Treated as Owners13Section 2.8Temporary Bonds14Section 2.9Bonds Mutilated, Lost, Destroyed or Stolen14Section 2.10Terms and Conditions for Issuance of Bonds15Section 2.11Book-Entry Provisions16Section 2.12Short Term Period18Section 2.13Long Term Period20Section 2.14Conversion Option21ARTICLE IIIREDEMPTION AND PURCHASE OF BONDSSection 3.1Redemption of Bonds22Section 3.2Redemption by the University22Section 3.3Notice of Redemption22Section 3.4Redemption Payments24Section 3.5Partial Redemption of Bonds24Section 3.6Purchase of Bonds in Lieu of Redemption24Section 3.7Mandatory Tender of Bonds on Mandatory Tender Date24Section 3.8Demand Purchase Option25Section 3.9Funds for Purchase of Bonds26Section 3.10Delivery of Purchased Bonds26Section 3.11Delivery of Proceeds of Sale of Purchased Bonds27

PageSection 3.12Duties of Paying Agent and Tender Agent with Respect to Purchase of Bonds27Section 3.13Liquidity Facility28ARTICLE IVCUSTODY AND APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS OF BONDSSection 4.1Custody and Application of Proceeds of Bonds29Section 4.2Project Fund29Section 4.3Costs of the Project29Section 4.4Payments from Project Fund30Section 4.5Disposition of Balance in Project Fund31ARTICLE VREVENUES AND FUNDSSection 5.1Debt Service Fund31Section 5.2Payments into the Debt Service Fund32Section 5.3Use of Moneys in the Debt Service Fund32Section 5.4Payments to Owners32Section 5.5Pledge of Funds and Accounts32Section 5.6Moneys Held in Trust33Section 5.7Cancellation of Bonds Upon Payment33ARTICLE VIGENERAL COVENANTSSection 6.1Payment of Principal and Interest; Pledge of General Revenues33Section 6.2Rights of Owners Not to Be Impaired34Section 6.3Further Instruments and Actions34Section 6.4Accurate Records and Accounts34Section 6.5Recognized Accounting Principles35Section 6.6Tax Covenants35Section 6.7Qualified Tax-Exempt Obligations36ARTICLE VIISPECIAL COVENANTSSection 7.1Insurance36Section 7.2Continuing Disclosure36Section 7.3Additional Indebtedness and Encumbrances36Section 7.4Disposition of Assets39Section 7.5Rate Covenant40

PageSection 7.6Computation Assumptions40ARTICLE VIIIEVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIESSection 8.1Events of Default41Section 8.2Remedies42Section 8.3Pro Rata Application of Funds44Section 8.4Effect of Discontinuance of Proceedings45Section 8.5Proceedings for Equal Benefit of All Owners45Section 8.6No Remedy Exclusive46Section 8.7No Delay or Omission Construed To Be a Waiver46ARTICLE IXEXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS BY OWNERS AND PROOF OF OWNERSHIP OF BONDSSection 9.1Execution of Instruments; Proof of Ownership46ARTICLE XSUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONSSection 10.1Supplemental Resolutions47Section 10.2Modification of Resolution with Consent of Owners48Section 10.3Supplemental Resolutions Part of This Resolution49Section 10.4Amendments of Series Resolution Prior to Delivery of Bonds50ARTICLE XIDEFEASANCESection 11.1Defeasance50ARTICLE XIIMISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONSSection 12.1Effect of Covenants52Section 12.2Successor Paying Agents or Registrars52Section 12.3Manner of Giving Notice52

PageSection 12.4Alternative Notice53Section 12.5Effect of Partial Invalidity53Section 12.6Governing Law53Section 12.7Filings53Section 12.8Approval, Execution and Delivery of Necessary and Appropriate Documents53Section 12.9Bond Delivery54Section 12.10Repeal of Inconsistent Provisions54

Exhibit A -- Form of Bond

30-Aug-94 ATTACHMENT B UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER Current and Proposed Salary Ranges (Effective November 20, 1994)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95051

HCP-Anesthetist

0

87900

4%

0

91416

95052

HCP-Anesthetist Assistant Head

0

96100

4%

0

99944

95053

HCP-Anesthetist Head

0

96100

4%

0

99944

95055

HCP-Audiologist

25924

39581

8%

27998

42747

95194

HCP-Audiologist, Sr.

27131

41425

8%

29301

44739

95056

HCP-Audiologist Supervisor

28339

43270

8%

30606

46732

95086

HCP-Autopsy Pathologist's Assist.

31575

48210

4%

32838

50138

95109

HCP-Bone Marrow Transplant Tech

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95118

HCP-Bone Marrow Transplant Tech Sr.

27795

42438

4%

28907

44136

95115

HCP-Cardiac Cath Technician

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95116

HCP-Cardiac Cath Technician Sr.

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95119

HCP-Cast Technician

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95146

HCP-Certified Nurse Pract.(Inpt.)

34042

51976

4%

35404

54055

95157

HCP-Certified Nurse Pract. (Outpt.)

32703

49932

4%

34011

51929

95158

HCP-Certified Nurse Pract. Sr.

35750

54584

4%

37180

56767

95003

HCP-Perfusion Assistant

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95001

HCP-Clinical Perfusionist

0

85696

4%

0

89124

95002

HCP-Clinical Perfusionist Chief

0

91052

4%

0

94694

95061

HCP-Clinical Social Worker

21275

32483

4%

22126

33782

95062

HCP-Clinical Social Worker Sr.

25425

38821

4%

26442

40374

95063

HCP-Clinical Social Work Supv.

27795

42438

4%

28907

44136

95123

HCP-CV Monitor Technician

20859

31846

4%

21693

33120

95124

HCP-CV Monitor Technician Sr.

22800

34815

4%

23712

36208

95125

HCP-CV Monitor Technician Supv.

27250

41606

4%

28340

43270

95104

HCP-Cytotechnologist

26303

40163

4%

27355

41770

95105

HCP-Cytotechnologist Sr.

29723

45384

4%

30912

47199

95106

HCP-Cytotechnologist Supv.

32486

49604

4%

33785

51588

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95007

HCP-Dental Hygienist

23827

36383

4%

24780

37838

95017

HCP-Echocardiography Spec., Staff

23712

36208

4%

24660

37656

95018

HCP-Echocardiography Spec. Sr.

25924

39581

4%

26961

41164

95019

HCP-Echocardiography Spec., Chief

28339

43270

4%

29473

45001

95005

HCP-Echocard. Clinical Coord.

36000

54000

4%

37440

56160

95107

HCP-EEG Tech

17803

27181

4%

18515

28268

95108

HCP-EEG Tech Supv.

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95111

HCP-EKG Tech

14897

22745

4%

15493

23655

95112

HCP-EKG Supv.

17803

27181

4%

18515

28268

95054

HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech

17803

27181

4%

18515

28268

95079

HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech Sr.

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95102

HCP-Emerg Med Tech Spec

18713

28572

4%

19462

29715

95103

HCP-Emerg Med Tech Sr.

20457

31234

4%

21275

32483

95113

HCP-Epidemiology Tech Sr.

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95114

HCP-Epidemiology Tech Adv.

27795

42438

4%

28907

44136

95189

HCP-Histotechnologist

22362

34146

4%

23256

35512

95191

HCP-Histotechnologist Sr.

26725

40805

4%

27794

42437

95192

HCP-Histotechnologist Supv.

29214

44606

4%

30383

46390

95193

HCP-Histechnologist, Mgr.

31938

48764

4%

33216

50715

95065

HCP-Laboratory Specialist

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95066

HCP-Laboratory Specialist Sr.

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95067

HCP-Laboratory Specialist Advanced

27795

42438

4%

28907

44136

95068

HCP-Laboratory Specialist Mgr.

33215

50715

4%

34544

52744

95069

HCP-Lithotripter Technologist

25426

38820

4%

26443

40373

95071

HCP-Medical Technologist

23033

35170

4%

23954

36577

95072

HCP-Medical Technologist Sr.

27527

42029

4%

28628

43710

95073

HCP-Medical Technologist Supv.

30091

45946

4%

31295

47784

95074

HCP-Medical Technologist Mgr.

32896

50227

4%

34212

52236

95075

HCP-Medical Technologist Lab Admin

39312

60024

4%

40884

62425

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95172

HCP-Nutrition Specialist

24927

38059

4%

25924

39581

95173

HCP-Nutrition Specialist Sr.

29788

45482

4%

30980

47301

95174

HCP-Nutrition Program Dir.

32564

49721

4%

33867

51710

95011

HCP-Occupational Therapy Assist.

18858

28794

4%

19612

29946

95012

HCP-Occupational Therapist

29594

45187

4%

30778

46994

95013

HCP-Occupational Therapist Sr.

32353

49397

4%

33647

51373

95014

HCP-Occupational Therapy Supv.

35368

54001

4%

36783

56161

95016

HCP-Occupational Therapy Dir.

41456

63298

4%

43114

65830

95088

HCP-Operating Room Technician

16285

24864

4%

16936

25859

95165

HCP-Ophthalmic Assist. (Cert.)

19461

29716

4%

20239

30905

95048

HCP-Ophthalmic Tech Trainee

19461

29716

4%

20239

30905

95166

HCP-Ophthalmic Technician (Cert.)

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95049

HCP-Ophthalmic Technologist

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

95089

HCP-Orthoptist

19080

29133

4%

19843

30298

95121

HCP-Organ Procurement Coord.

23256

35511

8%

25116

38352

95122

HCP-Organ Procurement Coord. Sr.

27795

42438

8%

30019

45833

95117

HCP-Pain Management Med Tech

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95164

HCP-Patient Care Specialist

19462

29716

4%

20240

30905

95081

HCP-Pharmacist

35958

54902

4%

37396

57098

95082

HCP-Pharmacist Sr.

39309

60018

4%

40881

62419

95094

HCP-Pharmacy Clinical Specialist

42972

65610

4%

44691

68234

95083

Pharmacy Supv.

42972

65610

4%

44691

68234

95084

HCP-Pharmacy Assist. Dir.

46977

71725

4%

48856

74594

95021

HCP-Physical Therapist Assist.

19221

29348

4%

19990

30522

95022

HCP-Physical Therapist

30460

46507

4%

31678

48367

95023

HCP-Physical Therapist Sr.

33297

50842

4%

34629

52876

95024

HCP-Physical Therapy Supv.

36402

55577

4%

37858

57800

95025

HCP-Physical Therapy Assist Dir.

38652

59015

4%

40198

61376

95026

HCP-Physical Therapy Director

42254

64515

4%

43944

67096

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95087

HCP-Physician's Assist.

31575

48210

4%

32838

50138

95147

HCP-Practical Nurse

16285

24864

4%

16936

25859

95148

HCP-Practical Nurse Sr.

17803

27182

4%

18515

28269

95131

HCP-Administrative Practical Nurse

19458

29709

4%

20236

30897

95076

HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Technician

19843

30297

4%

20637

31509

95077

HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Assist.

22580

34476

4%

23483

35855

95078

HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Certified

29499

45041

4%

30679

46843

95064

HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Cert. Supv.

34711

52761

4%

36099

54871

95091

HCP-Psychologist

27250

41606

4%

28340

43270

95127

HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician

21693

33120

4%

22561

34445

95128

HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician Sr.

23712

36208

4%

24660

37656

95129

HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician Supv.

28339

43270

4%

29473

45001

95221

HCP-Non-Registered Rad Tech, Diag.

21275

32483

4%

22126

33782

95195

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - Diag

23598

36035

4%

24542

37476

95196

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - Diag

25798

39391

4%

26830

40967

95197

HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - Diag

30384

46391

4%

31599

48247

95198

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - Diag

33215

50715

4%

34544

52744

95185

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - CT

24403

37262

4%

25379

38752

95186

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - CT

26679

40734

4%

27746

42363

95187

HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - CT

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95188

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - CT

33538

51208

4%

34880

53256

95205

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - MRI

24403

37262

4%

25379

38752

95206

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - MRI

26679

40734

4%

27746

42363

95207

HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - MRI

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95208

HCP-Rad Tech Chief-MRI

33538

51208

4%

34880

53256

95215

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - NM

26049

39774

4%

27091

41365

95216

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - NM

28476

43479

4%

29615

45218

95217

HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - NM

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95219

HCP-Rad Tech, Supv. - Nucl. Card.

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95218

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - NM

33538

51208

4%

34880

53256

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95225

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - RT

30520

46597

4%

31741

48461

95226

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - RT

33363

50940

4%

34698

52978

95227

HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - RT

33579

51269

4%

34922

53320

95228

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - RT

36708

56045

4%

38176

58287

95235

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - SP

26049

39774

4%

27091

41365

95236

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - SP

28476

43479

4%

29615

45218

95237

HCP-Rad Tech. Assist. Chief - SP

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95238

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - SP

33538

51208

4%

34880

53256

95241

HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - US

26049

39774

4%

27091

41365

95242

HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - US

28476

43479

4%

29615

45218

95243

HCP-Rad Tech. Assist. Chief - US

30679

46842

4%

31906

48716

95245

HCP-Rad Tech Chief - US

33538

51208

4%

34880

53256

95181

HCP-Radiology Manager

38100

58172

4%

39624

60499

95231

HCP-Radiologic Dosimetrist

33363

50940

4%

34698

52978

95183

HCP-Radiology Physics Specialist Sr.

26679

40734

4%

27746

42363

95244

HCP-Radiology School Director - RT

32192

49153

4%

33480

51119

95247

HCP-Radiology School Director

30384

46391

4%

31599

48247

95246

HCP-Radiology Educ. Assist. Dir.

30384

46391

4%

31599

48247

95249

HCP-Radiology Education Director

33215

50715

4%

34544

52744

95032

HCP-Recreational Therapist

19843

30297

7%

21232

32418

95033

HCP-Recreational Therapist Sr.

23712

36208

4%

24660

37656

95034

HCP-Recreation Therapy Supv.

25924

39581

4%

26961

41164

95095

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 1

26594

40604

4%

27658

42228

95096

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 2

29072

44388

4%

30235

46164

95097

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 3

31781

48524

4%

33052

50465

95098

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 4

37259

56887

4%

38749

59162

95099

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 5

40723

62178

4%

42352

64665

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95201

HCP-R.N. Clinician 1 - Salaried

29252

44665

4%

30422

46452

95202

HCP-R.N. Clinician 2 - Salaried

31979

48828

4%

33258

50781

95203

HCP-R.N. Clinician 3 - Salaried

34959

53377

4%

36357

55512

95141

HCP-Registered Nurse - Inpt.

26852

40998

4%

27926

42638

95142

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Inpt.

29354

44819

4%

30528

46612

95143

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Inpt.

32089

48996

4%

33373

50956

95144

HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Inpt.

34713

53001

4%

36102

55121

95145

HCP-Reg. Nurse Mgr. - Inpt.

42729

65238

4%

44438

67848

95149

HCP-UVA Pool Reg. Nurse-Hrly. Rate

18.00

22.00

4%

18.72

22.88

95156

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinical Specialist

39694

60606

4%

41282

63030

95151

HCP-Registered Nurse - Outpt.

24875

37979

4%

25870

39498

95152

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Outpt.

27192

41518

4%

28280

43179

95153

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Outpt.

29726

45388

4%

30915

47204

95154

HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Outpt.

32497

49617

4%

33797

51602

95155

HCP-Reg. Nurse Mgr. - Outpt.

38835

59294

4%

40388

61666

95159

HCP-Reg. Nurse - Staff Educ.

26154

39931

4%

27200

41528

95161

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Staff Educ.

28591

43653

4%

29735

45399

95162

HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Staff Educ.

31254

47721

4%

32504

49630

95163

HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Staff Educ.

34167

52167

4%

35534

54254

95169

HCP-Registered Nurse, Transplant

31279

47763

4%

32530

49674

95132

HCP-Renal Dialysis Technician

20457

31234

4%

21275

32483

95133

HCP-Renal Dialysis Technician Sr.

22362

34146

4%

23256

35512

95134

HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech. Supv.

26725

40806

4%

27794

42438

95177

HCP-Speech Pathologist

25924

39581

8%

27998

42747

95178

HCP-Speech Pathologist, Sr.

27131

41425

8%

29301

44739

95179

HCP-Speech Pathologist, Supv.

28339

43270

8%

30606

46732

CLASS CODE

CLASS TITLE

Current Range Minimum Maximum

Proposed Range Increase

New Range Minimum Maximum

95041

HCP-Staff Tech.-Respiratory Care Svcs.

19039

29070

4%

19801

30233

95042

HCP-Staff Ther.-Respiratory Care Svcs.

24286

37083

4%

25257

38566

95043

HCP-Ther. Sr.-Respiratory Care Svcs.

26550

40538

4%

27612

42160

95044

HCP-Supervisor-Respiratory Care Svcs.

29024

44315

4%

30185

46088

95045

HCP-Assist. Dir., Respiratory Care Svcs.

31728

48445

4%

32997

50383

95136

HCP-Venipuncture Technician

16285

24864

4%

16936

25859

95138

HCP-Venipuncture Technician Supv.

21276

32482

4%

22127

33781

95139

HCP-Venipuncture Manager.

23256

35511

4%

24186

36931

30-Aug-94 ATTACHMENT B UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER Current and Proposed Salary Ranges (Effective November 20, 1994)CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95051HCP-Anesthetist0879004%09141695052HCP-Anesthetist Assistant Head0961004%09994495053HCP-Anesthetist Head0961004%09994495055HCP-Audiologist25924395818%279984274795194HCP-Audiologist, Sr.27131414258%293014473995056HCP-Audiologist Supervisor28339432708%306064673295086HCP-Autopsy Pathologist's Assist.31575482104%328385013895109HCP-Bone Marrow Transplant Tech23256355114%241863693195118HCP-Bone Marrow Transplant Tech Sr.27795424384%289074413695115HCP-Cardiac Cath Technician21276324824%221273378195116HCP-Cardiac Cath Technician Sr.23256355114%241863693195119HCP-Cast Technician21276324824%221273378195146HCP-Certified Nurse Pract.(Inpt.)34042519764%354045405595157HCP-Certified Nurse Pract. (Outpt.)32703499324%340115192995158HCP-Certified Nurse Pract. Sr.35750545844%371805676795003HCP-Perfusion Assistant23256355114%241863693195001HCP-Clinical Perfusionist0856964%08912495002HCP-Clinical Perfusionist Chief0910524%09469495061HCP-Clinical Social Worker21275324834%221263378295062HCP-Clinical Social Worker Sr.25425388214%264424037495063HCP-Clinical Social Work Supv.27795424384%289074413695123HCP-CV Monitor Technician20859318464%216933312095124HCP-CV Monitor Technician Sr.22800348154%237123620895125HCP-CV Monitor Technician Supv.27250416064%283404327095104HCP-Cytotechnologist26303401634%273554177095105HCP-Cytotechnologist Sr.29723453844%309124719995106HCP-Cytotechnologist Supv.32486496044%3378551588

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95007HCP-Dental Hygienist23827363834%247803783895017HCP-Echocardiography Spec., Staff23712362084%246603765695018HCP-Echocardiography Spec. Sr.25924395814%269614116495019HCP-Echocardiography Spec., Chief28339432704%294734500195005HCP-Echocard. Clinical Coord.36000540004%374405616095107HCP-EEG Tech17803271814%185152826895108HCP-EEG Tech Supv.21276324824%221273378195111HCP-EKG Tech14897227454%154932365595112HCP-EKG Supv.17803271814%185152826895054HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech17803271814%185152826895079HCP-Electrocard Stress Test Tech Sr.23256355114%241863693195102HCP-Emerg Med Tech Spec18713285724%194622971595103HCP-Emerg Med Tech Sr.20457312344%212753248395113HCP-Epidemiology Tech Sr.23256355114%241863693195114HCP-Epidemiology Tech Adv.27795424384%289074413695189HCP-Histotechnologist22362341464%232563551295191HCP-Histotechnologist Sr.26725408054%277944243795192HCP-Histotechnologist Supv.29214446064%303834639095193HCP-Histechnologist, Mgr.31938487644%332165071595065HCP-Laboratory Specialist21276324824%221273378195066HCP-Laboratory Specialist Sr.23256355114%241863693195067HCP-Laboratory Specialist Advanced27795424384%289074413695068HCP-Laboratory Specialist Mgr.33215507154%345445274495069HCP-Lithotripter Technologist25426388204%264434037395071HCP-Medical Technologist23033351704%239543657795072HCP-Medical Technologist Sr.27527420294%286284371095073HCP-Medical Technologist Supv.30091459464%312954778495074HCP-Medical Technologist Mgr.32896502274%342125223695075HCP-Medical Technologist Lab Admin39312600244%4088462425

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95172HCP-Nutrition Specialist24927380594%259243958195173HCP-Nutrition Specialist Sr.29788454824%309804730195174HCP-Nutrition Program Dir.32564497214%338675171095011HCP-Occupational Therapy Assist.18858287944%196122994695012HCP-Occupational Therapist29594451874%307784699495013HCP-Occupational Therapist Sr.32353493974%336475137395014HCP-Occupational Therapy Supv.35368540014%367835616195016HCP-Occupational Therapy Dir.41456632984%431146583095088HCP-Operating Room Technician16285248644%169362585995165HCP-Ophthalmic Assist. (Cert.)19461297164%202393090595048HCP-Ophthalmic Tech Trainee19461297164%202393090595166HCP-Ophthalmic Technician (Cert.)21276324824%221273378195049HCP-Ophthalmic Technologist23256355114%241863693195089HCP-Orthoptist19080291334%198433029895121HCP-Organ Procurement Coord.23256355118%251163835295122HCP-Organ Procurement Coord. Sr.27795424388%300194583395117HCP-Pain Management Med Tech21276324824%221273378195164HCP-Patient Care Specialist19462297164%202403090595081HCP-Pharmacist35958549024%373965709895082HCP-Pharmacist Sr.39309600184%408816241995094HCP-Pharmacy Clinical Specialist42972656104%446916823495083Pharmacy Supv.42972656104%446916823495084HCP-Pharmacy Assist. Dir.46977717254%488567459495021HCP-Physical Therapist Assist.19221293484%199903052295022HCP-Physical Therapist30460465074%316784836795023HCP-Physical Therapist Sr.33297508424%346295287695024HCP-Physical Therapy Supv.36402555774%378585780095025HCP-Physical Therapy Assist Dir.38652590154%401986137695026HCP-Physical Therapy Director42254645154%4394467096

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95087HCP-Physician's Assist.31575482104%328385013895147HCP-Practical Nurse16285248644%169362585995148HCP-Practical Nurse Sr.17803271824%185152826995131HCP-Administrative Practical Nurse19458297094%202363089795076HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Technician19843302974%206373150995077HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Assist.22580344764%234833585595078HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Certified29499450414%306794684395064HCP-Prosthetic/Orthotic Cert. Supv.34711527614%360995487195091HCP-Psychologist27250416064%283404327095127HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician21693331204%225613444595128HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician Sr.23712362084%246603765695129HCP-Pulmonary Lab Technician Supv.28339432704%294734500195221HCP-Non-Registered Rad Tech, Diag.21275324834%221263378295195HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - Diag23598360354%245423747695196HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - Diag25798393914%268304096795197HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - Diag30384463914%315994824795198HCP-Rad Tech Chief - Diag33215507154%345445274495185HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - CT24403372624%253793875295186HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - CT26679407344%277464236395187HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - CT30679468424%319064871695188HCP-Rad Tech Chief - CT33538512084%348805325695205HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - MRI24403372624%253793875295206HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - MRI26679407344%277464236395207HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - MRI30679468424%319064871695208HCP-Rad Tech Chief-MRI33538512084%348805325695215HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - NM26049397744%270914136595216HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - NM28476434794%296154521895217HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - NM30679468424%319064871695219HCP-Rad Tech, Supv. - Nucl. Card.30679468424%319064871695218HCP-Rad Tech Chief - NM33538512084%3488053256

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95225HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - RT30520465974%317414846195226HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - RT33363509404%346985297895227HCP-Rad Tech Assist. Chief - RT33579512694%349225332095228HCP-Rad Tech Chief - RT36708560454%381765828795235HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - SP26049397744%270914136595236HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - SP28476434794%296154521895237HCP-Rad Tech. Assist. Chief - SP30679468424%319064871695238HCP-Rad Tech Chief - SP33538512084%348805325695241HCP-Rad Tech, Staff - US26049397744%270914136595242HCP-Rad Tech Sr. - US28476434794%296154521895243HCP-Rad Tech. Assist. Chief - US30679468424%319064871695245HCP-Rad Tech Chief - US33538512084%348805325695181HCP-Radiology Manager38100581724%396246049995231HCP-Radiologic Dosimetrist33363509404%346985297895183HCP-Radiology Physics Specialist Sr.26679407344%277464236395244HCP-Radiology School Director - RT32192491534%334805111995247HCP-Radiology School Director30384463914%315994824795246HCP-Radiology Educ. Assist. Dir.30384463914%315994824795249HCP-Radiology Education Director33215507154%345445274495032HCP-Recreational Therapist19843302977%212323241895033HCP-Recreational Therapist Sr.23712362084%246603765695034HCP-Recreation Therapy Supv.25924395814%269614116495095HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 126594406044%276584222895096HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 229072443884%302354616495097HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 331781485244%330525046595098HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 437259568874%387495916295099HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinician 540723621784%4235264665

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95201HCP-R.N. Clinician 1 - Salaried29252446654%304224645295202HCP-R.N. Clinician 2 - Salaried31979488284%332585078195203HCP-R.N. Clinician 3 - Salaried34959533774%363575551295141HCP-Registered Nurse - Inpt.26852409984%279264263895142HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Inpt.29354448194%305284661295143HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Inpt.32089489964%333735095695144HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Inpt.34713530014%361025512195145HCP-Reg. Nurse Mgr. - Inpt.42729652384%444386784895149HCP-UVA Pool Reg. Nurse-Hrly. Rate18.0022.004%18.7222.8895156HCP-Reg. Nurse Clinical Specialist39694606064%412826303095151HCP-Registered Nurse - Outpt.24875379794%258703949895152HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Outpt.27192415184%282804317995153HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Outpt.29726453884%309154720495154HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Outpt.32497496174%337975160295155HCP-Reg. Nurse Mgr. - Outpt.38835592944%403886166695159HCP-Reg. Nurse - Staff Educ.26154399314%272004152895161HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. A - Staff Educ.28591436534%297354539995162HCP-Reg. Nurse Clin. B - Staff Educ.31254477214%325044963095163HCP-Reg. Nurse Coord. - Staff Educ.34167521674%355345425495169HCP-Registered Nurse, Transplant31279477634%325304967495132HCP-Renal Dialysis Technician20457312344%212753248395133HCP-Renal Dialysis Technician Sr.22362341464%232563551295134HCP-Renal Dialysis Tech. Supv.26725408064%277944243895177HCP-Speech Pathologist25924395818%279984274795178HCP-Speech Pathologist, Sr.27131414258%293014473995179HCP-Speech Pathologist, Supv.28339432708%3060646732

CLASS CODECLASS TITLECurrent Range Minimum MaximumProposed Range IncreaseNew Range Minimum Maximum95041HCP-Staff Tech.-Respiratory Care Svcs.19039290704%198013023395042HCP-Staff Ther.-Respiratory Care Svcs.24286370834%252573856695043HCP-Ther. Sr.-Respiratory Care Svcs.26550405384%276124216095044HCP-Supervisor-Respiratory Care Svcs.29024443154%301854608895045HCP-Assist. Dir., Respiratory Care Svcs.31728484454%329975038395136HCP-Venipuncture Technician16285248644%169362585995138HCP-Venipuncture Technician Supv.21276324824%221273378195139HCP-Venipuncture Manager.23256355114%2418636931

ATTACHMENT C RESOLUTION ON APPRECIATION OF SERVICE BY FOUR FORMER MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS Sponsored by Reps. DeNoia, Brown, and Gray April 19, 1994
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whereas, the Student Council at the University of Virginia gratefully appreciates the service and dedication of Dr. Thomas Hulvey Leigh B. Middleditch Freddie W. Nicholas and S. Buford Scott during the years of their service to the Board of Visitors and the University of Virginia;

Whereas, Student Council as representatives of the student body and on behalf of the larger University community, recognizes the continued efforts of these former Board members to carry the torch for Mr. Jefferson's University;

Whereas, Student Council acknowledges that their accomplishments, achievements, and contributions indelibly shaped the University's future, and to that end, Student Council expresses its gratitude to these former members;

Whereas, Student Council acknowledges that Mr. Buford Scott's decision to place the interests of the University community as a whole above his personal willingness to serve embodies Mr. Jefferson's ideas of selflessness and self-governance. Let his actions be a beacon for future challenges that the University and University community face.

Be it therefore resolved, that these four individuals, Dr. Thomas Hulvey, Leigh Middleditch, Freddie Nicholas, and S. Buford Scott, be commended for their dedication and service.
