---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1995'
month: 2
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1995) February 4, 1995
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 4, 1995

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS FEBRUARY 4-5, 1995
---------------------------------------------------------------

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections

Election of Chairholders

Changes of Title of Chairholders

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

Retirement of Chairholders

Promotions

Changes of Title

Special Salary Actions

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-Appointments

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

Changes in Titles

Change in Promotion

Re-Election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Acting Vice President for Health Sciences

Clinch Valley College - Special Salary Action

Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors

Establishment of the Julian Bishko Professorship in History

Establishment of the Louis T. Rader Professorship in Electrical Engineering

Announcement of Fundraising Effort to Establish the N. Thomas Connally Eminent Scholars Professorship in Clinical Excellence

Re-Election of Miller Center Council Members

Approval of the Board of Visitors Representative to the Governing Board of the Friends of Blandy Farm Foundation

Appointment of Member to the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council

Approval of Clinch Valley College Admissions Standards

Approval to Establish a Joint Venture Corporation Between the University of Virginia Medical Center and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

Approval of Construction Easement for CJS, LLC Across University of Virginia Property on the West Side of Millmont Street

Approval of Sale of University Property Located in Appomattox

Approval to Provide Employer-Paid Health Insurance to Part-Time, Salaried Health Care Professionals

Approval of Increase in Summer Session Rates for 1995-96

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 1995-96 for the Academic Division

Declaration of Milton Airport as Surplus Property

Approval of Summary of Audit Reports

Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situations

Gifts, Grants and Contracts

Approval to Enter into a Partnership Relationship with HEALTHSOUTH Corporation for the Provision of Medical Rehabilitation Services

Resolution Regarding the Honor Committee

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 4, 1995
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:55 p.m., on Friday, February 3, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 2:15 p.m., on Saturday, February 4, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, L. Jay Lemons and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session, at 11:00 a.m., on Sunday, February 5, 1995, in the President's Conference Room of Madison Hall with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally and C. Wilson McNeely, III. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, William W. Harmon, Robert T. Canevari, Earl Dudley, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of November 11-12, 1994, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Law School, the Medical School, the Pharmacy - Nursing Responsibilities, the Hospital Storeroom, Information Technology and Communications - Data Security, and the Anthropology Petty Cash, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing potential contractual transactions and investment initiatives involving the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (6) and (8) of The Code of Virginia.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

The full Board recessed at 1:00 p.m., on Friday, February 3, 1995; following Committee meetings and an Executive Session of the full Board, the meeting of the full Board was resumed in Open Session at 2:15 p.m., on Saturday, February 4, 1995. The full Board recessed at 2:45 p.m., and the meeting was resumed in Executive Session as a meeting of the Executive Committee at 11:00 a.m., on Sunday, February 5, 1995. The Executive Committee resumed in Open Session at 12:30 p.m., and adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS
-------------------------

Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead abstained from voting.

Elections
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Ms. Patricia P. Biller as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. Matthew J. Combs as Assistant Professor of Research in Radiology, for the period November 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Dr. J. Alexander Crane as Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for two years, effective July 25, 1994.Dr. Joyce B. Geilker as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Keith K. Hunt, Jr. as Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Raymond E. Keller as Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1995.Dr. Steven M. Koenig as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1994.Dr. Charles W. Miller as Professor of Clinical Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective September 19, 1994.Ms. Suzanne M. Moenter as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective November 1, 1994.Dr. Geoffrey Nixon Morris as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1994.Dr. Suzanne M. Pitts as Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective July 16, 1994.Dr. Mark K. Robbins as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective September 15, 1994.Dr. Mark E. Shaffrey as Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Timothy Stenson as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for the period January 1, 1995 through May 31, 1998.Dr. Peter A. Stoddart as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1994.Dr. Charles T. Thornsvard as Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Mary E. Van Verst as Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for the period November 7, 1994 through June 30, 1995.Mr. David J. Verardo as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 1, 1994.Ms. Mary Kate Worden as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective September 1, 1994.

Actions Relating to Chairholders
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Gerald P. Fogarty as William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Fogarty will continue as Professor of History, without term.Ms. Andrea Leers as Harry S. Shure Professor of Architecture, for the period March 20, 1995 through May 12, 1995.(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr. from Elson Professor of Architecture to Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1994.(c) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Fredrick has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1963.

Promotions
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Dr. Thomas A. Massaro from Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1994.Ms. Lisa K. Rollins from Lecturer in Medical Education, General Faculty to Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for two years, effective December 1, 1994.

Changes of Title
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made:Mr. Suresh Agarwal from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Stuart S. Berr from Research Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Mark A. Brown from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Richard A. Christoph from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Susan A. Dilks from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Charles G. Durbin, Jr. from Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Mr. Patrick C. Fowler from Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. William R. Hobbs from Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Stuart M. Lowson from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective June 1, 1994.Ms. Barbara J. Mann from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Robert S. Michel from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Victoria F. Norwood from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. John P. Pelegano from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. William T. Ross, Jr. from Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Worthington G. Schenk, III from Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Theresa Schlager from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Siva Thiagarajah from Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Peter E. Waldron from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through August 31, 1996.Mr. William F. Whelan from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through December 31, 1994.Dr. Douglas F. Willson from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through September 30, 1994.Dr. Barbara B. Wilson from Associate Professor of Dermatology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.Dr. Horacio F. Zaglul from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through March 31, 1995.

Resignations
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Russell G. Foster, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position.Ms. Elizabeth B. Lowe, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1995, for personal reasons.Dr. Michael A. Okin, Associate Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, effective November 30, 1994, to accept another position.Dr. Robert A. Schwab, Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, effective June 10, 1994, to accept another position.

Retirements
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. Robert E. Berry, Professor of Surgery, effective September 30, 1994. Dr. Berry has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1971.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. Bice has been a member of the faculty since September 16, 1948.Mr. Kenneth Chastain, Professor of Spanish, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Chastain has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1973.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Hauser has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1960.Mr. Charles R. Kaut, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Kaut has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1961.Mr. Shiv Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Kumar has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.Mr. William Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Little has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. Robert Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, effective December 31, 1995. Mr. Martin has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1959.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Paige has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Stoudt has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, effective December 1, 1994. Mr. Volk has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1951.Mr. Theodore R.F. Wright, Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Wright has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.Mr. Klaus O.H. Ziock, Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Ziock has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

Appointments
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. James A. Knight as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences Development, for three years, effective December 1, 1994.

Re-appointments
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Michael J. Halseth, as Executive Director, Medical Center, for the period February 1, 1995 through June 30, 2000.Mr. Philip M. Nowlen, as Dean, Division of Continuing Education, for four years, effective January 1, 1995.

Election of Professors Emeriti
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Robert E. Berry, Professor of Surgery, effective September 30, 1994.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1995.Mr. Kenneth Chastain, Professor of Spanish, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Charles R. Kaut, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. William Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Robert Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, effective January 1, 1995.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, effective December 1, 1994.Mr. Theodore R.F. Wright, Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Klaus O.H. Ziock, Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1995.

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1990.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995.Mr. Shiv Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1995.

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. JAMES R. BROOKEMAN
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. James R. Brookeman from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. James R. Brookeman from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Research in Radiology, for the period July 16, 1994 through June 30, 1995.

CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. CHANG S. HAHN
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective April 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. PAUL L. HUNDLEY
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Clinical Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

Re-election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Acting Vice President for Health Sciences
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. Robert W. Cantrell be and he is hereby re-elected as Acting Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, for one year, effective January 1, 1995.

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

On motion of Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin, Acting Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Matthew W. Cooper as the non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for one year, effective April 9, 1995.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JULIAN BISHKO PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Julian Bishko Professorship in History. The Board is grateful to an anonymous donor who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LOUIS T. RADER PROFESSORSHIP IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Louis T. Rader Professorship in Electrical Engineering. The Board is grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Bokan, Mr. Raymond J. Noorda, and various other donors who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF FUNDRAISING EFFORT TO ESTABLISH THE N. THOMAS CONNALLY EMINENT SCHOLARS PROFESSORSHIP IN CLINICAL EXCELLENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that patients and friends of Dr. N. Thomas Connally have begun to raise funds effort to establish a University of Virginia medical professorship in his honor. To be known as the N. Thomas Connally Eminent Scholars Professorship of Clinical Excellence, this Chair will recognize the important connection between the primary care physician and the tertiary care specialist. The chairholder will be a clinician of national reputation who has an exceptional record of clinical achievement.

Drs. Alam and Mimi Miran of Leesburg, Virginia, are leading the fundraising effort. Dr. Alam Miran has been Dr. Connally's patient.

The President noted that no Board action on this Chair was necessary at the moment, but he wanted Board members to know of the proposed Chair and to join in celebrating this extraordinary recognition of Dr. Connally.

The Rector commented that he had worked with Dr. Connally for five years, and that the Chair will be a wonderful testimony to Dr. Connally's love for the University and the Health Sciences Center.

RE-ELECTION OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBERS
--------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted: (a) RESOLVED that The Honorable Griffin B. Bell is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for five years, effective February 3, 1995.(b) RESOLVED that The Honorable Warren E. Burger is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for three years, effective February 3, 1995.

APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVE TO THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE FRIENDS OF BLANDY FARM FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. David C. Benjamin be approved as the representative of the Board of Visitors to the governing board of the Friends of Blandy Farm Foundation.

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS a member of the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council has resigned, leaving an unexpired term; andWHEREAS the Nominating Committee of the Council is responsible for nominating an individual to fill this post; andWHEREAS the Nominating Committee has recommended Mr. Bryan L. Wolcott to serve as a member; andWHEREAS Mr. Wolcott, Vice President and General Manager of Equitable Resources Exploration, has expressed a desire to serve the College;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Mr. Bryan L. Wolcott is hereby appointed to the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council for a term ending June 30, 1997.

APPROVAL OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADMISSIONS STANDARDS
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires that general admissions policies must be established by the governing board of an institution; andWHEREAS the University of Virginia Board of Visitors serves as the governing board of Clinch Valley College; andWHEREAS Clinch Valley College's admissions policy is that the College seeks to admit students whose intellectual ability, preparation, and seriousness of purpose indicate potential for success in the programs of study offered;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the admissions standards of Clinch Valley College.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A JOINT VENTURE CORPORATION BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HEALTH SERVICES FOUNDATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation have reviewed issues associated with remaining competitive in the changing health care market; andWHEREAS the recommendation of the management of these two organizations is that it would be desirable to form partnerships among the two organizations, other providers and businesses, and to allow the institution to respond quickly to marketplace opportunities; andWHEREAS the 1994 Commonwealth of Virginia legislation pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center (Section 23-77.3 of The Code of Virginia) grants authority to create joint ventures; andWHEREAS it is proposed that the University and the Foundation jointly form a new corporation to conduct activities that are externally oriented and require partnerships between the Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation and potentially other partners;RESOLVED that the University participate with the Health Services Foundation in establishing a non-profit corporation subject to the University's Policy on University-related Foundations and any other provisions that the President deems appropriate to monitor the activities of the corporation, to offer new services and enter into partnerships with other organizations to provide health care services in the region;RESOLVED FURTHER that the University invest $4,000,000, from the Medical Center to capitalize the corporation;RESOLVED FURTHER that The Executive Committee and the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors be authorized to approve articles of incorporation, by-laws and any additional items associated with creation of the corporation, including composition of the corporation's board of directors.

APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT FOR CJS, LLC ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY ON THE WEST SIDE OF MILLMONT STREET
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead abstained from voting).

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated February 3, 1995, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and CJS, LLC, a local developer, which grants temporary access to the property to 1) place an agreed amount of fill dirt in an agreed upon location and configuration, and 2) to regrade the area joint property line according to agreed upon plans to address storm water management issues and 3) place a drainage pipe on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, located in the North Grounds precinct adjacent to the Department of Parking and Transportation Services building and lot, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF SALE OF UNIVERSITY PROPERTY LOCATED IN APPOMATTOX
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Section 23-77.1 of The Code of Virginia gives The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authority to sell and convey real estate to which the University has acquired title by gift; andWHEREAS The Rector and Visitors of the University acquired by Will a residential property in Appomattox, Virginia, consisting of a house and approximately four acres for the benefit of the Lupus Clinic in the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center;RESOLVED that the property be declared surplus to the needs of the University and that it be sold; andRESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said declaration and deed of sale with the understanding that the proceeds from the sale will remain an asset of The Rector and Visitors of the University for the benefit of the Lupus Clinic.

APPROVAL TO PROVIDE EMPLOYER-PAID HEALTH INSURANCE TO PART-TIME, SALARIED HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that access to employer-paid health insurance for part-time (at least 20 hours per week), salaried Health Care Professionals be approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after March 1, 1995.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION RATES FOR 1995-96
--------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1994

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1995

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$128.00

$4.00

3.1%

$132.00

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

$410.00

$24.00

5.9%

$434.00

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$384.00

$12.00

3.1%

$396.00

Appellate Judges Program

$1,152.00

$36.00

3.1%

$1,188.00

Non-Resident Fee

$55.00

$2.00

3.6%

$57.00

COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Newcomb Hall

$ 9.00

$1.00

11.1%

$10.00

Student Health

$45.00

$1.00

2.2%

$46.00

Transportation

$10.00

$0.00

0.0%

$10.00

TOTAL COMP. FEES

$64.00

$2.00

3.1%

$66.00

OTHER FEES

Late Payment Fee

$25.00

$0.00

0.0%

$25.00

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$35.00

$0.00

0.0%

$35.00

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.

Lab Use Fee

$69.00

$2.00

2.82%

$71.00

Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week)

Senior Investigators

$200.00

$6.00

2.91%

$206.00

Co-Investigators

$50.00

$2.00

3.85%

$52.00

Graduate Students

$50.00

$2.00

3.85%

$52.00

MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each person 17 years of age & older

$390.00

$0.00

0.00%

$390.00

Each Person 10-16 years of age

$250.00

$0.00

0.00%

$250.00

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

$155.00

$0.00

0.00%

$155.00

Actual 1994

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1995

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$96.00

$0.00

0.00%

$96.00

Laing Singles

$96.00

$0.00

0.00%

$96.00

Laing Center

$135.00

$0.00

0.00%

$135.00

North

$135.00

$0.00

0.00%

$135.00

South

$135.00

$0.00

0.00%

$135.00

Northwest

$135.00

$0.00

0.00%

$135.00

West

$135.00

$0.00

0.00%

$135.00

Cottages

Hentz-Mohr

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

With kitchen

$225.00

$0.00

0.00%

$225.00

Clayton

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Catesby

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Gattinger

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Michaux

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$225.00

$0.00

0.00%

$225.00

Burns

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

With Kitchen

$225.00

$0.00

0.00%

$225.00

Washington

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Banister

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

LeConte

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Hariot

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Schoew

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Maphis

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Holbrook

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Mitchell

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

Rafinesque

$180.00

$0.00

0.00%

$180.00

New Dorm

Singles

$103.00

$0.00

0.00%

$103.00

Apartments (two rooms)

$155.00

$0.00

0.00%

$155.00

Second Bedroom (Family)

$50.00

$0.00

0.00%

$50.00

OFF-SEASON RATES

Singles (Nightly)

$8.00

$0.00

0.00%

$8.00

Singles (Weekly)

$40.00

$0.00

0.00%

$40.00

Singles (Monthly)

$160.00

$0.00

0.00%

$160.00

Family (Nightly)

$12.00

$0.00

0.00%

$12.00

Family (Weekly)

$60.00

$0.00

0.00%

$60.00

Family (Monthly)

$240.00

$0.00

0.00%

$240.00

SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)

Hereford College

Per Student, per week, double

$48.00

$0.00

$0.00

$48.00

Per Student, per week, single

$60.00

$0.00

$0.00

$60.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1995: Actual 1994Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1995TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$128.00$4.003.1%$132.00Non-Virginian (per semester hour)$410.00$24.005.9%$434.00Thesis/Dissertation Research$384.00$12.003.1%$396.00Appellate Judges Program$1,152.00$36.003.1%$1,188.00Non-Resident Fee$55.00$2.003.6%$57.00COMPREHENSIVE FEENewcomb Hall$ 9.00$1.0011.1%$10.00Student Health$45.00$1.002.2%$46.00Transportation$10.00$0.000.0%$10.00TOTAL COMP. FEES$64.00$2.003.1%$66.00OTHER FEESLate Payment Fee$25.00$0.000.0%$25.00Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee$35.00$0.000.0%$35.00The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.Lab Use Fee$69.00$2.002.82%$71.00Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week)Senior Investigators$200.00$6.002.91%$206.00Co-Investigators$50.00$2.003.85%$52.00Graduate Students$50.00$2.003.85%$52.00MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each person 17 years of age & older$390.00$0.000.00%$390.00Each Person 10-16 years of age$250.00$0.000.00%$250.00Each Person 9 years of age & younger$155.00$0.000.00%$155.00 Actual 1994Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1995MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$96.00$0.000.00%$96.00Laing Singles$96.00$0.000.00%$96.00Laing Center$135.00$0.000.00%$135.00North$135.00$0.000.00%$135.00South$135.00$0.000.00%$135.00Northwest$135.00$0.000.00%$135.00West$135.00$0.000.00%$135.00CottagesHentz-Mohr$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00With kitchen$225.00$0.000.00%$225.00Clayton$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Catesby$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Gattinger$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Michaux$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00With Kitchen$225.00$0.000.00%$225.00Burns$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00With Kitchen$225.00$0.000.00%$225.00Washington$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Banister$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00LeConte$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Hariot$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Schoew$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Maphis$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Holbrook$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Mitchell$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00Rafinesque$180.00$0.000.00%$180.00New DormSingles$103.00$0.000.00%$103.00Apartments (two rooms)$155.00$0.000.00%$155.00Second Bedroom (Family)$50.00$0.000.00%$50.00OFF-SEASON RATESSingles (Nightly)$8.00$0.000.00%$8.00Singles (Weekly)$40.00$0.000.00%$40.00Singles (Monthly)$160.00$0.000.00%$160.00Family (Nightly)$12.00$0.000.00%$12.00Family (Weekly)$60.00$0.000.00%$60.00Family (Monthly)$240.00$0.000.00%$240.00SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)Hereford CollegePer Student, per week, double$48.00$0.00$0.00$48.00Per Student, per week, single$60.00$0.00$0.00$60.00

OTHER: Conference housing and meal rates, Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation rates, International Center room rates, and other miscellaneous fees are to be approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1995-96 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1994-95 Per Student Per Session

Room Amount of Increase

Rent Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Proposed 1995-96 Per Student Per Session

McCormick Road

Double Room

$1,732

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,732

Small Double Room

$1,572

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,572

Single

$1,832

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,832

Per Day Rate

$8

$0

0.00%

$0

$8

Lawn

Small Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,158

Regular Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,158

Small Single (no fireplace)

$1,880

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,104

Range

Regular Single

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,158

Crackerbox

Single Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,158

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$1,694

$0

0.00%

$122

$1,816

Single Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,158

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$1,934

$0

0.00%

$122

$2,056

Single Room

$2,096

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,320

Single Room (Private Bath)

$2,200

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,424

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$2,056

$0.00

0.00%

$0

$2,056

Single Room

$2,320

$0.00

0.00%

$0

$2,320

TWELVE MONTH RATE:

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Single Room

$3,289

$0.00

0.00%

$0

$3,289

Hereford College

Double Room

$2,160

$0.00

0.00%

$0

$2,160

Single Room

$2,288

$0.00

0.00%

$0

$2,288

French House

Triple Room

$1,872

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,872

Double Room

$1,976

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,976

Single Room

$2,184

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,184

Facility

Actual 1994-95 Per Student Per Session

Room Amount of Increase

Rent Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Proposed 1995-96 Per Student Per Session

German House

Single Room

$1,870

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,870

Russia House

Double Room

$1,870

$0

0.00%

$122

$1,992

Single Room

$2,090

$0

0.00%

$224

$2,314

Spanish House

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,004

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,004

Three Bedroom

$1,924

$0

0.00%

$0

$1,924

Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)

Double

$2,080

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,080

Single

$2,176

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,176

Large Single

$2,704

$0

0.00%

$0

$2,704

Facility

Actual 1994-95 Per Student Per Month

Room Amount of Increase

Rent Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Proposed 1995-96 Per Student Per Month

APARTMENTS - FAMILY

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$422

$0

0.00%

$0

$422

Two Bedroom

$468

$0

0.00%

$0

$468

Three Bedroom

$505

$0

0.00%

$0

$505

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$408

$0

0.00%

$0

$408

Two Bedroom

$443

$0

0.00%

$0

$443

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1995-96 Session: FacilityActual 1994-95 Per Student Per SessionRoom Amount of IncreaseRent Percent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesProposed 1995-96 Per Student Per SessionMcCormick RoadDouble Room$1,732$00.00%$0$1,732Small Double Room$1,572$00.00%$0$1,572Single$1,832$00.00%$0$1,832Per Day Rate$8$00.00%$0$8LawnSmall Single$1,934$00.00%$224$2,158Regular Single$1,934$00.00%$224$2,158Small Single (no fireplace)$1,880$00.00%$224$2,104RangeRegular Single$1,934$00.00%$224$2,158CrackerboxSingle Room$1,934$00.00%$224$2,158Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$1,694$00.00%$122$1,816Single Room$1,934$00.00%$224$2,158Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)Double Room$1,934$00.00%$122$2,056Single Room$2,096$00.00%$224$2,320Single Room (Private Bath)$2,200$00.00%$224$2,424Gooch/DillardDouble Room$2,056$0.000.00%$0$2,056Single Room$2,320$0.000.00%$0$2,320TWELVE MONTH RATE:Double RoomN/AN/AN/AN/AN/ASingle Room$3,289$0.000.00%$0$3,289Hereford CollegeDouble Room$2,160$0.000.00%$0$2,160Single Room$2,288$0.000.00%$0$2,288French HouseTriple Room$1,872$00.00%$0$1,872Double Room$1,976$00.00%$0$1,976Single Room$2,184$00.00%$0$2,184 FacilityActual 1994-95 Per Student Per SessionRoom Amount of IncreaseRent Percent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesProposed 1995-96 Per Student Per SessionGerman HouseSingle Room$1,870$00.00%$0$1,870Russia HouseDouble Room$1,870$00.00%$122$1,992Single Room$2,090$00.00%$224$2,314Spanish HouseTwo Bedroom$2,004$00.00%$0$2,004APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Brandon, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$2,004$00.00%$0$2,004Three Bedroom$1,924$00.00%$0$1,924Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)Double$2,080$00.00%$0$2,080Single$2,176$00.00%$0$2,176Large Single$2,704$00.00%$0$2,704FacilityActual 1994-95 Per Student Per MonthRoom Amount of IncreaseRent Percent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesProposed 1995-96 Per Student Per MonthAPARTMENTS - FAMILYCopeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$422$00.00%$0$422Two Bedroom$468$00.00%$0$468Three Bedroom$505$00.00%$0$505University GardensOne Bedroom$408$00.00%$0$408Two Bedroom$443$00.00%$0$443

DECLARATION OF MILTON AIRPORT AS SURPLUS PROPERTY
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 172-acre Milton Airport property in Albemarle County be declared surplus to the needs of the University; andRESOLVED FURTHER that it is the intent of the Board that University officials work with the Commonwealth, and with local officials and citizens to preserve and protect the archaeological features of the Milton Airport site; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President is requested to seek sufficient proceeds from the sale or transfer of the property to replace the warehouse space that will be lost if the property is sold or transferred; andRESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said declaration and any related deed of sale.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period October 1, 1994 through December 31, 1994, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure for Ann McAndrew, Grant Coordinator, shall be as follows:Robert Pianta, Associate Professor of Education, is the principal investigator on the grant from which he and his wife Ann McAndrew are paid, therefore, all personnel matters concerning Ann McAndrew will be handled by Luke E. Kelly, Chair, Department of Human Services;RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure for Judith Kinnard, Associate Professor, School of Architecture, shall be as follows:All personnel matters for the Department of Architecture are handled by Kenneth Schwartz, Chair, Department of Architecture, except in employment matters relating to Judith Kinnard. All personnel matters concerning Judith Kinnard will be handled by William McDonough, Dean, School of Architecture.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that in December, 1994, the University received $14m in gifts, the largest amount in a single month in its history. For the six month period, July 1 - December 31, the University received $34.7m, an increase of $4.9m over the same period last year. There have been significant increases in gifts to the College, the Medical Center, the Bayly Museum, the Alderman Library and the Miller Center - all reflecting good work on the part of persons involved with these entities. He cited statistics for giving in several areas and noted a few individual gifts: Mr. Richard Young of Accomac who, with his family, has given money for scholarships; Mr. David Harrison of Prince George County, who has given another $500,000, to the University Foundation; Mr. Paul Barringer who has given a total of nearly $1m to the College, the Law School and for athletics.

The President also noted a recent matching gift from the Republic of China for an endowed Chair in Asian Studies in the Miller Center; the total gift will amount to about $1m. Among other corporate and foundation gifts, and bequests, he reported a $600,000 gift from the Eagle Corporation of Charlottesville.

The report was accepted by the Board.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President introduced Mr. Jason Robinson, Chairman of the Honor Committee, and said that he and some of his colleagues on the Committee wished to report to the Board on the Board's request of last spring that the Committee review its procedures and bylaws for their legal sufficiency. The President noted that he has offered the Committee the full resources of the University, including help from the Office of the Legal Counsel. Mr. Robinson gave a brief report and distributed written material to the Board.

The President next gave several brief reports. Board members, he said, have just been given the current quarterly reports on the restructuring required by the Commonwealth. The basic restructuring documents, which have been sent to the State authorities in Richmond, had been distributed to the Board previously. The President next noted that there is considerable discussion in Washington about the participation of the Federal Government in direct lending programs to students. He has been involved in some of the discussions and he said the matter bears close monitoring. Finally, he noted recent discussions sponsored by the Association of Governing Boards about changing the accreditation process.

APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO A PARTNERSHIP RELATIONSHIP WITH HEALTHSOUTH CORPORATION FOR THE PROVISION OF MEDICAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the University has considered the value of a joint venture with HEALTHSOUTH Corporation to support the mission of the Medical Center; andWHEREAS HEALTHSOUTH Corporation is a national leader in providing medical rehabilitation services; andWHEREAS the 1994 Commonwealth of Virginia legislation pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center (Section 23-77.3 of The Code of Virginia) grants authority to enter into joint ventures;RESOLVED that the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, enter into a joint venture with HEALTHSOUTH Corporation, to provide outpatient rehabilitation services to the Medical Center's region, including the acquisition of the sports medicine rehabilitation program currently conducted through the Department of Athletics, and inpatient rehabilitation services either in the University Hospital or in a free-standing facility, pending completion of a feasibility study and satisfaction of regulatory requirements;RESOLVED FURTHER that The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors be authorized to approve binding contracts and other legal documents related to the joint venture in consultation with the President, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, and the General Counsel;RESOLVED FURTHER that, after execution of formal agreements with the HEALTHSOUTH Corporation, $750,000, be made available from the Medical Center as its share of the initial capital for the joint venture.

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE HONOR COMMITTEE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors are charged by law with "the government and management of the University" including the power and responsibility to "regulate the government and discipline of the students" (Va. Code  23-76);WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors, by prior resolutions and actions, endorsed the establishment of an Honor Code, which stipulates a disciplinary standard of student conduct, and have delegated to the Honor Committee, which is comprised of elected student leaders, the responsibility to administer the Honor Code;WHEREAS, in exercising the statutorily delegated authority with respect to "the government and management of the University" generally and with respect to "the government and discipline of the students" specifically, the Rector and Visitors are "at all times subject to the control of the General Assembly" (Va. Code  23-69), and are empowered to "make such regulations as they may deem expedient, not being contrary to law" (Va. Code  23-76);WHEREAS, in exercising the subdelegated authority with respect to the administration of the Honor Code, the Honor Committee is correspondingly subject at all times to the control of the Rector and Visitors, and the regulations the Honor Committee adopts and the student disciplinary cases it adjudicates must not be contrary to law;WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors have, from time to time, directed the Honor Committee, itself or in consultation with appropriate University administrators, to conduct studies and to review its rules in order to ensure that the administration of the Honor Code and the adjudication of student disciplinary cases are undertaken responsibly and consistent with pertinent legal requirements;WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors are ultimately responsible for actions affecting students and, accordingly, are provided legal defense and indemnification for actions and claims arising in the good faith performance of their delegated public duties, and members of the Honor Committee, as agents of the Rector and Visitors, are similarly entitled to such protections arising in the good faith performance of their subdelegated public duties; andWHEREAS, questions have recently arisen with respect to the Honor Committee's authority to consider disciplinary charges initiated against former and current members of the Honor Committee that contest decisions made or actions taken, in good faith as agents of the University, in connection with the administration of the Honor Code or the adjudication of specific disciplinary cases;RESOLVED that, pursuant to their overarching and ultimate statutory responsibility for the government and discipline of students and their power to make regulations that are not contrary to law, the Rector and Visitors hereby clarify and affirm that the Honor Committee is not empowered to consider charges or institute disciplinary proceedings against former, current, or future members of the Honor Committee that challenge or otherwise assail decisions made or actions taken, after consultation with the President or the General Counsel of the University, by such members in the performance of their duties as agents of the University with respect to the administration of the Honor Code or the adjudication of specific disciplinary cases;RESOLVED FURTHER that any such proceedings undertaken by the Honor Committee constitute an improper use of the Honor Code, and consequently are neither authorized nor will be accorded any legal effect or implementation by the University;RESOLVED FURTHER that this resolution shall not be construed to foreclose: (1) Honor proceedings against Honor Committee members who are charged with misconduct in their personal capacities as individual students (and not in their official capacities as University agents); (2) actions, under duly established Honor Committee rules, to remove individual Committee members from their elected positions, based on material failure or refusal to perform their prescribed duties; or (3) the filing of disciplinary charges, with the University Judiciary Committee, against individual members of the Honor Committee, under the Standards of Conduct which proscribe "intentional conduct which violates the rules of confidentiality, or which obstructs the operations of the Honor Committee."

STATEMENT OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------

As the University community knows, controversy has surrounded the procedures and particular proceedings of the Honor Committee for the past year or so. The Board of Visitors has previously expressed concern about aspects of the operation of the System. Today the Executive Committee of the Board, acting at the behest of the full Board, has adopted a resolution to clarify the nature and extent of the authority delegated to the Honor Committee, to guide the exercise of that authority, and to cooperate with the Honor Committee in initiating review of its processes designed to improve their operation in the future.

The Board supports the Honor System fully and believes that student self-governance adds essential value to education in the University. This principle and the System have served the University well for generations. Most members of the Board are graduates of the University who retain reverence for the Honor System's mission and faith in its basic student-operated structure. Periodically, however, the administration of the System has required scrutiny, and the Board has from time to time exercised oversight and provided guidance to the Honor Committee. The current moment is not unique.

The nature of the Honor Committee's authority may not be well understood. In Thomas Jefferson's time the General Assembly enacted a statute creating the University and granting to the Rector and Visitors both the authority and the responsibility to operate the University in the interest of the people of Virginia. Although it has been amended over time, this 1819 statute remains in effect today. Among other things, it charges the Rector and Board with responsibility for "the government and discipline of the students." The Board is accountable in the exercise of its responsibility for student disciplinary systems both to the General Assembly, the sole source of its authority, and to the courts, which may impose liability on the Rector and Board for violations of state or federal law in the operation of those systems.

Many years ago the Board delegated to the Honor Committee the authority and responsibility to discipline students for offenses involving dishonorable conduct. The Honor Committee's actions in particular cases are those of the University and, indeed, of the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Committee is accountable for its actions to the Board, just as the Board is accountable to the General Assembly. Moreover, like the Board, the Committee may be called to account either by the source of its authority or by the courts if the legal rights of individuals are violated. In the latter event, it is the Rector and Visitors who are subject to the judgment of the court.

The Honor System has changed a great deal in the last quarter century. The great growth in numbers and complexity of the University community, what appears to be a decline in the willingness of students to confront and accuse their fellows, and perhaps other factors have led to continual tinkering with the mechanisms of the System. The System in place today is largely unrecognizable to all but the most recent alumni. These procedural changes have constituted a good faith effort to perpetuate the System's virtues while addressing its potential flaws, but they contribute directly to the Honor System's current dilemma.

The Board and the Honor Committee share the view that the System's bylaws and procedures are too complicated, too laden with ambiguities, too much subject to delay in resolving cases--there are too many opportunities for things to go wrong. Accordingly, the Board and the Committee are committed to reviewing and revitalizing the System, and President Casteen has pledged the assistance and resources of the administration to this effort. This review begins now, with the hope that it can be completed this academic year. The Board and the Committee recognize, however, that results are more important than speed.

The Board's concerns have arisen in the context of the extended controversy surrounding the case of Christopher Leggett and the intense and disruptive aftermath of that case, though the concerns are not limited to what has transpired in that context. Among other things, it has come to the Board's attention that three members of the 1993-94 Executive Committee, whose actions in the Leggett case were under scrutiny and who were outspoken in their opposition to granting Mr. Leggett a new trial, have brought honor charges against their successors in office While these charges have not been reduced to writing or specified with particularity, their essence seems to be that the members of the 1994-95 Executive Committee, who made the decision last summer to grant Mr. Leggett a new trial, lied to the press when they said they had not been pressured by the Board into making that decision.

Several aspects of the current situation persuade the Board that it must act now. The charges were first made last August, just after the second Leggett trial, where Mr. Leggett was accused of cheating on an examination and found not guilty by a jury of students. In the intervening six months the case against the Executive Committee members has not proceeded to the Investigative Panel stage, while the three students charged have been forced both to defend their actions in public and to live throughout an entire semester with the cloud of honor charges over their heads. The current posture of the case makes it highly likely that a second entire semester will be consumed by the Committee's proceedings before a resolution could be reached. Confidentiality of the proceedings has repeatedly been compromised by leaks of information to the press. Last fall the Honor Committee voted to alter its procedures to grant previously non-existent rights to the initiators of these charges. The initiators have contributed to the extraordinary delays by asserting that they were unavailable to participate in the proceedings except at certain restricted times. The initiators of the charges, none currently enrolled in the University, are not, and have refused to make themselves, subject to the jurisdiction of the Honor System in connection with their actions or testimony in the case. Thus they face no risk with regard to this misuse of the Honor System.

These procedural questions, together with the unusual nature of the charges themselves, have convinced the Board that the charges are a personally motivated attempt to punish the members of the 1994-95 Executive Committee for their decision to grant Mr. Leggett a new trial. That conviction is reinforced by the Board members' knowledge that that decision was in fact left to the members of the Honor Committee. The concerns of the Board that Mr. Leggett's due process rights had been violated and that a court battle was likely to be lost were indeed expressed, but it was at all times clear that the decision rested with the Honor Committee. Indeed, the Executive Committee of the Honor Committee did not reach its decision until two months after discussions between the Committee leadership and Board members.

The Board will not permit the process of the Honor System to be abused in this fashion. Equally important, the Board believes that procedural reform is necessary now and that it cannot be achieved in the current atmosphere of recrimination and obsession with Mr. Leggett's case. We believe that it is not appropriate for Honor Committee members, acting as the University's agents, to be put at personal jeopardy for actions taken in good faith in performing their duties under the System.

As today's resolution makes clear, the Honor Committee's authority does not permit entertaining honor charges against any past, present or future members of the Committee for actions taken in their official capacities after consultation with the President or General Counsel of the University. It makes it explicit that the members of the Honor Committee, when acting on official Committee business, have immunity from reprisal within the System for their actions, similar to and commensurate with the immunity held by the Board members and other agents of the Commonwealth for the performance of their official duties.

We are aware that some persons have argued that the Board's involvement constitutes special treatment of certain individuals and that it amounts to hearing an "appeal". Neither concern is well founded. The Board has adopted a general, principled rule to protect its agents in the performance of their duties from retaliatory and vindictive accusations. Members of the Honor Committee's Executive Committee did not ask the Board or the administration to intervene for them, and the Board learned of the pending charges when a student investigator approached a member of the Board and administration officials to give evidence. Nor has there been an "appeal" from any action of the Honor Committee, since the Honor Committee has not acted on the charges, and the Board acted on its own motion and not at the behest of the charged individuals.

In all its actions regarding both the Leggett case and the present situation, the Board's principal motivation has been to preserve the student-run Honor System, both from outside attack and from the fallout of internal dissension.

The Board and the Committee both hope that a sad and divisive incident in the history of the Honor System can be put behind us, that it can become a source of learning and not reprisal, and that the entire University community can now focus its collective attention on making improvements in the System that will restore confidence in its functioning and justify our faith in its future.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:45 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 4, 1995

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 12

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 5

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

absent during vote

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

absent during vote

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent during meeting

Daniel A. Hoffler

absent during vote

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent during meeting

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Allison S. Linney

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on February 4, 1995 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSyes or noHovey S. DabneyyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.absent during voteRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.absent during voteN. Thomas ConnallyyesWarner N. Dalhouseabsent during meetingDaniel A. Hofflerabsent during voteMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesMrs. Patricia M. Klugeabsent during meetingArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallyesAllison S. Linneyyes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 5, 1995

WHEREAS the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Executive Committee that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Executive Committee hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Executive Committee.

VOTE

AYES: 5

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

Daniel A. Hoffler

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

Evans B. Jessee

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

absent

Arnold H. Leon

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

Albert H. Small

Allison S. Linney

At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Sunday, February 5, 1995, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSyes or noHovey S. DabneyyesFranklin K. BirckheadW. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.Robert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.N. Thomas ConnallyyesWarner N. DalhouseDaniel A. HofflerMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandEvans B. JesseeMrs. Patricia M. KlugeabsentArnold H. LeonC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieAlbert H. SmallAllison S. Linney
