---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1995'
month: 8
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA August 21, 1995
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:10 a.m., on Monday, August 21, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, presided. John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Matthew W. Cooper were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Peter W. Low, William W. Harmon, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Robert W. Cantrell, Earl C. Dudley, Jr., Robert T. Canevari, Ronald J. Stump, Ms. Patricia Lampkin, C. William Hancher, Carlos Brown, Alvar Soosar, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes.

After the Rector called the meeting to order, Mr. Dalhouse moved the following motion to permit the Board to meet in Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.

The President outlined briefly the Agenda to be considered by the Board and asked Mr. Earl Dudley of the Law School to review the legal issues raised by the Supreme Court's decision in the "Wide Awake" case, Rosenberger v. Rector and Board of Visitors.

In 1991, Mr. Dudley reminded the Board, the student publication "Wide Awake" applied to Student Council for financial support from the Student Activities Fee. Council denied the request because "Wide Awake" was primarily a religious journal espousing a particular religious point of view. Mr. Rosenberger, the editor of "Wide Awake," brought suit against the University in the Federal District Court in Charlottesville in July, 1991; the Court ruled in favor of the University and this ruling was upheld on appeal. The Supreme Court last fall decided to hear the case and in late June reversed, by a vote of 5-to-4, the decisions of the lower courts.

Mr. Dudley summarized the Supreme Court's ruling as follows: "(1) Because the University is an arm of the state and because the mandatory collection and disbursement of the Student Activities Fee are done pursuant to actions of the Board of Visitors, the terms on which groups are afforded access to the funds must comport with the requirements of the United States Constitution. (2) By funding through the Student Activities Fee speech-related activities, such as speakers, symposia, and the publication of journals, the University has created what is known as a 'limited purpose public forum,' and it may not, consistent with the Free Speech Clause, deny access to that forum - i.e., to funding by the Student Activities Fee - to groups on the basis of their viewpoints. (3) The wide-ranging nature of the speech activities funded by the Student Activity Fee includes discussion of topics related to religion, broadly conceived, and hence denial of funding to a group because it espouses a particular religious perspective constitutes forbidden viewpoint discrimination. (4) The denial of funding for explicitly religious speech is not required by the First Amendment's Establishment of Religion Clause, because by giving Wide Awake access to Student Activities Fee funds the University would not itself be promoting the Christian perspective (which would violate the Clause) but would merely be granting access to the established forum to a group whose very CIO \[Contracted Independent Organization\] charter declares its own independence and responsibility."

Mr. Dudley noted that the Court's ruling leaves many questions unanswered, questions that quite likely will be the subject of future litigation. Among these questions he mentioned, does the decision apply to activities other than publications? Specifically, does it apply to religious services? Does the decision have any impact on the Board's policies which prohibit funding for electioneering and lobbying? Will the courts be involved in the allocation of funds - that is the amount allocated? Finally, the Court's decision suggests that students may have the right to opt out of paying portions of the Student Activities Fee which support causes or organizations to which they are opposed.

The President emphasized that other than prohibiting the University from denying funds to religious publications, the Court gave no guidance in its ruling. He then reviewed the various options it appears the University has.

First, on the face of it perhaps the easiest thing to do would be to abolish the Student Activities Fee and thus the financial support it provides. Such an action, though, would be detrimental to a number of very effective student organizations and would have a dramatic impact on student life; it is quite clear, too, that a great many students and alumni would oppose it.

Another possibility would be to provide support for student organizations through department and school budgets. Yet another would be to pay for what appears to be inevitable litigation with Student Activities Fee money, though these funds probably would be exhausted fairly quickly. The Board could also direct that in considering whether or not to fund specific student groups, speech-related activities be isolated from others. Still another possibility would be for the Board not only to set the funding criteria but to take over the administration of the Fee.

In summing up, the President suggested three options:

1\. Amend the funding guidelines to bring them into compliance with the Court's decision. The Attorney General of the Commonwealth has suggested a course of action in this regard and the President handed around a letter which had arrived in the Attorney General's Office earlier in the morning. (see Attachment)

2\. The Board could decide to make and implement all funding policies.

3\. Initiate a student referendum, or a series of referenda, on whether or not to retain the Student Activities Fee and on other questions.

The President went on to say that an immediate problem is that the University opens in a week and that something must be done quickly if it is the Board's wish to consider funding organizations that previously would have been ineligible for funding. The Board would also need to determine whether political activities - previously considered ineligible for Student Activities Fee funding -are henceforth eligible for funding.

Finally, the President recommended three immediate courses of action: Consider the advice of the Attorney General to remove immediately the funding restrictions struck down by the Court; direct that some sort of supplemental funding application process for support from the Student Activities Fee be instituted; and do not abolish the Student Activities Fee.

The Rector asked Mr. Harmon, Vice President for Student Affairs, to comment and to introduce the Student Council officers who had been invited to speak.

Mr. Harmon said the Board should bear in mind the far-reaching implications of its decisions on these questions, implications not just for the University but for other colleges and universities. He pointed out that at the University, learning does not occur just in the classroom and it is important that the diversity represented by the organizations who receive support from the Student Activities Fee be maintained.

He then introduced Mr. Carlos Brown, President of the Student Council, and Mr. Alvar Soosar, Vice President for Student Organizations.

Mr. Brown and Mr. Soosar spoke to the importance of retaining the Fee and thus continuing the support of the diverse organizations financed by it. They reported that Council members have been studying the possibility of separating funds for the support of speech-related activities from those which support the majority of the organizations funded by Student Activity Fee money. Under this formula, three quarters of the Fee would be used for non-speech related activities. In this way, they hope, most of the Fee could be protected from potential litigation arising out of the Court's decision.

In reply to a question from Ms. Twohy, Mr. Soosar and Mr. Brown said that even with this split in funds, the present guidelines, criteria, and procedures - with, of course, the changes required by the Court - would remain in effect.

Mr. Harmon said a further option open to the Board would be to remove the restrictions as required by the Supreme Court, but to otherwise leave the present system in place and continue to have it administered by students.

Mr. Low, the Provost, asked Mr. Soosar to describe the funding process that will begin shortly after the University opens. Mr. Soosar did so and said that about one fourth of the available funds - in other words, about $100,000 - remain unallocated.

There was a general discussion of the funding process and guidelines, involving Board members, the President, and Messrs. Brown and Soosar.

The Rector recessed the Board at 11:20 a.m., and resumed the meeting in Executive Session at 11:35 a.m. The meeting continued in Open Session at 12:30 p.m.

Mr. Greer offered a resolution, embodying the recommendation of the Attorney General, to amend the funding guidelines for the Student Activities Fee. The resolution was approved unanimously.

RESOLVED that notwithstanding any other provision of these Student Activities Fee funding guidelines, no student news, information, opinion, entertainment or academic communications media group shall be deemed ineligible for funding on the grounds that the ideas or viewpoints expressed or advocated by such group are religious in nature or because such group primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief(s) in or about a deity or an ultimate reality.

The Rector noted that the Administration would work with the Attorney General to study questions raised by the decision of the Court and would bring further recommendations to the Board at its November meeting. The President agreed and said also that a number of issues noted in the Board's discussion would be considered, including the possibility of a student "opt-out" provision in the Fee guidelines.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO EVALUATE AND SELECT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS FOR ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EMPLOYEES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked Mr. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to present the last item on the Agenda.

Referring to material distributed previously to the Board, Mr. Sandridge noted that Board in June had agreed to a one-year "pilot" program during which University employees could subscribe either to the QualChoice or the Key Advantage health care plans. At the end of the year, the Administration was to evaluate the results of the pilot program and decide which plan would be the sole plan offered to its employees. The dates of the pilot program — July 1, 1995 - June 30, 1996 — were predicated on the fiscal rather than the calendar year.

Subsequently, the Commonwealth has decided to put health care plans on the calendar rather than the fiscal year; a decision therefore must be made earlier so that University employees can be enrolled by January 1, 1996. The University, Mr. Sandridge said, proposes that the Executive Vice President, with the concurrence of the President, be authorized to decide which plan should be offered to University employees. The November Board meeting would be late for making the decision; ideally, it should be done in September.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Visitors and the State authorized the University to implement a self-insured health care plan on July 1, 1995, with QualChoice of Virginia, Inc., for all full-time salaried faculty and classified employees who chose to enroll; andWHEREAS this plan was authorized by the State as a one-year pilot program to coincide with the State's health care plan year, which at the time ran from July 1, 1995, to June 30, 1996; andWHEREAS it was understood that the University would select one of the plans to be its permanent health care plan at the conclusion of the pilot period; andWHEREAS the State has advised the University that its health care plan year will be changed to a calendar year effective January 1, 1996;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President assess the feasibility of concluding the pilot period effective January 1, 1996; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President, with the concurrence of the President, is authorized to decide which one of the two existing health care programs will be offered permanently to all eligible University employees; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President notify the Board of Visitors of these decisions not later than November 10, 1995.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:40 p.m.

AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT COMMONWEALTH of VIRGINIA Office of the Attorney General Richmond 23219 James S. Gilmore, III Attorney General 900 East Main Street Richmond. Virginia 23219 804 - 786 - 207 804 - 371 - 8945 TDC August 21, 1995
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

By Facsimile

Earl Dudley, Esquire

Special Assistant Attorney General

Madison Hall

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia

Dear Earl:

This letter is to follow-up our telephone conversation last Friday, August 18, in which you, Paul Forch and I discussed this Office's views about changes in the SAF Guidelines following the Supreme Court decision in the Rosenberger case. I understand that you will be communicating this letter to the Board of Visitors at its August 21 meeting, along with any other views that you may deem appropriate to express.

As I said on Friday, this Office believes there are two separate issues that need to be addressed by the Board, one more urgently than the other. The first -- and more pressing -- issue is how to revise the Guidelines to make them comply with the Supreme Court's holding in Rosenberger. The second -- and broader -- issue is how best to revise the Guidelines to withstand scrutiny in the event new constitutional claims are asserted in the future.

In the view of this Office, the first issue can be easily resolved by the Board on Monday, by adopting an amendment to the Guidelines as follows:

SPECIAL RULE FOR STUDENT NEWS, INFORMATION, OPINION. ENTERTAINMENT OR ACADEMIC COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA GROUPS:

Notwithstanding any other provision of these Student Activity Fee Funding Guidelines, no student news, information, opinion, entertainment or academic communications media group shall be deemed ineligible for funding on the grounds that the ideas or viewpoints expressed or advocated by such group are religious in nature or because such group primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief(s) in or about a deity or an ultimate reality.

Such an amendment would override the current funding exclusions insofar as they pertain to groups like Wide Awake and would avoid the problems inherent in a complete elimination of the "religious activity" exclusion.1 1One such problem would be the apparent approval of funding for worship services, a use of funds not at issue in Rosenberger and undoubtedly an establishment clause violation.

One such problem would be the apparent approval of funding for worship services, a use of funds not at issue in Rosenberger and undoubtedly an establishment clause violation.

Beyond the immediate need to bring the Guidelines into compliance with the Rosenberger decision, there is a need to make those changes in the Guidelines that will best position the University to withstand any future constitutional challenge.2 2Without my implying one way or the other whether there is any perceived constitutional infirmity in the Guidelines beyond the one addressed by Rosenberger, potential challenges could include (i) a challenge to the "political activity" exclusion, (ii) a challenge to the mandatory nature of the fee, and/or (iii) challenges that seek to refine the meaning of Rosenberger in drawing a line between the free speech and establishment clauses. In the view of this Office, this is a process that can best be accomplished with further legal review and consultation between attorneys here and those assigned to represent the University in Charlottesville. It is recommended that such review and consultation be completed in time for the Board to address the broader issues in the next 3 - 6 months.

Without my implying one way or the other whether there is any perceived constitutional infirmity in the Guidelines beyond the one addressed by Rosenberger, potential challenges could include (i) a challenge to the "political activity" exclusion, (ii) a challenge to the mandatory nature of the fee, and/or (iii) challenges that seek to refine the meaning of Rosenberger in drawing a line between the free speech and establishment clauses.

I appreciate your conveying the recommendation from this Office to the Board of Visitors. If I can be of any assistance during the course of the meeting, I can be reached at (804) 786-3898.

cc: James S. Gilmore, III, Attorney General Paul J. Forch, Senior Assistant Attorney General

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIACERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: August 21, 1995

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 13

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

absent

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

absent

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

absent

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Matthew W. Cooper

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Monday, August 21, 1995, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Member's voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSyes or noHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesRobert G. Butcher, Jr.yesMortimer M. CaplinabsentCharles M. Caravati, Jr.absentWarner N. DalhouseyesT. Keister GreeryesDaniel A. HofflerabsentMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesMrs. Elizabeth D. MorieyesAlbert H. SmallabsentElizabeth A. TwohyyesMatthew W. Cooperyes
