---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1996'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1996) April 11, 1996
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 11, 1996

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TENTATIVE MINUTES - SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 11-12, 1996
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:50 p.m., on Thursday, April 11, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 5:20 p.m., on Friday, April 12, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, William H. Goodwin, T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of February 10, 1996, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced the two new members of the Board: Mr. William H. Goodwin, Jr., and Mr. Henry L. Valentine, II, both of Richmond. He also introduced Mr. Champ Clark of Greene County, who has been appointed to the Board by the Governor, but who will not take his seat until the June meeting. Mr. Clark is a member of the teaching faculty of the University and cannot serve on the Board; he will resign his faculty position at the conclusion of the spring term. Finally, the Rector presented Mr. Sean N. Bryant of Reston, a third-year student in the College, who will assume the position of Student Member at the conclusion of this Board meeting.

APPRECIATION TO THE RETIRING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
-------------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed appreciation for the terms of the retiring members of the Board, Mr. Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mr. Daniel A. Hoffler, and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, who have served the University with great devotion and distinction.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCIES ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------------

As required in Section 23-75 of The Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the following members were elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors until the Annual Meeting in June 1996:

Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin

Mr. William H. Goodwin, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES
----------------------------------

AUDIT COMMITTEE

Franklin K. Birckhead, Chair Arnold H. Leon Albert H. Small Henry L. Valentine, II

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

Albert H. Small, Chair Sean N. Bryant Champ Clark William H. Goodwin, Jr. Elsie Goodwyn Holland Evans B. Jessee

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

Elizabeth A. Twohy, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Sean N. Bryant Mortimer M. Caplin Charles M. Caravati, Jr. T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwyn Holland

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

Arnold H. Leon, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Mortimer M. Caplin Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Warner N. Dalhouse T. Keister Greer Elizabeth A. Twohy

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Mortimer M. Caplin, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Warner N. Dalhouse William H. Goodwin, Jr. Arnold H. Leon C. Wilson McNeely, III Henry L. Valentine, II

HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair John P. Ackerly, III William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer Evans B. Jessee C. Wilson McNeely, III Albert H. Small

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

C. Wilson McNeely, III, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Sean N. Bryant Champ Clark Elsie Goodwyn Holland Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II

SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

Warner N. Dalhouse, Chair Champ Clark Evans B. Jessee Hovey S. Dabney, Ex Officio

INVESTMENT SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE

Mortimer M. Caplin, Chair Warner N. Dalhouse William H. Goodwin, Jr. Arnold H. Leon Henry L. Valentine, II Hovey S. Dabney, Ex Officio

As provided in Section 3.2 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees of the Board to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1996.

AUDIT COMMITTEEFranklin K. Birckhead, Chair Arnold H. Leon Albert H. Small Henry L. Valentine, IIBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, Chair Sean N. Bryant Champ Clark William H. Goodwin, Jr. Elsie Goodwyn Holland Evans B. JesseeEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEElizabeth A. Twohy, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Sean N. Bryant Mortimer M. Caplin Charles M. Caravati, Jr. T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwyn HollandEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEArnold H. Leon, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Mortimer M. Caplin Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Warner N. Dalhouse T. Keister Greer Elizabeth A. TwohyFINANCE COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Warner N. Dalhouse William H. Goodwin, Jr. Arnold H. Leon C. Wilson McNeely, III Henry L. Valentine, IIHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEECharles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair John P. Ackerly, III William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer Evans B. Jessee C. Wilson McNeely, III Albert H. Small

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEC. Wilson McNeely, III, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Sean N. Bryant Champ Clark Elsie Goodwyn Holland Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex-officio member of all committees.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEWarner N. Dalhouse, Chair Champ Clark Evans B. Jessee Hovey S. Dabney, Ex OfficioINVESTMENT SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEEMortimer M. Caplin, Chair Warner N. Dalhouse William H. Goodwin, Jr. Arnold H. Leon Henry L. Valentine, II Hovey S. Dabney, Ex Officio

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector explained to the new members that Committee meetings are held consecutively and that all resolutions adopted by the Committees are then considered by the full Board as the last order of business of the Board meeting. He also told the new members that all communications addressed to individual members of the Board should be referred to the Rector.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President reported on procedures being instituted to make certain that rules and policies of the University as stated in the several issues of the Record, which constitute the University Catalogue, are current and accurate. The President also reported on plans to study and codify University policies and regulations, separating those which are approved by the Board from those which are promulgated by the Administration of the University. He said that a thorough search of the Board's Minutes would be undertaken, that the project would be supervised by the General Counsel, and that he would ask the Rector to appoint a special committee of the Board to take part in this study and revision. Work on the project should begin in the summer.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a.(7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a.(1) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 5:20 p.m., on Friday, April 12, 1996.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Antonio Cisneros as Visiting Professor of Spanish Literature, for one semester, effective January 16, 1996.Ms. Urszula Derewenda as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Zygmunt S. Derewenda as Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Kim Abubakar Forde-Mazrui as Assistant Professor of Law, for five years, effective September 1, 1996.Mr. Brendan S. Graves as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective February 1, 1996.Ms. Meei-Huey Jeng as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Victor E. Laubach as Assistant Professor of Research in Surgery, for three years, effective March 1, 1996.Ms. Alisa M. Smith as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1995.Mr. Michael F. Smith, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective May 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth Olmsted Teisberg as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective June 1, 1996.Dr. Nathan M. Thielman as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Wei Yue as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1996.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of ChairholdersMr. Paul Barolsky as Commonwealth Professor of Art History, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. David C. Brydges as Commonwealth Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1996.Dr. Robert E. McLaughlin as S. Ward Cassells Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, effective March 1, 1996.Mr. David O'Brien as Leone Reaves and George W. Spicer Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Robert O'Connell as John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective April 1, 1996.Mr. Brian Parshall as Gordon Thomas Whyburn Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Craig L. Sarazin as W. H. Vanderbilt Professor of Astronomy, effective April 1, 1996.Mr. William T. Scherer as Lucien Carr, III, Associate Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective July 1, 1995.Mr. James M. Trice as Brenton S. Halsey Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective January 16, 1996.(b) Change of Title of ChairholderDr. Thomas P. Bleck from John T. and Louise Nerancy Associate Professor of Neuroscience to Louise Nerancy Associate Professor of Neurology, effective June 1, 1995.(c) Resignation of Chairholder

The the following resignation was announced: Mr. Douglas J. White, Neal and Nancy Wade Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective May 31, 1996, for personal reasons.(d) Retirements of Chairholders

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Paul R. Gross, University Professor of Life Sciences, effective August 31, 1996. Mr. Gross has been a member of the faculty since October 15, 1986.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., F.S. Cornell Professor of Free Enterprise, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Hunt has been a member of the faculty since June 3, 1957.Mr. Lionel I. Rebhun, Commonwealth Professor of Biology, effective June 1, 1996. Mr. Rebhun has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1996. Ms. Scarr has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1983.Mr. Tsung Y. Shen, Alfred Burger Professor of Biological and Medicinal Chemistry, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Shen has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1986.Mr. Samuel J. Taylor, Gordon Thomas Whyburn Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1996. Mr. Taylor has been a member of the faculty since August 1, 1984.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted:Ms. Suzanne M. Burns from Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Ms. Susan E. Kennel from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. John C. Kirchgessner from Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1996.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Julie L. Blommel, Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective February 29, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas F. Collins, Assistant Professor of Education, effective January 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Eric L. Fears, Instructor, General Faculty, effective February 15, 1996, to accept another position.Ms. Lie-Ju Hwang, Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, effective February 15, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Louis T. Rader, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective January 16, 1996, for personal reasons.Mr. Ronald J. Stump, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective March 22, 1996, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Professor of Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Chartres has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.Ms. Patricia R. Crook, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1996. Ms. Crook has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1977.Ms. Gladys E. Deters, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1996. Ms. Deters has been a member of the faculty since August 26, 1974.Mr. William A. Elwood, Associate Professor of English, effective June 30, 1996. Mr. Elwood has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.Mr. Robert R. Fair, Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Fair has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.Dr. Dieter H. Groschel, Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1996. Dr. Groschel has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1979.Mr. Nathaniel F. Martin, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Martin has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1959.Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Professor of Music, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Mead has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1953.Mr. Albert B. Reynolds, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Reynolds has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.Mr. Walter Sablinsky, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Sablinsky has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1971.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1996. Ms. Scarr has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1983.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Professor of Physics, effective January 15, 1996. Mr. Sobottka has been a member of the faculty since January 16, 1964.Ms. Maria Michaela Thompson, Assistant Professor of Research in Physiology & Biological Physics, effective June 30, 1995. Ms. Thompson has been a member of the faculty since November 1, 1981.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Heather E. Craddock as Assistant to the President, for two years, effective November 26, 1995.Ms. Monica L. Nixon as Staff Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for three years, effective February 16, 1996.Ms. Elaine B. Steen as Assistant to the Senior Vice President, for one year, effective January 1, 1996.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. Robert M. Carey as Dean of the School of Medicine, for five years, effective April 1, 1996.Mr. Lee S. Goodman as Associate General Counsel, for the period January 19, 1996 through December 31, 1999.Ms. Diane G. Hillman as Assistant Vice President for Health Sciences, for three years, effective February 1, 1996.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professors Emeriti:Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Professor of Civil Engineering and Applied Mechanics, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Robert R. Fair, Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1996.Dr. Dieter H. Groschel, Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1996.Mr. Paul R. Gross, University Professor of Life Sciences, effective August 31, 1996.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., F.S. Cornell Professor of Free Enterprise, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Nathaniel F. Martin, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Professor of Music, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Lionel I. Rebhun, Commonwealth Professor of Biology, effective June 1, 1996.Mr. Albert B. Reynolds, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Fred D. Rosi, Research Professor of Materials Science, effective June 30, 1995.Ms. Sandra W. Scarr, Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Tsung Y. Shen, Alfred Burger Professor of Biological and Medicinal Chemistry, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Professor of Physics, effective January 15, 1996.Mr. Samuel J. Taylor, Gordon Thomas Whyburn Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1996.

ELECTIONS OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Associate Professors Emeriti:Ms. Patricia R. Crook, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1996.Mr. William A. Elwood, Associate Professor of English, effective June 30, 1996.Mr. Walter Sablinsky, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1996.

DEATH
-----

APPROVAL OF MEETING DATES FOR 1997
----------------------------------

Friday and Saturday, February 7 and 8, 1997

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday, April 4 and 5, 1997

Clinch Valley College Wise, Virginia

Friday and Saturday, June 13 and 14, 1997

Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday, November 7 and 8, 1997

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following dates for the 1997 meetings of the Board are approved: Friday and Saturday, February 7 and 8, 1997CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday, April 4 and 5, 1997Clinch Valley College Wise, VirginiaFriday and Saturday, June 13 and 14, 1997CharlottesvilleFriday and Saturday, November 7 and 8, 1997Charlottesville

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO MATTHEW W. COOPER
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Matthew William Cooper of Alabama, became the Student Member of the Board in April, 1995; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cooper, a third-year student in the School of Law, has contributed enormously to the life of the University both as an undergraduate, when he was President of the Student Council, and as a graduate student; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cooper has served the University and the Board with great distinction as the Student Member; andWHEREAS, Mr. Cooper's term as Student Member ends on April 12, 1996, and his time as a student on May 19, 1996, when he will take the degree of Juris Doctor;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors thanks Matthew William Cooper for his devoted service to the Board, and to the University of Virginia, wishes him well as he leaves the University, and congratulates him on his forthcoming marriage.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALBERT C. BEVIER RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Albert C. BeVier Research Professorship in Law. The Board is grateful to Mr. Michael J. and Ms. Lillian R. BeVier who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STRICKLER FAMILY PROFESSORSHIP IN TRANSPLANT SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Strickler Family Professorship in Transplant Surgery. The Board is grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Charles O. Strickler who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE IN NAME OF THE VIRGIL S. WARD PROFESSORSHIP
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Chair previously established in the School of Education as the Virgil S. Ward Professorship in Differential Education for the Gifted be changed to the Virgil S. Ward Professorship in Education.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISIONREGULAR SESSION:CONTINUING EDUCATION:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Tuition and Required E&G Fees for Undergraduate and Graduate School Full Time Students

$3,885

$0

0.0%

$3,885

$13,193

$394

3.0%

$13,587

Auxiliary Fees

$701

$34

4.9%

$735

$785

$34

4.3%

$819

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$4,586

$34

0.7%

$4,620

$13,978

$428

3.1%

$14,406

Medical Technology

$2,244

$34

1.5%

$2,278

$2,244

$34

1.5%

$2,278

Professional Schools: Graduate Business - MBA

$9,972

$264

2.6%

$10,236

$19,054

$490

2.6%

$19,544

Darden Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$1,500

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Law - JD and Graduate

$8,734

$234

2.7%

$8,968

$18,638

$478

2.6%

$19,116

Law Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)

n/a

n/a

n/a

$3,000

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Adjustment (Second Year Students Only)

$1,500

$0

0.0%

$1,500

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Medicine - MD

$9,238

$290

3.1%

$9,528

$21,212

$646

3.0%

$21,858

Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[1\] \[1\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)

$506

$0

0.0%

$506

$506

$0

0.0%

$506

Mid-Career Program Fee

$500

$0

0.0%

$500

$500

$0

0.0%

$500

Activity Fee

General - All Students

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

$28

$0

0.0%

$28

Part-Time Students

$8

$0

0.0%

$8

$8

$0

0.0%

$8

College of Arts & Sciences Students

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Architecture

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Engineering

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Grad. Arts & Sciences

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Law School

$28

$6

21.4%

$34

$28

$6

21.4%

$34

Medicine

$140

($20)

\-14.3%

$120

$140

($20)

\-14.3%

$120

Nursing

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Residential College Programming Fee

Hereford College

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Brown College

$100

$20

20.0%

$120

$100

$20

20.0%

$120

Current 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Non-Degree Programs - Undergraduate and Graduate (Including Certification Program)

Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $188 for Non-Virginian.

Virginian

$141

$0

0.0%

$141

Non-Virginian

$201

$6

3.0%

$207

Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds

Courses Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$211

$0

0.0%

$211

Non-Virginian

$726

$22

3.0%

$748

Masters Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$184

$0

0.0%

$184

Non-Virginian

$250

$8

3.2%

$258

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$215

$0

0.0%

$215

Non-Virginian

$392

$12

3.1%

$404

Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Current 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Late Registration Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Change of Course Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Facilities Fee - Northern Virginia Center (Per Semester Hour)

$5

$0

0.0%

$5

Transcript Fee

$3

$0

0.0%

$3

Late Exam Fee

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1996: REGULAR SESSION:VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Actual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Tuition and Required E&G Fees for Undergraduate and Graduate School Full Time Students$3,885$00.0%$3,885$13,193$3943.0%$13,587Auxiliary Fees$701$344.9%$735$785$344.3%$819Total Tuition and Required Fees$4,586$340.7%$4,620$13,978$4283.1%$14,406Medical Technology$2,244$341.5%$2,278$2,244$341.5%$2,278Professional Schools: Graduate Business - MBA$9,972$2642.6%$10,236$19,054$4902.6%$19,544Darden Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)n/an/an/a$1,500n/an/an/an/aLaw - JD and Graduate$8,734$2342.7%$8,968$18,638$4782.6%$19,116Law Base In-State Tuition Adjustment (First Year Students Only)n/an/an/a$3,000n/an/an/an/aAdjustment (Second Year Students Only)$1,500$00.0%$1,500n/an/an/an/aMedicine - MD$9,238$2903.1%$9,528$21,212$6463.0%$21,858Music Lessons (13 one-hour \[1\] \[1\]The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated. lessons per semester)$506$00.0%$506$506$00.0%$506Mid-Career Program Fee$500$00.0%$500$500$00.0%$500Activity FeeGeneral - All Students$28$00.0%$28$28$00.0%$28Part-Time Students$8$00.0%$8$8$00.0%$8College of Arts & Sciences Students$4$00.0%$4$4$00.0%$4Architecture$40$00.0%$40$40$00.0%$40Commerce$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Darden$55$00.0%$55$55$00.0%$55 VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Actual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Education$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Engineering$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Grad. Arts & Sciences$4$00.0%$4$4$00.0%$4Law School$28$621.4%$34$28$621.4%$34Medicine$140($20)-14.3%$120$140($20)-14.3%$120Nursing$10$00.0%$10$10$00.0%$10Residential College Programming FeeHereford College$100$00.0%$100$100$00.0%$100Brown College$100$2020.0%$120$100$2020.0%$120 CONTINUING EDUCATION:Current 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996-97Non-Degree Programs - Undergraduate and Graduate (Including Certification Program)Per Semester Hour\* \*Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $188 for Non-Virginian. Virginian$141$00.0%$141Non-Virginian$201$63.0%$207Special Students Registered through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-GroundsCourses Per Semester HourVirginian$211$00.0%$211Non-Virginian$726$223.0%$748Masters Degree Programs Per Semester HourVirginian$184$00.0%$184Non-Virginian$250$83.2%$258Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester HourVirginian$215$00.0%$215Non-Virginian$392$123.1%$404Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs$25$00.0%$25 Current 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996-97Late Registration Fee$15$00.0%$15Change of Course Fee$12$00.0%$12Facilities Fee - Northern Virginia Center (Per Semester Hour)$5$00.0%$5Transcript Fee$3$00.0%$3Late Exam Fee$10$00.0%$10

The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated.

Per semester hour rates for Educators in K-12 will be $129 for Virginian and $188 for Non-Virginian.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$2,368

$0

0.0%

$2,368

$6,692

$200

3.0%

$6,892

Auxiliary Fees

$832

$58

7.0%

$890

$832

$58

7.0%

$890

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$3,200

$58

1.8%

$3,258

$7,524

$258

3.4%

$7,782

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed as follows.

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

$96

$0

0.0%

$96

$278

$8

2.9%

$286

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$96

$0

0.0%

$96

$193

$6

3.1%

$199

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$100

$3

3.0%

$103

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

Returned Check Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1996: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Actual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Tuition and Required E&G FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$2,368$00.0%$2,368$6,692$2003.0%$6,892Auxiliary Fees$832$587.0%$890$832$587.0%$890Total Tuition and Required Fees$3,200$581.8%$3,258$7,524$2583.4%$7,782Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed as follows. VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Actual 1995-96Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1996-97Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour$96$00.0%$96$278$82.9%$286Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$96$00.0%$96$193$63.1%$199Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU$34$00.0%$34$100$33.0%$103Other FeesApplication Fee$15$00.0%$15$15$00.0%$15Graduation Fee$50$00.0%$50$50$00.0%$50Returned Check Fee$15$00.0%$15$15$00.0%$15A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of Clinch Valley College and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.2:1.B of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1996-97 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1995-96

Amount of Inc/(Decr)

Percent Inc/(Decr)

Proposed 1996-97

Pledged for Facilities-University Hall

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

University Transit

$61

$2

3.3%

$63

Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)

$245

$8

3.3%

$253

Athletics

$132

$6

4.5%

$138

Student Health

$192

$6

3.1%

$198

University Union

$57

$12

21.1%

$69

University Union Programs

$16

$0

0.0%

$16

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS

$754

$34

4.5%

$788

Debt Service Fee - 1992 General Obligation Bonds

$84

$0

0.0%

$84

TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS

$838

$34

4.1%

$872

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 1996, in the amount of $788, for in-state students and $872 for out-of-state students;RESOLVED FURTHER the fee component be allocated for the 1996-97 Session as follows: Actual 1995-96Amount of Inc/(Decr)Percent Inc/(Decr)Proposed 1996-97Pledged for Facilities-University Hall$15$00.0%$15University Transit$61$23.3%$63Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)$245$83.3%$253Athletics$132$64.5%$138Student Health$192$63.1%$198University Union$57$1221.1%$69University Union Programs$16$00.0%$16Capital Renewal Fee$24$00.0%$24Arts Fee$12$00.0%$12TOTAL IN-STATE STUDENTS$754$344.5%$788Debt Service Fee - 1992 General Obligation Bonds$84$00.0%$84TOTAL OUT-OF-STATE STUDENTS$838$344.1%$872

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1996-97 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1995-96

Change in Plus Dollars

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Dining Service Contract

7 Day (19 meals) (1) (1)Discontinued meal plan

$2,030

\---

\---

\---

Unlimited Entry (2) (2)New meal plan

\---

\---

\---

$2,110

9 Meals per week (1)

$1,790

\---

\---

\---

10 Meals per week (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,800

12 Meals per week (1)

$1,920

\---

\---

\---

15 Meals per week

$2,000

$50

$60

3.0%

$2,110

50 Meals per semester

$830

($30)

\-3.6%

$800

80 Meals per semester (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,100

100 Meals per semester

$1,310

($30)

\-2.3%

$1,280

Residential Colleges

Unlimited Entry (2)

\---

\---

\---

$2,220

9 Meals per week (1)

$1,990

\---

\---

\---

10 Meals per week (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,910

12 Meals per week (1)

$2,120

\---

\---

\---

15 Meals per week

$2,200

$50

($30)

\-1.4%

$2,220

80 Meals per semester (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,210

100 Meals per semester

$1,510

$0

($120)

\-7.9%

$1,390

Language Houses

10 Meals per week (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,910

80 Meals per semester (2)

\---

\---

\---

$1,210

100 Meals per semester

$1,510

($120)

\-7.9%

$1,390

Actual 1995-96

Change in Plus Dollars

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996-97

Residential Colleges (cont'd)

Athletics

Unlimited Entry (2)

\---

\---

\---

$2,260

9 Meals per week (1)

$2,140

\---

\---

\---

10 Meals per week (2)

\---

$150

\---

\---

$1,950

12 Meals per week (1)

$2,140

\---

\---

\---

15 Meals per week

$2,150

$50

$60

2.8%

$2,260

19 Meals per week (1)

$2,180

\---

\---

\---

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

19 Meal Plan

$1,906

$56

2.9%

$1,962

12 Meal Plan

$1,714

$50

2.9%

$1,764

7 Meal Plan (1)

$858

\---

\---

\---

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1996-97 Session: ACADEMIC DIVISIONActual 1995-96Change in Plus DollarsAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996-97Dining Service Contract7 Day (19 meals) (1) (1)Discontinued meal plan $2,030---------Unlimited Entry (2) (2)New meal plan ---------$2,1109 Meals per week (1)$1,790---------10 Meals per week (2)---------$1,80012 Meals per week (1)$1,920---------15 Meals per week$2,000$50$603.0%$2,11050 Meals per semester$830($30)-3.6%$80080 Meals per semester (2)---------$1,100100 Meals per semester$1,310($30)-2.3%$1,280Residential CollegesUnlimited Entry (2)---------$2,2209 Meals per week (1)$1,990---------10 Meals per week (2)---------$1,91012 Meals per week (1)$2,120---------15 Meals per week$2,200$50($30)-1.4%$2,22080 Meals per semester (2)---------$1,210100 Meals per semester$1,510$0($120)-7.9%$1,390Language Houses10 Meals per week (2)---------$1,91080 Meals per semester (2)---------$1,210100 Meals per semester$1,510($120)-7.9%$1,390 Actual 1995-96Change in Plus DollarsAmount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996-97Residential Colleges (cont'd)AthleticsUnlimited Entry (2)---------$2,2609 Meals per week (1)$2,140---------10 Meals per week (2)---$150------$1,95012 Meals per week (1)$2,140---------15 Meals per week$2,150$50$602.8%$2,26019 Meals per week (1)$2,180---------CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE19 Meal Plan$1,906$562.9%$1,96212 Meal Plan$1,714$502.9%$1,7647 Meal Plan (1)$858---------

Discontinued meal plan

New meal plan

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 1996-1997 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1996-97 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (2)

WS,E,G,C

$390

$10

2.6%

$400

1 Bedroom Apt. (5)\* The asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized.

WS,E,G,C

$395

$10

2.5%

$405

2 Bedroom Apt. (3)

WS,E,G,C

$485

$10

2.1%

$495

2 Bedroom Apt. (13)\*

WS,E,G,C

$505

$10

2.0%

$515

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1996-97 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

3 Bedroom Houses (7)

WS,C

$557

$13

2.3%

$570

G,E

3 Bedroom Houses (9)\*

WS,C

$690

$15

2.2%

$705

G,E

3BR Townhouses (3)\*

WS,C

$690

$15

2.2%

$705

E

3BR Townhouses (2)

WS,C

$557

$13

2.3%

$570

E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$10

2.6%

$395

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$450

$10

2.2%

$460

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$385

$10

2.6%

$395

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C

$414

$6

1.4%

$420

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom (6)

WS,G,C

$360

$5

1.4%

$365

E

1 Bedroom (9)\*

WS,G,C

$390

$10

2.6%

$400

E

Efficiency (1)

WS,G,C

$300

$5

1.7%

$305

E

404 Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$445

$10

2.2%

$455

E

412A Monroe Ln (2BR)

WS,G,C

$460

$10

2.2%

$470

E

412B Monroe Ln (Eff)

WS,G,C

$310

$5

1.6%

$315

E

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$482

$8

1.7%

$490

E,O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,O

$512

$8

1.6%

$520

E

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,O

$450

$10

2.2%

$460

E

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,C

$310

$5

1.6%

$315

Upper Mews (1BR)\*

WS,E,HP,C

$481

$9

1.9%

$490

Lower Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$400

$10

2.5%

$410

Brown College Range (2BR)

WS,C,HP

$495

$10

2.0%

$505

E

Brown College Apt. (2)

WS,E,C,HVAC

$440

$10

2.3%

$450

Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)

WS,E,C,HVAC

$535

$10

1.9%

$545

Vaughn House

WS,E,C,HVAC

$660

$15

2.3%

$675

102 Cresap Fac. Apt.

WS,E,G,C

$495

$10

2.0%

$505

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C

$347

$8

2.3%

$355

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C

$566

$9

1.6%

$575

E,O

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C

$573

$12

2.1%

$585

E,O

Birdwood House (3BR)

WS,C

$626

$14

2.2%

$640

E,O,G

Faulkner Properties

Holly House Upper (2BR)

WS,E,O,C

$430

$10

2.3%

$440

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS,E,O,C

$215

$5

2.3%

$220

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1996-97 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Hedge House (2BR)

WS,C

$418

$7

1.7%

$425

E,O

Orchard House (5RMS)

WS,E,G,C

$255

$5

2.0%

$260

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C

$487

$8

1.6%

$495

E,G

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$475

$10

2.1%

$485

E

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)\*

WS,G,C

$500

$10

2.0%

$510

E

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

C

$430

$10

2.3%

$440

WS,E,O

411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*

C

$540

$10

1.9%

$550

WS,E,G

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$350

$5

1.4%

$355

WS,E,G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$10

2.2%

$465

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$10

2.2%

$465

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$10

2.2%

$465

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$455

$10

2.2%

$465

Apt. 21, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$320

$5

1.6%

$325

Apt. 22, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$360

$5

1.4%

$365

Apt. 23, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$305

$5

1.6%

$310

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$350

$5

1.4%

$355

Apt. 25, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 26, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 27, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 28, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 31, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 32, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$370

$5

1.4%

$375

Apt. 33, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$400

$10

2.5%

$410

Apt. 34, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$400

$10

2.5%

$410

Apt. 35, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$400

$10

2.5%

$410

Apt. 36, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$400

$10

2.5%

$410

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,O,A/C

$549

$11

2.0%

$560

C

Big Morea (4 BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$774

$16

2.1%

$790

C

Little Morea (2BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$597

$13

2.2%

$610

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,268

$27

2.1%

$1,295

C

Brown College House(3 BR)

WS,E,HVAC

$704

$11

1.6%

$715

C

Buckingham Palace

WS,E,HP,A/C

$325

$5

1.5%

$330

C

Properties

Utilities Furnished

Rents 1995-96 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1996-97 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Pavilion I

WS,E,HVAC

$632

$13

2.1%

$645

Pavilion II

WS,HP

$466

$9

1.9%

$475

E

Pavilion III

WS,E,HVAC

$632

$13

2.1%

$645

Pavilion IV

WS,HP

$466

$9

1.9%

$475

E

Pavilion V

WS,E,HVAC

$632

$13

2.1%

$645

Pavilion VI

WS,E,HVAC

$632

$13

2.1%

$645

Pavilion VIII Lower

WS,E,HVAC

$199

$6

3.0%

$205

Pavilion VIII Upper

WS,E,HVAC

$404

$6

1.5%

$410

Pavilion IX

WS,E,HVAC

$632

$13

2.1%

$645

Pavilion X

WS,HP

$466

$9

1.9%

$475

E

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Farmhouse

WS

$630

$15

2.4%

$645

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,O

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

Houses (6)

WS

$420

$8

1.9%

$428

G,E

2 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$420

$8

1.9%

$428

E

1 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$395

$7

1.8%

$402

E

Cohen House

n/a

$525

$25

4.8%

$550

all

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1996. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated. ACADEMIC DIVISIONPropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1995-96 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1996-97 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (2)WS,E,G,C$390$102.6%$4001 Bedroom Apt. (5)\* The asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized. WS,E,G,C$395$102.5%$4052 Bedroom Apt. (3)WS,E,G,C$485$102.1%$4952 Bedroom Apt. (13)\*WS,E,G,C$505$102.0%$515 PropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1995-96 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1996-97 Per MonthUtilities Paid By Occupant3 Bedroom Houses (7)WS,C$557$132.3%$570G,E3 Bedroom Houses (9)\*WS,C$690$152.2%$705G,E3BR Townhouses (3)\*WS,C$690$152.2%$705E3BR Townhouses (2)WS,C$557$132.3%$570E121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$102.6%$395Apt. 2, 3 BedroomWS,E,G,C$450$102.2%$460Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C$385$102.6%$395Apt. 4, 2 BedroomWS,E,G,C$414$61.4%$420Monroe Lane1 Bedroom (6)WS,G,C$360$51.4%$365E1 Bedroom (9)\*WS,G,C$390$102.6%$400EEfficiency (1)WS,G,C$300$51.7%$305E404 Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$445$102.2%$455E412A Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C$460$102.2%$470E412B Monroe Ln (Eff)WS,G,C$310$51.6%$315ESundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$482$81.7%$490E,OUpper Alden (3BR)WS,O$512$81.6%$520ELower Alden (2BR)WS,O$450$102.2%$460EMcGuffey Cottage (Eff)WS,E,C$310$51.6%$315Upper Mews (1BR)\*WS,E,HP,C$481$91.9%$490Lower Mews (1BR)WS,E,HP,C$400$102.5%$410Brown College Range (2BR)WS,C,HP$495$102.0%$505EBrown College Apt. (2)WS,E,C,HVAC$440$102.3%$450Hereford Coll. Fac. Apts. (2)WS,E,C,HVAC$535$101.9%$545Vaughn HouseWS,E,C,HVAC$660$152.3%$675102 Cresap Fac. Apt.WS,E,G,C$495$102.0%$505Birdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C$347$82.3%$355EGarage (2BR)WS,C$566$91.6%$575E,OCash House (3BR)WS,C$573$122.1%$585E,OBirdwood House (3BR)WS,C$626$142.2%$640E,O,GFaulkner PropertiesHolly House Upper (2BR)WS,E,O,C$430$102.3%$440Holly House Lower (1RM)WS,E,O,C$215$52.3%$220 PropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1995-96 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1996-97 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantHedge House (2BR)WS,C$418$71.7%$425E,OOrchard House (5RMS)WS,E,G,C$255$52.0%$260Carriage House (4BR)WS,C$487$81.6%$495E,G118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)WS,G,C$475$102.1%$485E118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)\*WS,G,C$500$102.0%$510E409 Valley Road, (2BR)C$430$102.3%$440WS,E,O411 Valley Road, (2BR)\*C$540$101.9%$550WS,E,G503 Valley Road, (1BR)C$350$51.4%$355WS,E,GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$102.2%$465Apt. 12, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$102.2%$465Apt. 14, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$102.2%$465Apt. 15, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$455$102.2%$465Apt. 21, (Eff)WS,E,G,C$320$51.6%$325Apt. 22, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$360$51.4%$365Apt. 23, (Eff)WS,E,G,C$305$51.6%$310Apt. 24, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$350$51.4%$355Apt. 25, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 26, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 27, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 28, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 31, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 32, (1BR)WS,E,G,C$370$51.4%$375Apt. 33, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$400$102.5%$410Apt. 34, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$400$102.5%$410Apt. 35, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$400$102.5%$410Apt. 36, (2BR)WS,E,G,C$400$102.5%$410E & G PropertiesMontebello, (3 BR/Garage)WS,E,O,A/C$549$112.0%$560CBig Morea (4 BR)WS,E,O,A/C$774$162.1%$790CLittle Morea (2BR)WS,E,O,A/C$597$132.2%$610CSunnyside (4BR)WS,E,O,A/C$1,268$272.1%$1,295CBrown College House(3 BR)WS,E,HVAC$704$111.6%$715CBuckingham PalaceWS,E,HP,A/C$325$51.5%$330C PropertiesUtilities FurnishedRents 1995-96 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1996-97 Per MonthUtilities Paid By OccupantPavilion IWS,E,HVAC$632$132.1%$645Pavilion IIWS,HP$466$91.9%$475EPavilion IIIWS,E,HVAC$632$132.1%$645Pavilion IVWS,HP$466$91.9%$475EPavilion VWS,E,HVAC$632$132.1%$645Pavilion VIWS,E,HVAC$632$132.1%$645Pavilion VIII LowerWS,E,HVAC$199$63.0%$205Pavilion VIII UpperWS,E,HVAC$404$61.5%$410Pavilion IXWS,E,HVAC$632$132.1%$645Pavilion XWS,HP$466$91.9%$475EBlandy FarmCurator's HouseWS$0$00.0%$0E,OFarmhouseWS$630$152.4%$645E,OGreen Farm HouseWS$65$00.0%$65E,OCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEHouses (6)WS$420$81.9%$428G,E2 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G$420$81.9%$428E1 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G$395$71.8%$402ECohen Housen/a$525$254.8%$550all

The asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been modernized.

Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system), A/C (window air conditioning), and C (cable TV).

APPROVAL OF PERPETUAL RIGHT-OF-WAY AND EASEMENT FOR CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED ON THE WEST SIDE OF EDGEMONT ROAD IN FRONT OF THE RESEARCH LABORATORIES FOR THE ENGINEERING SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated April 15, 1996, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the City of Charlottesville Gas Division, which dedicates to public use a strip of land 15 feet wide by approximately 300 feet long, located on the west side of Edgemont Road in front of the Research Laboratories for Engineering Sciences, and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF PERPETUAL RIGHT-OF-WAY AND EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA POWER ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY LOCATED EAST OF THE CAVALIER SUBSTATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated April 15, 1996, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the Virginia Power Company, which dedicates to public use a strip of land 15 feet wide by approximately 170 feet long, located east of the Cavalier Substation, and owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design for the construction of the Emergency Operations Center Project as illustrated on drawings titled:1. Site Plan (upper and lower level)2. Floor Plans (upper and lower level)3. Elevations (North, South, East, West) and Building Cross Section (Front to Back)dated March 11, 1996, and prepared by Hayes, Seay, Mattern & Mattern of Roanoke, Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project design shall be presented for review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF THE ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE GILMER HALL PHASE 2 RENOVATION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of CEGG Associates is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for programming the Gilmer Hall Phase 2 Renovation Project;RESOLVED FURTHER that at the option of the University administration, the Firm may later be retained to perform full architectural services.

APPROVAL OF THE REVISION OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FUNDING GUIDELINES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Funding Guidelines for the Allocation of the Student Activity Fee be and they are hereby revised and restated as follows:RESOLVED that the Student Activities Committee shall be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activity Fee. With respect to the purpose of an allocation from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President, the procedures shall be as follows:STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:The purpose of the student activity fee is to provide financial support for student organizations related to the educational purpose of the University of Virginia. As a mandatory student fee, the monies collected by the University for funding student activities are public funds which must be administered in a manner consistent with the educational purpose of the University as well as with state and federal law.STUDENT ACTIVITIES ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING:The Rector and Visitors have determined that activities of the student organizations in the following categories relate to the educational purpose of the University and thus are eligible for funding.1. Special Status Student Organizations charged by the Board of Visitors;2. co-curricular organizations which are not administered by University departments or units;3. club sports;4. student news, information, opinion, entertainment, or academic communications media groups;5. cultural organizations;6. fine arts organizations;7. Madison House;8. hobby organizations;9. non-political groups whose predominate purpose is to present speakers on topics of probable general interest to the University;10. the Student Legal Services; and11. service organizations.The Board of Visitors has determined that fraternities, sororities, honor societies, political organizations, religious organizations, and special status student organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for funds from student activities fees. An organization is also ineligible when membership is restricted by reason of age, citizenship, color, disability, gender, race, religion, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, or status as a disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam era. Notwithstanding these requirements, a student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. In determining cases of discrimination, it is not sufficient to look merely to the constitution of an organization but to its actual practices and operations.RESOLVED that notwithstanding any other provision of these Guidelines, political organizations shall be eligible for funding for activities that do not constitute lobbying or electioneering, to the same extent that other organizations are eligible for such funding. No student news, information, opinion, entertainment, or academic communications media group shall be deemed ineligible for funding on the grounds that the ideas or viewpoints expressed or advocated by such group are religious in nature or because such group primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief(s) in or about a deity or an ultimate reality.STUDENT EXPENDITURES AND ACTIVITIES NOT ELIGIBLE FOR FUNDING:The Board of Visitors has further determined that the following expenditures and activities do not relate to the educational purpose of the University and thus are not eligible for funding:1. honoraria or similar fees;2. religious activities;3. social entertainment or related expenses;4. philanthropic contributions and activities; and5. political activities; and6. activities which could jeopardize the University's tax exempt status.FUND ALLOCATION AND APPEAL PROCEDURES/PROCESS:The Student Activities Committee chaired by the designee of the Vice President for Student Affairs is charged with the authority and responsibility for supervision of the student activities fee fund. With respect to distributions from the fund, Student Council is responsible for allocations to eligible student organizations. The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations shall be the current balance in the student activities fees fund. The allocation process follows procedures established by Student Council which are intended to maximize the use of the funds and are consistent with the above guidelines. The Student Council Appropriations Committee is responsible for following these procedures and making the recommendations to the Student Council Representative Body on the funding requests. In providing student organizations with appropriations deemed needed, the Student Council Appropriations Committee shall be further guided by such criteria as the size of the group, the University wide benefit of the group's activities, and the group's level of financial self-sufficiency. The committee is encouraged but is not required to appropriate all of the available fund balance.The Appropriations Committee recommended allocation to a student organization may be appealed to the Student Council Representative Body by any student or student organization. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal for any budget reviewed and, in some cases, adjusted by the Student Council Representative Body. In addition, the Student Activities Committee may examine on its own motion any student organization's allocation request submitted to the Student Council.After the allocations are finalized, the Student Council Vice President for Student Organizations writes the chair of the Student Activities Committee requesting that the allocations for those funded organizations be released to the Student Activities Business Manager. When the Student Activities Business Manager receives the funds, they are deposited into a demand deposit account. Expenditures from the allocations can be made provided the student organization completes the proper authorization forms with the Student Activities Business Manager. (This procedure includes the student organization agreeing in writing that no monies from the fund will be expended for participation including the publishing or distribution of statements in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office.) The student organizations receive their allocation on a per semester basis for payment of expenses of activities conducted during the fall and spring semesters only.Any funded student organization alleged to be in violation of the above guidelines is subject to the suspension or loss of student activity fee funding after notice and an opportunity to be heard by Student Council. The Student Activities Committee is the next and final appeal body. The Guidelines for Student Activities Fund Allocation apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or are made after April 12, 1996.REFUND:An individual student who objects to the funding of particular speech activities may obtain a refund of a portion of his/her Student Activity Fee payment. The amount of the refund is established at the end of the spring semester for the next academic year. The refund will be in the form of a credit to the student's University account. Requests for the refund are to be submitted to the Student Activities Business Manager by a date announced at the beginning of each semester. The Student Activities Fee Fund shall reimburse the University for such refunds as are made by the University pursuant to these procedures.

STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE FUNDING GUIDELINES ATTACHMENT DEFINITION OF TERMSREQUEST FORM FOR A REFUND CREDIT Fall Semester, 1995STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE REFUND (Sample Fall 1995 Announcement
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that these definitions of terms are intended to provide clarification of the student activity fee fund guidelines. In those cases where further clarification is needed, Student Council and, if necessary, the Student Activities Committee will interpret the guidelines based on the facts presented and the Board of Visitors intent for the student activity fee.

Ability to Perform - A student organization may restrict membership based on ability to perform the activities related to the organization's purpose. For example, a student publication may make requirements based on writing skills. A club sport may restrict membership where selection is based on competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport thus resulting in a team of one or predominately one gender. Likewise, a choral group may restrict membership based on vocal range or quality which may also result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one gender.

Co-curricular Organization - A group which provides opportunities outside the classroom setting for students to apply classroom theory and/or to acquire knowledge, experience and/or skills.

Cultural Organization - An organization which is primarily concerned with studying, promoting, and/or expressing racial, ethnic, or affinity group traditions, social forms, art, and/or tastes.

Hobby Organization - A group which primarily pursues an activity for relaxation, recreation, or entertainment.

Political Activity - An activity related to: (1) lobbying the principal purpose of which is to influence the passage or defeat of specific legislation; and/or (2) electioneering which encompasses participation or intervention in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. These restrictions on funding political activities are not intended to preclude funding of any otherwise eligible student organization which: (1) advocates, as an incidental or insubstantial parts of its activities, the adoption or rejection of legislation; (2) engages in nonpartisan analysis, study, or research, and makes the results available to the public; or (3) espouses particular positions or ideological viewpoints, including those that may be unpopular or are not generally accepted.

Political Organization - An organization primarily involved with influencing legislation, the administration of governmental policy, and/or the election of candidates for public office.

Religious Activity - An activity which primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief(s) in or about a deity or an ultimate reality.

Religious Organization - An organization whose purpose is to practice a devotion to an acknowledged ultimate reality or deity.

Student Activities Committee - The University faculty/student committee charged by the Vice President for Student Affairs to provide oversight to the student activity fee fund and its allocation by Student Council.

Special Status Student Organizations - Student organizations which have University delegated functions to perform are termed special status. These groups which include but are not limited to Student Council, school councils, Bayly Docents, University Guides, and University Singers have a University department or a school responsible for each group relative to the delegated functions.

Student Council is a Special Status Student Organization charged by the Board of Visitors. The other Special Status Student Organizations receive their charge from a University department or school. Because of this relationship to a school or department and the concomitant funding available to the group, Special Status Student Organizations not charged by the Board of Visitors are ineligible for student activity fee fund allocations.

Student Organizations Eligible for Funding - Contracted Independent Organizations which have been Student Council qualified and comply with the Student Council appropriations process guidelines as well as the Board of Visitors Student Activity Fee Guidelines, plus Special Status Student Organizations charged by the Board of Visitors are eligible for student activity fee funding. Currently, Student Council is a Special Status Student Organization eligible for funding.

Date

Name (Print)

Local Address

I object to the Student Activity Fee funding of the following speech activity(ies):

For this reason, I am requesting a refund of $3.50 of my Student Activity Fee payment in the form of a credit to my University account.

Signature

A student who objects to the use of his or her Student Activities Fee payment to support particular speech activities may obtain a refund of $3.50 of that payment. The refund will be in the form of a credit to the student's University account. The request for a refund must be made in person by the student seeking the refund, by presenting his or her valid student identification card and a completed refund request form to the Student Activities Business Manager's Office in the Office of the Dean of Students, Peabody Hall, no later than 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, November 28, 1995.

EFFECTIVE DATE OF THESE RESOLUTIONS:

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the foregoing amendments to the Guidelines for Student Activities Current Fund Allocation shall apply to all student organization funding requests that are pending on, or made after, April 12, 1996.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 5:30 p.m.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: April 12, 1996

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Matthew W. Cooper

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, April 12, 1996 a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTE yes or noCOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesMortimer M. CaplinyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWarner N. DalhouseyesWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.yesT. Keister GreeryesMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesEvans B. JesseeyesArnold H. LeonyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesMatthew W. Cooperyes
