---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1997'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 13-14, 1997
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:30 a.m., on Friday, June 13, 1997, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mrs. Elsie Goodwin Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., on Friday, June 13, 1997, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., Mrs. Elsie Goodwin Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:50 a.m., on Saturday, June 14, 1997, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William-H. Goodwin, Jr., Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, APRIL 11-12, 1997
---------------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the meeting of April 11-12, 1997, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1- 344 A.(7) of the Code of Virginia.That the Educational Policy Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of matters related to contracts for services or work to be provided by state institutions of higher education, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(8) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of the condition, acquisition or use of real property for public purpose, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(3) of the Code of Virginia.That the Audit Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, as permitted by Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of the Code of Virginia.That the Health Affairs Committee of The Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing proprietary, business related information of the Medical Center in connection with its proposed joint ventures, and the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, when if made public initially the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRANCES MYERS BALL PROFESSORSHIP IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Frances Myers Ball, a resident of Charlottesville and a firm friend of the University, died in September, 1996; andWHEREAS, Mrs. Ball, among other generous benefactions to the University, left money for a professorship in Arts and Sciences;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors expresses gratitude for Mrs. Ball's generosity and hereby establishes the Frances Myers Ball Professorship in Arts and Sciences.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ARTS AND SCIENCES PROFESSORSHIP
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, an anonymous donor has provided funds for a chair to be named the Arts and Sciences Professorship; andWHEREAS, the donor wishes to honor Raymond J. Nelson, Dean of Arts and Sciences, by establishing the Professorship;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors thanks the anonymous donor for this generous gift, establishes the Arts and Sciences Professorship, and takes note of Dean Nelson's devoted service to the University as expressed in the donor's benefaction.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN ALDEN PURINTON JR., VISITING PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, John Alden Purinton Jr., a native of West Virginia, has been a resident of Charlottesville for many years and a staunch friend of the Darden School; andWHEREAS, Mr. Purinton was a Lecturer in the Darden School from 1962 to 1976; andWHEREAS, Mr. Purinton has made a generous gift to the Darden School to establish a professorship;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors thanks Mr. Purinton for his generosity and support and establishes the John Alden Purinton Jr., Visiting Professorship in International Management in the Colgate Darden Graduate Business School.

APPROVAL OF EXPANSION OF SCOTT STADIUM AND CONSTRUCTION OF A FOOTBALL FACILITY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University has experienced increased demand for season tickets to football games; andWHEREAS, Clinch Valley College has a successful football program but does not have an on-campus facility for football games and other activities; andWHEREAS, the Athletics Departments of the University and Clinch Valley College have prospects for substantial gifts in conjunction with the Capital Campaign; andWHEREAS, it is anticipated that there will be additional revenues generated for expanding athletic facilities;,RESOLVED that, subject to the availability of funds, the Board of Visitors authorizes the expansion of Scott Stadium, and will utilize its best efforts to conduct construction activities in a timely manner, including building a west stadium tower for a press box by the early fall of 1998, and adding 15,000 seats by the early fall of 2,000; andRESOLVED FURTHER that, subject to the availability of funds, the Board of Visitors authorizes the construction of a football facility at Clinch Valley College, and will utilize its best efforts to complete a playable surface for football by the early fall of 1998 and a 2000 seat facility by the early fall of 1999.

APPROVAL OF PLANNED GIFT ACCEPTANCE POLICY
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Planned Gift Acceptance Policy be approved (see Attachment A).

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT (VIRGINIA POWER) HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER PARKING GARAGE FOR 600 VEHICLES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated June 13, 1997, to Virginia Power to permit the relocation of utilities in support of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles project'across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT (CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE) HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER PARKING GARAGE FOR 600 VEHICLES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated June 13, 1997, to the City of Charlottesville to permit the relocation of utilities in support of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles project across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT (CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE GAS DIVISION) CHANCELLOR STREET-UNIVERSITY AVENUE INTERSECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated June 13, 1997, to the City of Charlottesville Gas Division to permit the extension of a gas transmission line at the Chancellor Street-University Avenue intersection across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT (CFW WIRELESS) FAN MOUNTAIN
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated June 13, 1997, to the CFW Wireless to permit access to their Fan Mountain installation across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY REPRESENTATIVE TO THE ART AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2.1-488.1 of the Code of Virginia, the Governor appoints five citizen members to the Art and Architectural Review Board; andWHEREAS, the Code provides that one member be appointed from a list of persons nominated by the governing board of the University of Virginia;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors nominates Judith A. Kinnard, Associate Professor in the School of Architecture, and Craig Barton, Assistant Professor in the School of Architecture, to serve as citizen members of the Art and Architectural Review Board.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS DESIGN REVIEW
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Procedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects policy was approved by the Board of Visitors on December 7, 1991; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Procedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects policy for accuracy and applicability and has determined that it requires substantive changes; andWHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the policy to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the number of design review stages has been reduced from four to three and the need for the Buildings and Grounds Committee to meet every other month no longer exists;RESOLVED that the Procedure for Involvement by the Buildings and Grounds Committee in Design Review of Capital Projects policy, dated December 7, 1991, be updated and superseded as follows:PROCEDURE FOR INVOLVEMENT BY THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE IN DESIGN REVIEW OF CAPITAL PROJECTS 1. The Buildings and Grounds Committee shall meet as required with the Architect for the University to review, at the Committee's discretion, any or all of the building projects currently underway, at each of the three stages of design identified by the Board of Visitors in its procedures. 2. A quorum of the Buildings and Grounds Committee will have the authority to grant approval to projects at all stages of their development with the understanding that projects identified by the Chair as being major and/or particularly sensitive will be brought to the Committee for its review and approval during a regular meeting of the Board of Visitors. 3. The Buildings and Grounds Committee will report all of its actions to the Board of Visitors at its next regular meeting; and the Buildings and Grounds Committee may instruct the Chair that it desires to review particular projects only at regular meetings of the Board. 4. Projects failing to win approval at any stage of design from the Buildings and Grounds Committee will be referred back to the Architect for the University for further development.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: USE OF THE ROTUNDA
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Use of the Rotunda policy was approved by the Board of Visitors on October 3, 1986; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Use of the Rotunda policy for accuracy and applicability and has determined that it requires substantive changes; andWHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the policy to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for review and revision; and policy;WHEREAS, current practice differs from the Board'sRESOLVED that the Use of the Rotunda policy dated October 3, 1986, be updated and superseded as follows:

ROTUNDA USE POLICY

While it is very important to regard the Rotunda as an active, working building, the building's special characteristics and historical significance dictate that its usage be carefully considered. There is heavy demand by University groups for the Rotunda facilities. The demand far outstrips the availability of space in the building. Several thousand visitors come to see the Rotunda in a typical month. Admissions officials arrange for prospective students to make their first official contact with the University in the Rotunda. Because of the irreplaceable and fragile nature of the Rotunda interior, it must be used in ways that will not shorten the useful life of the structure. A set of guidelines and regulations for the use of the Rotunda has been in effect since the restoration in 1976. The following represents a revision of these guidelines to become effective immediately:PROCEDURE FOR RESERVING SPACE IN THE ROTUNDA -- Reservations may be made by contacting the Rotunda Administrator. Reservations will be made in accordance with the guidelines set forth in this document, and in accordance with University regulations.GENERAL PRINCIPLES REGARDING USE -- Space in the Rotunda may be reserved for dignified occasions, within the guidelines, by University departments, groups primarily controlled by faculty, staff, or the Alumni Association, Student Council, recognized student groups, or University contracted independent organizations-. Assignment of spaces shall be content neutral. Because of the heavy demand, it will be the responsibility of the Rotunda Administrator to make the facilities available to as many requesters as possible, avoiding overuse by any group. The Rotunda will not be used for private parties (e.g. wedding receptions) nor will it be used for events requiring the collection of admission fees. The Rotunda is a smoke-free building.THE DOME ROOM -- The Dome Room is the most fragile of the Rotunda facilities. Of special concern is the heart pine floor, which is fragile and irreplaceable. Special care must be taken in the use of this room. Such events as seated dinners and lectures would be appropriate uses; however, cocktail parties, receptions, and dances are not permitted. Refreshments may be served only at seated meals.USE OF THE NORTH AND SOUTH PORTICOS -- Events that do not conflict with inside users may be held on the North or South Porticos of the Rotunda provided that they are dignified occasions and are in compliance with Lawn Use regulations. Alcoholic beverages may not be serviced on the Porticos while the University is in session. Reservations may be made through the Rotunda Administrator.SECURITY PROVISIONS -- The Dome Room and other Rotunda space may be used before and after the normal hours of operation only if official Rotunda personnel are present. Users will be billed for the cost of these employees on an hourly basis. A modest use fee will also be assessed. The use of candles in the Rotunda is restricted to oilless candles in the Dome Room during catered dinners. Candles are to be placed in holders on dinner tables. Candles are not to be carried when lit. Because of very limited fire escape routes, there is an absolute limit on the capacity of the Dome Room as set by the State Fire Marshal in conjunction with the University Safety Officer. For catered dinners, the maximum occupancy is 105 persons. For lectures, meetings, and similar functions, the maximum capacity is 140 persons.CATERING -- University Dining Services must provide and serve food and beverages for all Rotunda events.SPECIAL EQUIPMENT AND FURNISHINGS REQUIREMENTS -- Furnishings, tables, chairs, and heavy equipment will be moved only by qualified University employees trained to do this without hazard to floors, walls, stairs, and other furnishings. Heavy equipment such as pianos (except for lightweight electronic models and harpsichords) are not to be taken to the Dome Room.RESPONSIBILITY OF USERS -- Users will be required to agree in advance to pay for any damage done to the Rotunda as a consequence of their event. Users will also be responsible to avoid disturbing other users who may be assigned to other rooms in the Rotunda.VISITORS -- During the time the Rotunda is open to the public (usually 9 a.m. until 4:45 p.m.), Dome Room events will not normally be closed to the public. The oval rooms, if reserved, may be used for meetings to which the public is not invited. The public is not invited into the Rotunda after the normal closing hours.STUDENTS WISHING TO STUDY IN THE ROTUNDA -- Students are encouraged to use the alcoves in the Dome Room for study whenever the room is available during normal hours of operation, subject to normal regulation by the Rotunda Administrator.LUNCHEONS -- Except for official University-wide functions, the Dome Room will not be used for luncheons. Luncheons may be scheduled in the Lower West Oval Room.FREQUENCY OF USE (DOME ROOM) -- The Dome Room may be used for dinners no more than three times a week, and on an annual average of no more than ten times each month.ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL -- The columns, curved woodwork, and some of the antique furnishings require rigid humidity control. Even brief deviations from the specified humidity levels cause cracking and in some cases rapid deterioration. The Rotunda is equipped with an elaborate system for maintaining optimum temperature and humidity levels in all seasons. The system requires that all windows be kept tightly closed, and that all doors except the lower level entrance doors be kept closed. The glass doors overlooking the South portico should also be kept closed.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES LIBRARY BASEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND RENOVATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design for the Health Sciences Library Basement Development and Renovation as illustrated on drawings titled: 1. Lower Level Floor Plan 2. First Floor Plan 3. Second Floor Plan dated June 13, 1997, and prepared by Ayers/Saint/Gross of Baltimore, Maryland, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE STUDENT HEALTH CENTER ADDITION AND RENOVATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design for the Student Health Center Addition and Renovations as illustrated on drawings titled: 1. C1-2 Site Plan - New Work 2. Al-1 Ground Floor Plan - New Work 3. A1-2 First Floor Plan - New Work 4. A1-3 Second Floor Plan - Mechanical Room 5. A4-1 Building Elevations 6. A4-2 Building Elevations 7. A5-1 Building Sections dated May 16, 1997, and prepared by Tobey + Davis of Reston, Virginia, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN, CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors will continue consideration of the schematic design for the Campbell Hall Addition with an eye toward developing its visual compatibility with the University's Jeffersonian architecture. The Architect for the University will review the progress with the Buildings and Grounds Committee before the Board acts on the proposal to proceed with design development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING AND MEDICAL SCIENCE BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Henningson, Durham and Richardson of Alexandria, Virginia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: RESCINDING RESOLUTION ON CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Resolution on Classified Information was approved by the Board of Visitors on April 2, 1977; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Resolution on Classified Information for accuracy and applicability; andWHEREAS, on February 9, 1997, the Board of Visitors on the advice of the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred this resolution to the Educational Policy Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the Resolution on Classified Information relates to a kind of research in which the University no longer engages;RESOLVED that the Resolution on Classified Information approved on April 2, 1977, be rescinded.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: RESCINDING POLICY ON THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS IN MEDICAL RESEARCH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, a Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects in Medical Research was approved by the Board of Visitors on June 2, 1972; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects for accuracy and applicability; andWHEREAS, on February 9, 1997, the Board of Visitors on the advice of the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred this resolution to the Educational Policy Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, a new Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects was adopted by the Board on October 9, 1992, but the old Policy was not rescinded; andWHEREAS, the new Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects adopted on October 9, 1992, remains appropriate;RESOLVED that the Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects adopted on June 2, 1972, be rescinded.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: POLICY ON COMPENSATION FOR SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Policy on Compensation for Summer Employment was approved by the Board of Visitors on October 7, 1988; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the Policy on Compensation for Summer Employment for accuracy and applicability; andWHEREAS, on February 9, 1997, the Board of Visitors on the advice of the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred this resolution to the Educational Policy Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the Policy on Compensation for Summer Employment requires updating in order to comply with the lag pay plan adopted by the General Assembly; andWHEREAS, a temporary policy must be adopted for the summer of 1997 in order to provide for transition to the new lag pay employment dates;RESOLVED that the Policy on Compensation for Summer Employment adopted on October 7, 1988, be rescinded; andRESOLVED that the following Policy on Compensation for Summer Employment be established effective July 1, 1997: Faculty members employed on an academic year basis are salaried for a nine-month period. For 1997 only, such faculty may enter into additional employment agreements with the University for instruction and research purposes during the summer that provides for one week of overlap with the beginning of the salaried period for the fall semester. Beginning in the summer of 1998, the summer period will be defined for faculty employment purposes as the three months between the end of the spring semester and the beginning of the fall semester. The maximum compensation for full-time employment during the summer period shall not exceed 33% of the faculty member's academic year salary.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROXY VOTING POLICYUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROXY VOTING POLICY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Proxy Voting Policy was approved by the Board of Visitors on June 5, 1982;WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Proxy Voting Policy for accuracy and applicability and has determined that it requires substantive changes;WHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the Policy to the Finance Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the majority of the Policy relates to actions taken by the Proxy Advisory Committee, and the Proxy Advisory Committee no longer exists;RESOLVED that the Proxy Voting Policy dated June 5, 1982 be updated and superseded as follows:

1\. The Finance Committee, acting for the Board of Visitors, will normally vote on all proxy resolutions in the manner recommended by company management.2. The Finance Committee delegates to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer the authority to implement this Policy on its behalf.3. The Investment Subcommittee is authorized to direct the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to vote a specific proxy statement in a particular manner or as a general policy.4. From time to time, a University investment manager may recommend voting against company management on a specific resolution. Under such circumstances, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer has the authority to accept such a recommendation and vote accordingly, if it is deemed to be in the best interests of the University's endowment.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: POLICY ON REFUND TUITION, FEES AND ROOM AND BOARD CHARGESUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Policy on Refund of Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

School Week

Percentage Retained

Percentage Refunded

1

20

80

2

20

80

3

30

70

4

40

60

5

50

50

6

60

40

After 6

100

0

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Policy on Refund Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges was approved by the Board of Visitors on June 5, 1981;WHEREAS, a policy revision was approved on June 5, 1993WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the above-mentioned Policy on Refund Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges mentioned above for accuracy and applicability and has determined that it requires substantive changes;WHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the policy to the Finance Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the current Policy on Refund Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges does not include federal regulations passed in 1993;RESOLVED that the current Policy on Refund Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges be updated and superseded as follows:

Depending upon a student's status, one of three refund schedules for the refund of tuition, fees and room and board applies. The schedules (Institutional Refund Schedule, Federal Refund Schedule and Pro Rata Refund Schedule) ensure compliance with all federal regulations regarding Title IV federal financial aid.

In the event a student withdraws from the University and that individual is NOT a first-time student, the student will always receive the greater refund between the Institutional Refund Schedule and the Federal Refund Schedule.

Institutional Refund Schedule: Tuition and fees will be charged on a percentage basis, based on the school week during which the student withdraws. A school week is defined as the period beginning on Monday and ending on the succeeding Sunday. The first school week of a semester ("term") is defined as the week during which the general University Final Registration ends.

The schedule for allocation of Tuition and Required Fees between amounts retained and amounts refunded is as follows:

School WeekPercentage RetainedPercentage Refunded120802208033070440605505066040After 61000

Federal Refund Schedule: Any student receiving Title IV Federal Funds is subject to a federal refund schedule. Details of the required calculations are complex and available in either the Bursar's Office or the Office of Financial Aid to Students.

Again, the student is entitled, by law, either to the amount calculated by the Federal Refund Schedule or the Institutional Refund Schedule, whichever is greater.

Please note that before a refund is calculated under either method, the University is authorized first to offset it against any other amounts owed to the University.

Application of the Institutional Refund Schedule and the Federal Refund Schedule pertains only to tuition and fees. Room and board refunds are calculated separately, since the student signs a detailed contract for each.

In the event a student withdraws from the University and the student is a first-time student, the student's refund will be calculated according to the Pro Rata Refund Schedule, unless one of the other schedules provides a larger refund.

Pro Rata Refund Policy: A student who is attending the University for the first time (undergraduate, graduate or transfer); who is receiving Title IV financial aid; and who withdraws completely from the University will be eligible for a pro rata refund as follows: applicable tuition, fees and room and board charges will be pro-rated on a weekly basis for the first 60 percent of the semester. The Bursar's Office may deduct an administrative fee of $100, or five percent, of the applicable charges, whichever is less, before processing the refund. The actual percentage charged to the student in a given semester is determined by the last recorded date of attendance, as a percentage of the number of academic weeks within the semester. After 60 percent of the semester has passed, no refunds will be granted.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: REGULATIONS GOVERNING PAYMENT OF TUITION, FEES AND ROOM RENT ON A DEFERRED PAYMENT PLANUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Policy on Regulations Governing Payment of Tuition, Fees and Room Rent on a Deferred Payment Plan was approved by the Board of Visitors on October 26, 1973;WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the above-mentioned Policy on Regulations Governing Payment of Tuition, Fees and Room Rent on a Deferred Payment Plan for accuracy and applicability and has determined that current practice deviates substantially from the terms outlined in the policy;WHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the policy to the Finance Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, the University Treasurer no longer administers a payment delay program; and the University Bursar presently administers a payment delay program restricted to graduate assistants and veterans.RESOLVED that the policy entitled "Regulations Governing Payment of Tuition, Fees, and Room Rent on a Deferred Payment Plan" be rescinded and the attached Graduate Assistant and Veteran Payment Plan be adopted.

Graduate Assistant and Veteran Payment Plan

Graduate assistants (teaching and research assistants) and veterans are eligible for a special payment arrangement each semester. Eligibility for the program is subject to verification of status by and approval of the appropriate Dean's office in each of the schools.

Eligible graduate assistants and veterans may sign an agreement with the University permitting payment of tuition, fees and room rent charges on the following schedule:

Fall semester: 1/3 of charges for the semester are due on or before Wednesday of the first full week of October, onethird are due on or before Wednesday of the first full week of November, and one-third (final) payment must be made by Wednesday of the first full week of December.

Spring semester: 1/3 of the semester charges are due on or before Wednesday of the first full week of February, one- third are due on or before Wednesday of the first full week of March, and one-third (final) payment must be made by Wednesday of the first full week of April.

The penalty for failing to make a payment by the due date is $10.00 per installment that is overdue. Late payments can result in other actions for past due balances, including a hold on the student's official academic transcript. Actions for late or non-payment of amounts owed the University are outlined in the Graduate and Undergraduate Record.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997-98 BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences in an amount not to exceed $2.6 million for 1997-98, as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the deans of each school, and as approved by the Vice President and Provost, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, the President and the Finance Committee. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be divested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: RESOLUTION ON RESCINDING STUDENT PARTICIPATION POLICY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Resolution, "Directing the Continuation of Student Participation as Outlined in Resolutions of May 28, 1976, and October 14, 1976," adopted by the Board of Visitors on April 2, 1977, outlines procedures for student participation which are obsolete; andWHEREAS, since the 1977 Resolution was adopted, a Student Member of the Board is elected annually; all Board meetings, save those conducted in Executive Session, are open to the public; and leaders of student organizations are invited to meet with the Board; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors supports firmly the principle of the importance of student participation in the governance of the University; andWHEREAS, the President and the Vice President for Student Affairs, with the concurrence of the Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee will review agenda items prior to each Board meeting and will identify the items which have a direct effect on students;RESOLVED the Resolution, "Directing the Continuation of Student Participation as Outlined in Resolutions of May 28, 1976, and October 14, 1976," is hereby rescinded.

APPROVAL OF POLICY REVISION: APPROVAL OF STANDING POLICY ON ADMINISTRATION OF ATHLETICS AND THE ADVISORY COUNCIL ON ATHLETICS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, current administrative practices in the Department of Athletics are not consistent with those outlined in the resolution, "Revision and Reenactment of Standing Policy on Administration of Athletics and the Advisory Council on Athletics," adopted by the Board of Visitors on December 4, 1970;RESOLVED that the resolution of December 4, 1970, is hereby rescinded and that the following policy governing the control of the Department of Athletics be adopted 1. The responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of University Athletics Programs, who shall be appointed by the President of the University, subject to the approval of the Board of Visitors, and who shall be responsible to the President of the University through the Executive Vice President. 2. The faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general. That students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in intercollegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administration and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned. 3. An Advisory Council on Athletics be established, consisting of representatives selected by the President of the University from the Faculty, the Alumni Association, and the student body. One of the student members shall be the President of the Captains Council. The Chair of the Advisory Council on Athletics shall be designated by the President of the University.

APPROVAL OF THE FACULTY RETIREMENT PLAN
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, at the November 9, 1996 meeting, the Board of Visitors and the Finance Committee authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to amend the faculty defined contribution retirement plan to create a trust to hold funds in the plan to ensure compliance with IRS regulations; andWHEREAS, at the November 9, 1996 meeting, the Board of Visitors and the Finance Committee appointed the Investment Subcommittee as the Trustee of the faculty defined contribution retirement plan trust; andWHEREAS, the University is named Plan Administrator of the faculty defined contribution retirement plan, with responsibility for day-to-day operations delegated to the Chief Human Resources Officer;RESOLVED that the November 9, 1996 resolution is hereby amended removing the Investment Subcommittee as the trustee of the faculty 401(a) defined contribution retirement plan (the Plan) trust; the Investment Subcommittee is hereby delegated the authority to monitor the administration of the Plan on behalf of the Board of Visitors, including reviewing the fund families and the funds included in the Plan;RESOLVED FURTHER that the University is Plan Sponsor, Plan Administrator and Named Fiduciary of the plan;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized and directed to contract for the services of a corporate trustee or trustees in accordance with the provisions of this resolution; the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is further authorized to (1) form an administrative committee to assist the Investment Subcommittee in carrying out the duties above, and (2) engage outside consultants as needed to assist with the University's responsibilities as Plan Administrator and Named Fiduciary;RESOLVED FURTHER that the resolution delegating authority to the Chief Human Resources Officer to oversee and administer the Plan is hereby affirmed, with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Plan, including recordkeeping.

APPROVAL OF GUIDELINES FOR UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT LOANS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Guidelines for University Endowment Loans for the University of Virginia Foundation (Attachment B) be approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997-98 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1997-98 Budget for the Academic Division be approved, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997-98 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1997-98 Budget for Clinch Valley College be approved, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997-98 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, on June 10, 1995, the Board of Visitors delegated authority to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to approve capital expenditures from the Medical Center's capital fund in amounts of up to $1 million;RESOLVED that such authority of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to approve capital expenditures from the Medical Center's capital fund be increased to amounts of up to $2 million, effective July 1, 1997;RESOLVED FURTHER that the 1997-98 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase of 4.0 percent, be approved, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 1997-1998
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 19971998, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1991, the following members were elected to the Executive Committee of the Board to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1998:

Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, ChairFranklin R. BirckheadCharles M. Caravati, Jr.William H. Goodwin, Jr.C. Wilson McNeely, III

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES
----------------------------------

AUDIT COMMITTEE

Franklin K. Birckhead, Chair Champ Clark Terence P. Ross Henry L. Valentine, II

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

Albert H. Small, Chair Champ Clark William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. Kristine L. LaLonde James C. Wheat, III

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

Elizabeth A. Twohy, Chair John P. Ackerly, III T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLonde Terence P. Ross Walter F. Walker

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

Henry L. Valentine, II, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Charles M. Caravati, Jr. T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwin Holland Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Elizabeth A. Twohy

FINANCE COMMITTEE

William H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair Franklin K. Birckhead C. Wilson McNeely, III Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II Walter F. Walker James C. Wheat, III

HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair John P. Ackerly, III William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer, C. Wilson McNeely, III Albert H. Small

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

C. Wilson McNeely, III, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLonde Walter F. Walker

SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

Champ Clark, Chair William G. Crutchfield, Jr. T. Keister Greer James C. Wheat, III

INVESTMENT SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE

William H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair C. Wilson McNeely, III Henry L. Valentine, II James C. Wheat, III

THE AD HOC COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON POLICY REFORM

Champ Clark, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLonde

SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO REVISE THE MANUAL

Champ Clark, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees and Special Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1998.

AUDIT COMMITTEEFranklin K. Birckhead, Chair Champ Clark Terence P. Ross Henry L. Valentine, II BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEAlbert H. Small, Chair Champ Clark William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. Kristine L. LaLonde James C. Wheat, III EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEElizabeth A. Twohy, Chair John P. Ackerly, III T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLonde Terence P. Ross Walter F. WalkerEXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEHenry L. Valentine, II, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Charles M. Caravati, Jr. T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwin Holland Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Elizabeth A. TwohyFINANCE COMMITTEEWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair Franklin K. Birckhead C. Wilson McNeely, III Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II Walter F. Walker James C. Wheat, IIIHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEECharles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair John P. Ackerly, III William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer, C. Wilson McNeely, III Albert H. SmallSTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEC. Wilson McNeely, III, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLonde Walter F. WalkerSPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEChamp Clark, Chair William G. Crutchfield, Jr. T. Keister Greer James C. Wheat, IIIINVESTMENT SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEEWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair C. Wilson McNeely, III Henry L. Valentine, II James C. Wheat, IIITHE AD HOC COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON POLICY REFORM Champ Clark, Chair John P. Ackerly, III Elsie Goodwin Holland Kristine L. LaLondeSPECIAL COMMITTEE TO REVISE THE MANUALChamp Clark, Chair Franklin K. Birckhead Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all committees.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., reported on Gifts, Grants and Contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

The Board expressed its appreciation to Mr. Carl Smith for his gift of $25 million.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEERESOLUTION ON PAVILION I (adopted May 27, 1997)APPROVAL TO INVEST AN ADDITIONAL $1,908,200 IN BLUE RIDGE HEALTH ALLIANCE, INC. (adopted May 2, 1997)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Leonard Sandridge reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meetings of May 2, 1997, and May 27, 1997:

WHEREAS, part of the gallery of Pavilion I collapsed shortly before the start of the Commencement Exercises on May 18, 1997; andWHEREAS, spectators on and near the gallery were injured, one spectator subsequently dying of injuries sustained in this tragic accident; andWHEREAS, bystanders, members of local rescue squads, firefighters, police officers, and University staff responded instantly to this calamity, tending to the injured with skill and compassion;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors expresses its profound sorrow and sympathy to the victims, and the families of the victims, of this disaster, and expresses deep gratitude to all those who cared for the injured.

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors has received a request for an additional contribution of capital from Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., shareholders in order to maintain required reserve levels, as specified in the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc. Board of Directors' resolution dated April 17, 1997;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to invest up to an additional $1,908,200 in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc., to be matched proportionately by other current shareholders, per their equity interest in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO INVEST ADDITIONAL FUNDS IN BOARD-APPROVED VENTURES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to Virginia Code 23-77.3 and other provisions of law, the Virginia General Assembly has authorized the University investing in partnerships, joint ventures and other associations in order to promote the operations of its Medical Center and sustain the delivery of high quality medical care; andWHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer has previously been delegated general contracting authority on behalf of the University to procure goods or services in amount not to exceed $5 million dollars in any one year of the contract; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors believes like authority should be delegated to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to invest additional funds in said Board-approved ventures, partnerships and other associations, as may be necessary or advisable between meetings of the Board of Visitors.RESOLVED that, in consultation with the Rector and chairs of the Health Affairs and Finance Committees and review by the General Counsel, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer is authorized to invest additional funds in the aforesaid Board-approved ventures, not to exceed $5 million in any one year, as may be necessary or advisable between meetings of the Board of Visitors in order to safeguard the University's interests and maintain adequate capitalization; provided, any such transfer of funds shall be reported to the Board of Visitors at its next regular meeting;RESOLVED FURTHER, the foregoing should expire on December 30, 1998, unless extended by the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF SUMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 1997 through April 30, 1997, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:Ms. Melissa M. Appleyard as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Talbot M. Brewer as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. John D. Dillery as Assistant Professor of Classics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Richard T. Grenci as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Barbara J. Haley as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. William P. Irvin, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period May 1, 1997 through January 31, 1998.Mr. Shakeeb Khan as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Eugene B. Kolomeisky as Assistant Professor of Physics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Susan M. Laurie as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Karen M. McCollam as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Theodore E. Mifflin as Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, for two years, effective March 1, 1997.Ms. Anne E. Monius as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Karen S. Myers as Assistant Professor of Classics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Franny E. Nudelman as Assistant Professor of English, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Judith A. Perrotto as Assistant Professor of Clinical Radiology, for three years, effective May 1, 1997.Mr. Lin Pu as Associate Professor of Chemistry, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. P. Prabhakara Reddi as Assistant Professor of Research in Cell Biology, for the period March 1, 1997 through October 31, 1997.Mr. Oliver J. Semmes as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year, effective January 1, 1997.Ms. Barbara A. Spellman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Stanley C. Trent as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Sarah E. Turner as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Ravichandra N. Vancheeswaran as Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical, Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective May 1, 1997.Mr. Claes H. von Hofsten as Visiting Professor of Psychology, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Elizabeth G. Ward as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective February 16, 1997.Ms. Maureen R..Weiss as Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Jonathan H. Wright as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to Chairholders are approved as shown below:(a)Election of ChairholdersMr. John C. Bean as John Marshall Money Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, effective April 1, 1997. Mr. Bean will continue as Professor of Electrical Engineering, without term.Dr. Fabio Cominelli as David D. Stone Professor of Internal Medicine, effective March 1, 1997.Mr. W. Dean Harman as Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Professor, for two years, effective June 25, 1997.Mr. Joseph F. Rett as Commonwealth Professor of History,.effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Jerome J. McGann as University Professor, effective August 25, 1997. Mr. McGann will continue as John Stewart Bryan Professor of English, without term.Mr. Mark E. Parry as Robert F. Vandell Research Associate Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective June 1, 1997. Mr. Parry will continue as Associate Professor of Business Administration, without term.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott as Robert C. Taylor Research Professor, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Ms. Scott will continue as University Professor, without term.Mr. Haydn N. Wadley as Edgar A. Starke, Jr. Research Professor of Materials Science, effective April 1, 1997. Mr. Wadley will continue as Professor of Materials Science, without term.(b)Promotions of ChairholdersDr. Bruce G. Bat-man from Chairholder of the Mamie A. Jessup Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Mamie A. Jessup Professsor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Janine C. Jagger from Becton Dickinson Professor of Health Care Worker Safety and Associate Professor of Research in Neurosurgery to Becton Dickinson Professor of Health Care Worker Safety and Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders Deleted

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are promoted:Dr. Mark F. Abel from Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Orthopaedics, without term, and Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Michael D. Atchison from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Steven A. Balbus from Associate Professor of Astronomy to Professor of Astronomy, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. James P. Bennett from Associate Professor of Neurology, with term, and Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, with term, to Professor of Neurology, without term, and Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Martin E. Block from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. H. Robert Brashear, III from Associate Professor of Neurology, with term, and Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Neurology, without term, and Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Stephen H. Caldwell from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Susan J. Chaplinsky from Associate Professor of Business Administration, with term, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, without term, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Martin D. Chapman from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, and Associate Professor of Microbiology, with term, to Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, and Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Anita H. Clayton from Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Edward F. Connor from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Robert M. Conroy from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Sarah M. Corse from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Bernard J. Cosby from Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period December 1, 1996 through September 24, 1997.Mr. David B. Croll from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Thomas W. Crowe from Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period August 25, 1997 through June 30, 2000.Ms. Suzanne G. Cusick from Assistant Professor of Music to Associate Professor of Music, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Alan C. Dalkin from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Douglas W. DeSimone from Associate Professor of Cell Biology to Professor of Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Clay G. Dixon from Affiliate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, to Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Joanne B. Dugan from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Allen D. Everett from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for four years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Jessica R. Feldman from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Erik J. Fernandez from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Katherine W. Ferrara from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with term, to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without term, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Alastair D. Fowler from Professor of English, with term, to Professor of English, without term, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Gertrude J. Fraser from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. James C. French from Research Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Research Associate Professor of Computer Science, for the period August 25, 1997 through June 30, 1999.Dr. Henry F. Frierson, Jr. from Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Georgios B. Giannakis from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering to Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Linda A. Groner-Frederick from Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Federico Gonzalez-Fernandez from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, for four years, and Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Mary P. Griffin from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Paul S. Groner from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Richard Handler from Associate Professor of Anthropology to Professor of Anthropology, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. W. Dean Harman from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Mark L. Hartman from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Barbara G. Haskins from Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professsor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Doris M. Haverstick from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Timothy A.J. Haystead from Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Joanne M. Herbert from Research Assistant Professor of Education to Research Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Janet S. Herman from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Christopher H. Hoebeke from Affiliate Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, to Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Julia W.P. Hsu from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. John E. Humphries from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, and Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Shepard R. Hurwitz from Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, with term, to Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. James M. Jaeger from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Mary E. Jensen from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for four years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Robert G. Kelly from Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering to Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Susan E. Kirk from Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective February 1, 1997.Mr. Carl R. Knospe from Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. James D. Lechleiter from Assistant Professor of Neuroscience to Associate Professor of Neuroscience, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Mark Lee from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Hong Liu from Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Associate Professor of Radiology, without term, and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Ann B. Loper from Clinical Assistant Professor in the Curry Programs for Clinical and School Psychology to Clinical Associate Professor in the Curry Programs for Clinical and School Psychology, for one year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Kevin R. Lynch from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without term, and Associate Professor of Biochemistry, with term, to Professor of Pharmacology, without term, and Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Daniel F. McCarter from Assistant Professor of Clinical Family Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Franklin G. Miller from Assistant Professor of Medical Education to Associate Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Howard A. Montgomery from Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Kathryn A. Neeley from Assistant Professor of Technology, Culture and Communications to Associate Professor of Technology, Culture and Communications, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Mark D. Okusa from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Tejumola Olaniyan from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Robert A. Older from Associate Professor of Radiology, with term, and Associate Professor of Urology, with term, to Professor of Radiology, without term, and Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. George A. Overstreet, Jr. from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Harry L. Parlette, III from Associate Professor of Dermatology and Associate Professor of Otolaryngology to Professor of Clinical Dermatology, for three years, and Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Charlotte J. Patterson from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. John T. Philbrick from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Clifford D. Phillips from Associate Professor of Radiology, with term, Associate Professor of otolaryngology, with term, and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, with term, to Associate Professor of Radiology, without term, Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for one year, and Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Robert C. Pianta from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Marek-Jerzy Pindera from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Barbara T. Post from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Laurel W. Rice from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with term, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. James L. Riopel from Associate Professor of Biology to Professor of Biology, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Gregory B. Saathoff from Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Julianne J. Sando from Associate Professor of Pharmacology to Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Theresa A. Schlager from Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, without term, and Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Robert M. Sellers from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. John R. Shepherd from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Thomas C. Skalak from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Daphne G. Spain from Associate Professor of Planning to Professor of Planning, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Mark H. Stoler from Associate Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. William M. Sutherland from Associate Professor of Research in Cell Biology to Professor of Research in Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Scott A. Syverud from Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Michael P. Timko from Associate Professor of Biology to Professor of Biology, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Jonathon D. Truwit from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Robert F. Turner from Associate Professor, General Faculty, to Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. David L. Vander Meulen from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. J. Hoult Verkerke from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Patricia A. Wattenmaker from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Barbara B. Wilson from Associate Professor of Dermatology, with term, to Associate Professor of Dermatology, without term, effective July 1, 1997.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. L. Karla Arruda, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective February 28, 1997, for personal reasons.Dr. Christopher J. Bowden, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective April 1, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Paul L. de Souza, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective April 30, 1997, for personal reasons.Ms. Patty J. Hale, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Michael B. Ishitani, Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective February 28, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Hoyun Lee, Assistant Professor of Research in Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, effective January 31, 1997, to accept another position.Ms. Sharon E. Lock, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Raymond R. Ng, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective March 31, 1997, for personal reasons.Ms. M. Therese Seibert, Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective August 31, 1997, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Ms. Angelika S. Powell, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective May 31, 1997. Ms. Powell has been a member of the faculty since May 15, 1963.Dr. Michael R. Wills, Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1997.Dr. Wills has been a member of the faculty since December 1, 1977.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Melvyn P. Leffler as Dean, College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. C. Ray Smith as Interim Dean, Colgate W. Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, effective July 1, 1997, until the appointment of a new Dean.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Stuart W. Connock as Executive Assistant to the President for State Governmental Relations, for two years, effective April 15, 1998.Ms. Elva M. Holland as Director of Governmental and Community Relations, for three years, effective May 16, 1997.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Richard L. Jennings, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Michael R. Wills, Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. PAUL M. GASTON
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1997, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 12, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Professor of History, effective May 31, 1997. Mr. Gaston has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. SARA T. NALLE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Sara T. Nalle as Visiting Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1997, at an academic year salary of $60,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 12, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Sara T. Nalle as Visiting Professor of History, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE SALARY ACTION OF MR. ANDREW C. RUPPEL
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the salary action of Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel, Professor of Commerce, effective January 16, 1997, as shown in the Minutes of meeting of April 12, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel, Professor of Commerce, effective January 1, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. MARION RUST
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Marion Rust as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1997, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 12, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Marion Rust as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions: (i) the officer or employee and the immediate family member are engaged in teaching, research, or administrative support positions at the educational institution, (ii) the governing board of the educational institution finds that it is in the best interest of the institution and the Commonwealth for such dual employment to exist, and (iii) after such finding, the board establishes and oversees the implementation of reporting relationships and a supervisory structure to ensure that the officer or employee, or the immediate family member, does not supervise, evaluate or otherwise participate in personnel decisions regarding the other;WHEREAS, Ms. Karen R. Allen and Mr. Ralph O. Allen, who are married to each other, are both employees in the Office of Environmental Health and Safety;WHEREAS, Ms. Allen is a physical therapist in the Office of Environmental Health and Safety, of which Mr. Allen is the Director;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ Ms. Karen K. Allen and Mr. Ralph O. Allen in their positions as members of the Office of Environmental Health and Safety as physical therapist, senior and Director, respectively;RESOLVED further that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Ms. Allen's capacity as a member of the Office of Environmental Health and Safety, she reports directly to and is supervised by the Mr. Joel Loving, Hazardous Materials Officer, not the Director of the Office; and (b) Mr. Loving will report to Mr. David Hudson, Associate Vice Provost for Research, with regard to all personnel issues relating to Ms. Allen.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions: (1) the officer or employee and the immediate family member are engaged in teaching, research, or administrative support positions at the educational institution, (ii) the governing board of the educational institution finds that it is in the best interest of the institution and the Commonwealth for such dual employment to exist, and (iii) after such finding, the board establishes and oversees the implementation of reporting relationships and a supervisory structure to ensure that the officer or employee, or the immediate family member, does not supervise, evaluate or otherwise participate in personnel decisions regarding the other;WHEREAS, Drs. Phoebe Kaplan and Robert Dussault, who are married to each other, are both faculty members in the Department of Radiology in the School of Medicine;WHEREAS, Dr. Dussault is a member of the Division of Musculoskeletal Radiology, of which Dr. Kaplan is the Director, and Dr. Dussault is Vice Chair for External Affairs;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ Drs. Kaplan and Dussault in their positions as members of the faculty in the Department of Radiology, and as Director of the Division of Musculoskeletal Radiology and Vice Chair for External Affairs, respectively;RESOLVED further that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Dr. Dussault's capacity as a member of the Division of Musculoskeletal Radiology, he reports directly to and is supervised by the Chair of the Department of Radiology, not the Director of the Division; and (b) regarding Dr. Dussault's position as Vice Chair for External Affairs, there is no reporting or supervisory relationship between Dr. Kaplan and Dr. Dussault.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETEDREPORT ON THE ACTION TAKEN BY THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE ON APRIL 21, 1997
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are promoted:Mr. Christopher F. Achua from Associate Professor of Management and Marketing, Clinch Valley College, with term, to Associate Professor of Management and Marketing, Clinch Valley College, without term, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Thomas M. Costa from Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Amelia J. Harris from Assistant Professor of Modern Languages, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Modern Languages, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Sandra C. Richardson from Associate Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, with term, to Associate Professor of Education, Clinch Valley College, without term, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Brian S. Wills from Assistant Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1997.

Mr. Clark, Acting Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that the Committee approved the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan at its meeting on April 21, 1997. The Board had approved (see Minutes of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, dated April 21, 1997), the Plan on April 12, 1997, (see Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated April 12, 1997), subject to the Committee's further review and approval.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 p.m., on Friday, June 13, 1997, and at'10:50 a.m., on Saturday, June 14, 1997.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

absent

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Terence P. Ross

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Walter F. Walker

absent

James C. Wheat, III

absent

Kristine L. LaLonde

yes

Meeting Date: June 13, 1997

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 13

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE:4

ABSENT DURING MEETING:4

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, June 13, 1997, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business-matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting was called, was discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr.yesWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.yesT. Keister GreerabsentMrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesTerence P. RossyesAlbert H. SmallabsentElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesWalter F. WalkerabsentJames C. Wheat, IIIabsentKristine L. LaLondeyes

PLANNED GIFT ACCEPTANCE POLICYTable of ContentsPLANNED GIFT ACCEPTANCE POLICY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Introduction A. Purpose B. PhilosophyII.Planned Gifts Addressed by this Policy A. Types B. Common Aspects Applicable to all Deferred Gifts C. Charitable Remainder Trusts D. UVa Pooled Income Fund E. Gift Annuities F. Charitable Lead Trusts G. Life Insurance III. Related Planned Gift Policies A. Gift Annuity Policy Appendix I B. Real Estate Policy Appendix II

I. Introduction

A. Purpose

The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for development officers working with prospective donors interested in making a deferred gift to benefit the University of Virginia and its related foundations.

B. Philosophy

Through the Office of University Development and its Office of Planned Giving, the University seeks to encourage its alumni and friends to make deferred gifts which will provide financial support to meet the needs of the University and of its related foundations. The objective is to work with prospective donors to enable them to make a deferred gift that is consistent with their overall financial and estate plans. Because most planned gifts are relatively complex and irrevocable in nature, it is important to work with the donor's legal and financial advisors and to insure that disclosure about every aspect of the gift and its administration is made prior to closing the gift.

II. Planned Gifts Addressed by this Policy

A. Types

1\. Charitable Remainder Trusts

a. Annuity Trusts

b. Unitrusts

2\. Pooled Income Fund

3\. Gift Annuities

a. Current

b. Deferred

c. Commuted Payment

4\. Charitable Lead Trusts

5\. Life Insurance

B. Common Aspects Applicable to All Deferred Gifts

1\. Role of the Office of Planned Giving

The role of the Office of Planned Giving is to cultivate and solicit planned gifts for the University and its related foundations; lead negotiations of any planned gifts; serve as a resource to prospective donors, their advisors, and development officers; review the gift transaction to be sure that it is appropriate to the donor's objectives and situation; review the gift transaction to be sure that it is in keeping with University policies and procedures; and to maintain records of all planned gifts held by the University and its related foundations.

2\. Role of the School/Unit Development Officer

In order to insure that a planned gift is appropriate and consistent with policy, the school/unit development officer will notify the Office of Planned Giving when the officer has met with an individual whom he/she believes is a prospect for a planned gift. This notification may be in the form of a telephone call, e-mail, or contact report. Depending on the role that the development officer chooses to play, the Office of Planned Giving should be involved or informed of the information gathered; the selection of gift options prior to presentation to the donor in order to insure that they will accomplish the stated objectives using the proposed assets and that the gift options are based on sound analysis; the assessment of input from the donor's legal and financial advisors; and the execution of the gift transaction. Throughout this process, it is the development officer's responsibility to communicate that he/she is not able to provide legal or tax advice and that the prospective donor should see his/her advisors for this purpose.

3\. Disclosure

Each development officer is responsible for providing the donor with appropriate and full disclosure regarding an irrevocable gift transaction prior to closure. The objective is to insure that the prospective donor understands the nature of the planned gift. Depending on the gift vehicle, the development officer is responsible for providing the donor with written communication as to how the transfer of assets will occur, how the assets will be invested and administered, relevant performance data, how distributions of principal and income will be determined and paid, what type of reporting can be expected, and how fees are to be assessed and when they will be taken.

4\. Spousal Consent

Changes brought about under Augmented Estate rules in Virginia, New York, and other states may impact gifts made to charity without the consent of the spouse. As a result, it will be standard practice for the development officer, particularly when working with a planned gift, to seek written consent of the spouse of the prospective donor. This should be accomplished by adding a signature line to the gift agreement. Although an effort should be made to obtain this consent, the development officer should suggest, not require, that the spouse's signature be added to the gift agreement.

5\. Crediting and Recognizing the Planned Gift

All deferred gifts, whether revocable or irrevocable, should be reported to the Office of University Gift Accounting for recording on the University gift system.

a. Crediting Documented Irrevocable Deferred Gifts - Whether a gift is held by The Rector and Visitors, one of the University related foundations, or by an outside individual or financial institution, it will be credited and accounted for based on the published "Campaign Standards" of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) approved by the CASE Board of Trustees on April 18, 1994.

If The Rector and Visitors is not named as trustee, the Office of University Gift Accounting will record the gift through an entry to a deferred gift holding account without the corresponding general ledger accounting entry.

If The Rector and Visitors is named as trustee, the Office of Financial Analysis and the Office of University Gift Accounting will establish a "0- 69X= account on both the gift system and FAS (University General Ledger) until the trust terminates and the proceeds are distributed according to the terms of the trust agreement.

b. Crediting Documented Revocable Gifts - The University uses an approach that is more conservative than the CASE Standards when crediting revocable gifts such as bequests, gifts through retirement plans, and term (non paid-up) life insurance. When the donor states in writing or provides written documentation to show that he/she has made a bequest or has taken out a term life insurance policy to benefit the University or its University related foundations, the expectancy will be recorded at the current fair market value in the category of "Future Support." These revocable commitments are reported separately from the totals for the Capital Campaign and are clearly identified as "Future Support." These commitments are not recorded on the University accounting system, but are noted on the donor's gift record as expectancies.

c. Crediting Documented Irrevocable Expectancies - In some cases, a donor may wish to make permanent his/her revocable commitment. These gifts are normally gifts under will such as a bequest or a gift of retirement plan assets. To do this, the donor must provide written documentation of the gift designation, e.g., copy of the bequest language or copy of the beneficiary designation form and a written statement approved by the Office of Planned Giving to indicate that the commitment is to be considered irrevocable and should be treated as a debt of the donor's estate. These will be recorded as "Irrevocable Expectancies." These irrevocable expectancies are reported separately from the Capital Campaign totals and clearly identified as "irrevocable expectancies."

d. Recognition of Donors - Accounting for deferred gifts will be based on the face value and the present value of the donated assets. The Office of University Development will be liberal in its public recognition of deferred gifts and will publicly acknowledge gifts based on the value of the assets transferred, e.g., on the amount placed in a charitable remainder trust. Invitations to join various University or school/program gift clubs or societies, i.e., Lawn Society, may be extended to donors of irrevocable deferred gifts based on that group's membership criteria. All deferred gift donors (revocable and irrevocable) will be invited to join the Cornerstone Society. Since the gifts made through deferred vehicles do not affect the annual fund, these gifts will not be eligible to be counted toward membership in the Rotunda Society.

For donors who have provided for the University and/or its related foundations through a deferred gift but who have chosen not to provide documentation, these individuals will be invited to join the other documented deferred gift donors as members of the Cornerstone Society.

6\. Gift Agreements

The Office of Planned Giving will maintain specimen gift agreements, e.g., trusts, which have been approved by University Office of the General Counsel. These agreements will be made available to a donor's legal counsel to facilitate the gift transaction. The Office will maintain similar sets of documents for use with gifts to be held by the University of Virginia Alumni Association, and the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation, each having been approved by its respective legal counsel.

Before closing on a charitable remainder or lead trust, the Office of Planned Giving will provide a copy of the gift agreement to the Office of the Treasurer for review. If any substantive changes have been made to the specimen document, a copy will be sent to the designated representative from the University Office of the General Cornel for approval prior to execution by the donor. The Office of Planned Giving will also notify the Treasurer's Office of the anticipated transfer of assets, as well as the investment objectives of the donor (to facilitate appropriate asset management).

Immediately after assets are received for a gift annuity, the Office of Planned Giving will notify the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (UREF) and provide information needed to open an account.

7\. Record Keeping

The Office of Planned Giving will maintain an inventory listing all planned gifts established to benefit the University and its University related foundations. Development officers will provide the Office of Planned Giving with originals (in the case of The Rector and Visitors or the UREF) or copies (in the case of University related foundations) of all relevant gift agreements and valuation information as soon as is practicable after a deferred gift closing. The Office of Planned Giving will send an original gift agreement or a copy, as appropriate, to University Development's Central File; record the deferred gift in its Master File of planned gifts; and notify appropriate departments of the gift including: University Gift Accounting, Financial Reporting, Office of the Treasurer, Cornerstone Society, Stewardship, Faculty-Staff Campaign Director (when appropriate), and those units which have a beneficial interest in - the gift.

8\. Planned Gift Advisory Group

If questions arise as to the acceptability of a planned gift, the Director of Planned Giving will convene a conference with appropriate members of the Planned Gift Advisory Group. This group is comprised of the University Treasurer, the Associate Vice President for Development, the Assistant Vice President for Finance, and a representative designated by the Office of the General Counsel. Depending on the gift asset and/or the choice of vehicle, the Executive Directors of the University of Virginia Alumni Association and/or the University of Virginia Foundation may be asked to participate. Group members are to review the gift in question and make a recommendation to the Director of Planned Giving as to its acceptability which he/she can later document to the Executive Vice President. In cases where discriminatory terms are proposed by a donor, the development officer will consult the Office of the General Counsel. If there are suspicious circumstances which suggest inpropriety in the proposed gift, such as terms and conditions which lack fair or adequate consideration or information bearing on the competency of affected individuals, the Planned Gift Advisory Group will be convened to discuss the matter.

9\. Fees

a. For Administrative Services - In order to cover the administrative expenses associated with a life income arrangement or charitable lead trust, the trustee or contractor (in the case of a gift annuity) will assess fees consistent with policies approved by the Board of Visitors. The prospective donor will be made aware of the fees in the appropriate disclosure statement presented to the donor by the development officer prior to the gift closing. The fee will be taken from the principal portfolio of the account which is consistent with the Trust Fee Policy approved by the Board of Visitors on June 1, 1996.

b. For Investment Management - The management fees charged by subcontracted investment or fund managers will be charged against the income of the portfolio.

c. Donor Hesitation - In some unusual cases, a donor may refuse to complete the gift if fees of any type are to be taken from the corpus of the gift. Rather than allowing the prospective gift to fail for this reason, the planned giving officer will ask the proposed UVa beneficiary(-ies) (including University related foundations) if it/they will be willing to cover or share in the onetime and/or annual costs associated with accepting and managing the gift property. In rare cases where the beneficiary school/unit cannot or is unwilling to pay these costs, the University or the UVa Real Estate Foundation may choose to assume responsibility for these costs. The amount of these costs will be deducted from the plan at the time of distribution. The funding agreement will be documented and the planned giving officer will move to close the gift.

10\. Donor Legal Expenses

The University's policy is not to pay for any of the prospective donor's legal expenses or appraisal expenses associated with the gift transaction. Because there is an inherent conflict of interest, the prospective donor should be so advised of the policy. In some unusual cases where the donor refuses to cover the legal fees associated with the gift and it is likely that the gift may fail as a result, the development officer should do his/her best to negotiate fees to the lowest level possible and then ask the unit that is expected to benefit from the gift if it is willing to pay for the donor's legal expenses. If an agreement is reached, invoices for the legal services will be forwarded to that unit for immediate payment. The development officer will advise the donor in writing that payment of the legal expenses by the charitable organization constitutes a "quid pro quo" arrangement and that the Internal Revenue Service will expect that the amount of the charitable deduction taken by the donor for the gift will be reduced by the amount of the legal expenses paid in conjunction with the gift.

11\. Naming Opportunities

Naming opportunities are governed by the Names Committee Policy Statement. The University has the discretion over which existing unnamed buildings are available for naming opportunities. An irrevocable deferred gift may be used for this purpose. However, a deferred gift may not be used to name a proposed building since outright gifts are needed to provide for new construction. All policies and procedures with respect to review and approval by the Names Committee and the Board of Visitors will apply.

C. Charitable Remainder Trusts

1\. Acceptable Forms

a. Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust (CRAT)

b. Charitable Remainder Unitrusts (CRUT)

1) Standard (CRUT)

2) Net Income (NICRUT)

3) Net Income Plus Makeup (NIMCRUT)

2\. Funding Minimum: $50,000

3\. Additions

Additions may be made to a charitable remainder unitrust at any time by a letter of instruction. The minimum amount for an addition is $10,000. By law, additions cannot be made to a charitable remainder annuity trust.

4\. Funding Assets

The charitable remainder annuity trust and all forms of the charitable remainder unitrust may be funded with readily marketable securities. If the assets are not readily marketable, e.g., real estate, closely held stock, the net income unitrust or the net income plus makeup unitrust must be used. In cases where there are both readily marketable assets and illiquid assets available to fund the trust, the planned giving officer will discuss the situation with the Office of the Treasurer and will make recommendations to the donor on the basis of that discussion. In any case, it is the University's preference that a net income unitrust not include a makeup provision.

5\. Trusteeship

In the gift negotiation process, the prospective donor will be given all of the options regarding choice of trustee including The Rector and Visitors, a corporate trustee, an individual trustee, and self-trusteeship. If the individual expresses an interest in the University serving as trustee, the donor must name The Rector and Visitors as trustee. The only exception is if the trust is to benefit the University of Virginia Alumni Association. In that case, the University of Virginia Alumni Association will be named as trustee. In certain situations, a University related foundation may serve as trustee but the foundation trustee must adhere to the University's policies governing gift acceptance, crediting, and accounting. The development officer working on behalf of the University related foundation will send a copy of the trust agreement to the Office of Planned Giving as soon as is practicable after closing. Regardless of beneficiary, when real estate is proposed as a funding asset, the donor will be advised to name the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation as trustee, with either The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia or the University of Virginia Alumni Association serving as successor trustee.

a. The Rector and Visitors

1) Investment Management - The Office of the Treasurer will invest the trust assets in one or more of the funds within the University's Consolidated Endowment. If use of the funds is inappropriate for the investment objectives or for the assets used to fund the trust, the Office of the Treasurer will use other investment vehicles to accomplish the objectives.

2) Administration - The Office of the Treasurer will select an organization to provide the administrative services to the trusts for which it serves as trustee. Currently, Fiduciary Trust Company International provides services which include custody of assets, trust accounting, statement rendering, check issuance, and tax return preparation, tax reporting, and compliance with the Internal Revenue Service regulations.

b. University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (UREF)

1) Investment Management - The UREF appointed the Office of the Treasurer at the University of Virginia to serve as its agent in investing its non- real estate trust assets. These assets will be invested as stated in Paragraph II., C., 5., a., 1).

2) Administration - The UREF may handle all or part of the administrative services associated with the management of its trust accounts, or it can use its discretion to appoint an agent to provide the services needed.

c. University of Virginia Alumni Association (UVA FUND)

1) Investment Management - The Alumni Association currently uses Davenport and Company, LLC as its agent to serve as custodian and investment manager of its trust assets.

2) Administration - The Alumni Association may handle all or part of the administrative services associated with the management of trust accounts, or it can use its discretion to appoint an agent to provide the services needed.

6\. Payout Rates

a. The development officer may discuss payout rates that are in the 5-7% range with prospective donors. The 7% option is based on the return of the long term U.S. Treasury Bond. This rate may be adjusted from time to time. Given the interplay between payout rate, investment assumptions, and the ages of the beneficiaries, the development officer should be mindful that gift plan projections should show that the projected value upon termination of the trust is at least 100% of the funding value of the gift in trust.

b. Higher payout needs/requests will be considered by the Planned Gift Advisory Group but will be treated as exceptions to policy. The development officer will submit "exception to policy" requests in writing to the Director of Planned Giving who will seek review by the Planned Gift Advisory Group. The recommendation of the Planned Gift Advisory Group will be submitted to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University who will exercise his/her discretion in making the final payout decision.

7\. Beneficiaries

a. Income Beneficiaries - One or more income beneficiaries may be named in the trust agreement. The development officer must be mindful of how these additional beneficiaries impact the projected remainder as discussed in II., C., 6. above.

b. Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries - Charitable remainder beneficiaries may include one or more units within the University, including the University related foundations. Should the donor wish to include one or more non-UVa but qualified charities as charitable remainder beneficiaries, it is possible to do so as long as the University's beneficial interest (including University related foundations) amounts to at least 51% of the remainder of the trust.

8\. Disclosure

Prior to executing a charitable remainder trust on which The Rector and Visitors is to serve as trustee, the development officer must provide the donor with the charitable remainder trust disclosure statement. The development officer is responsible for reviewing the statement with the prospective donor to insure that he/she understands how the trust is to be invested and administered by the University.

9\. Reporting to Donors Each donor will receive a statement of account, at least annually, from the trustee or its agent. The accounting will include a portfolio summary and transaction summary.

D. UVa Pooled Income Fund (PIF)

1\. Funding Minimum: $5,000

2\. Additions

Additions may be made in increments of $1,000 or more with a letter of instruction from the donor.

3\. Funding Assets

Only readily marketable securities or cash may be used to make a gift to the PIF. Federal law prohibits the acceptance of tax-exempt securities for the PIF.

4\. Trusteeship

The trustee of the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund is currently Fiduciary Trust Company International.

a. Investment Management - Investment objectives for the PIF are determined by the Office of the Treasurer after discussion with the Office of Planned Giving. The Office of the Treasurer conveys these objectives to the trustee which invests the trust's assets to meet the stated investment objectives. Presently, the trustee chooses to meet these objectives through investments in a variety of common trust funds. The Office of the Treasurer monitors the performance of the trustee of the PIF.

b. Administration - Fiduciary Trust Company International administers the PIF. It calculates the principal and income values, accepts gifts, prepares calculations for donors, prepares and mails participant checks on a quarterly basis, renders statements, prepares annual reports for the participants, prepares the fiduciary tax return, insures compliance with the terms of the trust document, and performs duties associated with tax reporting to donors.

5\. Disclosure

As the donor is preparing to execute the PIF gift agreement, the development officer must provide the donor with a copy of the PIF trust agreement and its amendments, as well as a disclosure statement. The gift agreement asks the donor to verify that he/she has read and understands the trust agreement.

6\. Payout Rates

The payout guidelines are communicated to the trustee by the Office of the Treasurer. Currently, the desired income objective is to maximize annual yields consistent with the rate of the long-term U.S. Treasury Bond less fees.

7\. Beneficiaries

a. Income Beneficiaries - One or more income beneficiaries may be named in the gift agreement. The development officer must be mindful of how these additional beneficiaries impact the projected remainder as discussed in II., C., 6. above.

b. Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries - Charitable remainder beneficiaries may only include the University, its units, and its related foundations. Outside charities may not be included as beneficiaries under the PIF.

8\. Reporting

The trustee is expected to provide the Office of the Treasurer and the Office of Planned Giving with quarterly reports on the trust's investments as well as an updated value on the units of participation. The trustee is expected to provide the annual report required to all participants.

E. Gift Annuities

1\. Acceptable Forms

The development officer may offer immediatelcurrent charitable gift annuities, deferred charitable gift annuities, and commuted payment (or college) gift annuities.

2\. Funding Minimum

Minimums may vary depending on whether the annuitants live in the Commonwealth of Virginia, another unrestricted state, or in a restricted state. A state is classified as restricted if it requires very conservative investment of at least a portion of the gift. Policies are outlined in the attached "Gift Annuity Policy" (Appendix I) approved by the Board of Visitors in its September, 1996 meeting. By law, additions cannot be made to a gift annuity.

3\. Funding Assets

A gift annuity may be funded only with readily marketable securities or cash (no real estate).

4\. Contractor

Given the complexities of individual state registration and investment requirements, the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (UREF) will serve as the sole contractor of gift annuities for all entities of the University of Virginia, including University related foundations.

5\. Investment Management

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation appointed The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as its agent for purposes of investment management. The Office of the Treasurer will invest the annuity assets with the approval of the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors.

a. Regulatory Requirements - Because of the regulatory investment requirements of various states, the UVa Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the various reserve requirements and investment restrictions. In all cases, the Foundation will meet all state requirements and will obtain all permits required to offer gift annuities under applicable state law. The Office of Planned Giving will maintain its membership in the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) and will forward all relevant information from the ACGA to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation, along with any related correspondence.

b. Fees - In accordance with the "Gift Annuity Policy" (Appendix I), all reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool. Prospective gift annuity donors are to be informed of the fees in the gift annuity disclosure statement provided to the individual prior to gift closing.

c. Liabilities Incurred - Although highly unlikely, it is possible that an annuitant may outlive his/her life expectancy. Since the obligation of the contractor is usually to provide income for the annuitant's lifetime, the annuity account may be reduced significantly or even depleted. In these cases, the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation, through the Office of Planned Giving, will require the designated remainder beneficiary (unit, school, or University related foundation) to provide whatever funds are necessary to complete the contract. This plan is based on the assumption that the remainder beneficiary is also expected to benefit from distributions from other annuities where the plan terminated earlier than projected, or where investment performance was particularly strong for the investment period.

6\. Administration

The UVa Real Estate Foundation may administer the annuity program or it may appoint an outside firm to perform the administrative responsibilities.

7\. Payout Rates

The development officer may quote payout rates that are consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. These rates vary depending on the age(s) of the income beneficiaries and are adjusted periodically by the ACGA.

8\. Beneficiaries

a. Income Beneficiaries - A maximum of two income beneficiaries may be named in the gift annuity contract.

b. Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries - Charitable remainder beneficiaries may include one or more units within the University, including University related foundations. Non-UVa charities cannot be including as beneficiaries under a gift annuity contract.

9\. Disclosure

Prior to executing a gift annuity contract, the development officer must provide the prospective donor with the gift annuity disclosure statement provided by the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation. The development officer will be responsible for reviewing the disclosure statement with the donor to insure that he/she understands how the contract will be invested and administered.

F. Charitable Lead Trusts

1\. Acceptable Forms

a. Charitable Lead Annuity Trust (CLAT)

b. Charitable Lead Unitrust (CLUT)

2\. Funding Minimum: $500,000

3\. Additions

Additions may be made to the charitable lead unitrust at any time through a letter of instruction from the donor. The minimum amount for an addition is $50,000. By law, additions cannot be made to a charitable lead annuity trust.

4\. Funding Assets

The charitable lead trust may be funded with readily marketable securities and/or cash.

5\. Trusteeship

In the gift negotiation process, the prospective donor will be given all of the options regarding choice of trustee including The Rector and Visitors, a corporate trustee, an individual trustee, and self-trusteeship. If the individual expresses an interest in the University serving as trustee, the donor must name The Rector and Visitors as trustee. The only exception is if the trust is to benefit the University of Virginia Alumni Association and then the recommendation will be for the Association to serve as trustee. A University related foundation may serve as trustee but it must adhere to all University policies with respect to gift acceptance; crediting, and accounting.

6\. The Rector and Visitor as Trustee

a. Investment Management - The Office of the Treasurer will invest the trust assets in one or more of the funds within the University's Consolidated Endowment. If use of the funds is inappropriate for the investment objectives or for the assets used to fund the trust, the Office of the Treasurer will use other investment vehicles to accomplish the objectives.

b. Administration - The Office of the Treasurer will select an organization to provide the administrative services to the trusts for which it serves as trustee. Currently, Fiduciary Trust Company International provides services which include custody of assets, statement rendering, check issuance, and tax return preparation, tax reporting, and compliance.

7\. Payout Rates

The development officer may discuss any payout rate allowable by law with a prospective donor. Normally, the payout range will be between 1% and 15%.

8\. Beneficiaries

a. Income Beneficiaries - One or more units of the University and its related foundations may be named as income beneficiaries in the trust agreement.

b. Non-charitable Remainder Beneficiaries - Non-charitable remainder beneficiaries may include the donor, children, grandchildren or others.

9\. Disclosure

Prior to executing a charitable lead trust for which the University is to serve as trustee, the development officer must provide the donor with the disclosure statement for charitable trusts. The development officer is responsible for reviewing the statement with the prospective donor to insure that he/she understands how the trust is to be invested and administered by the University.

G. Life Insurance

1\. Acceptable Forms

a. Paid-up Policies - These are whole life, universal or variable policies taken out by an individual who has since completed all required premium payments and now wishes to donate the policy to the University. The policy has a cash surrender value and a death benefit attached to it, although in some cases these values may be reduced by existing loans taken out against the policy. If the donor names The Rector and Visitors as owner and beneficiary of the policy, it would be an irrevocable gift.

b. Partially Paid-up Policies - These are whole life or variable policies taken out by an individual who paid some of the premiums required to keep the insurance in force but who either: 1) no longer plans to continue paying the premiums; or 2) wants to give the policy to The Rector and Visitors, i.e., name it owner and beneficiary, but the donor will continue to pay the premiums to keep the policy in force. These policies have cash surrender and death benefit values, less the amount of any outstanding loans. If the donor names The Rector and Visitors as the owner and beneficiary of the policy, it would be an irrevocable gift.

c. New Policies in Which The Rector and Visitors is Named Owner and Beneficiary - An individual may wish to take out a term, whole life, or universal/variable term life insurance policy with the objective of making a gift to the University. In these cases, the donor would name The Rector and Visitors of the University as the owner and beneficiary. The donor can either pay the premiums directly to the insurance company, or contribute the premium amount to The Rector and Visitors which will, in turn, pay the premium amount required to the insurance company. Given that premium costs of term insurance may be prohibitively expensive for a donor after a number of years, gifts of whole life and universal/variable policies would be preferred. A gift of this type of policy would be an irrevocable gift.

d. Policies in Which The Rector and Visitors is Named Beneficiary (But Not Owner) - For a variety of reasons, the ownership of some insurance policies cannot be changed. However, the individual may designate a charitable beneficiary. There are three types of policies and a gift of this type of policy would be a revocable deferred gift (because the incidents of ownership are retained).

1) Individual - where an individual is the insured and premiums are paid by an individual or corporation; and

2) Group - where term insurance is offered to the employees of an organization based on salary or on some other compensation based formula. These policies normally remain in force only as long as the individual continues to be employed by the company. Note: In some cases the company will change ownership on group life. Individuals will be encouraged to designate the University as a beneficiary. A gift of this type is a revocable gift.

3) Charitable Award Programs - are programs designed to reward service on corporate boards through nonmonetary means. Some organizations give their directors the chance to name one or more charitable beneficiaries of a life insurance policy that the corporation maintains on its board members. In most cases, the corporation reserves the right to discontinue the program or to restructure it any time. This is an example of a revocable gift.

2\. Policy Minimum: None

3\. Ownership and Beneficiary Designations

To make an irrevocable gift of life insurance to benefit a school/unit of the University, the donor must name The Rector and Visitors as owner and beneficiary of the policy. The donor may also further direct that the proceeds are to be distributed or held for the benefit of a specific school, program or fund at the University. Donors may also name a University related foundation as owner and beneficiary. In some cases, the University related foundation may prefer that The Rector and Visitors handle the administration of gifts of life insurance.

4\. Investment Management

In cases where the policy is paid up or if the donor intends to discontinue premium payments, the planned giving officer will review the terms of the policy, its funding status, and the cash surrender value with the Treasurer and the school/unit development officer involved and reach consensus about whether the policy should remain in force and how additional premiums are to be made.

5\. Crediting Gifts of Life Insurance

a. Paid-up Policies - When a donor makes an irrevocable gift of a paid-up life insurance policy, the cash surrender value (CSV), will be credited as a cash gift and counted toward the Capital Campaign. The difference between the CSV and the face value (death benefit) of the policy will be credited toward the Future Support goal of the Campaign.

b. Partially Paid-up Policies - When a donor makes an irrevocable gift of a partially paid-up insurance policy, the cash surrender value (CSV) will be credited as a cash gift and counted toward the Capital Campaign. Additional premiums paid would be treated as additional cash gifts to the Campaign. The difference between the CSV and the face value (death benefit) of the policy will be credited toward the Future Support goal of the Capital Campaign and adjusted as additional premiums are paid.

c. New Policies - Gifts of the amount of the premiums needed to keep new insurance in force will be treated as cash gifts and credited toward Capital Campaign totals. The difference between the premiums paid and the face value (death benefit) of the policy will be credited toward the Future Support goal and adjusted as additional premiums are paid.

d. Revocable Life Insurance Policies - The revocable life insurance policies described in II., G., 1., d. above will be counted toward the Future Support goal.

APPENDIX IGIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS RESIDING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIAGIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN RESTRICTED STATESGIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN UNRESTRICTED STATES OTHER THAN VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities.

Funding Minimum:

$5,000

Minimum Age at First Payment

60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December

Distribution of Beneficiaries

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

Approval of States:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states which will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $300,000 minimum level.

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities

Funding Minimum:

Age(Years)Minimum60-69$65,00070-79$35,000 >80 $15,000

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$65,000

70-79

$35,000

\>80

$15,000

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$65,000

70-79

$35,000

\>80

$15,000

Minimum Age at First Payment

60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("Tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December.

Distribution of Beneficiaries

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$65,000

70-79

$35,000

\>80

$15,000

Approval of States:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states which will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $100,000 minimum level.

Acceptable Forms:

Current, deferred, and cummuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities

Funding Minimum:

Age(Years)Minimum60-69$20,00070-7915,000>8010,000

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$20,000

70-79

15,000

\>80

10,000

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$20,000

70-79

15,000

\>80

10,000

Minimum Age at First Payment

60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the University

Income Beneficiaries:

Up to two income beneficiaries

Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries:

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, only

Payout Rates:

Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("Tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.

Timing of Annuity Payments:

On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December.

Distribution of Beneficiaries:

Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligation

Contractor:

University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation

Investment Management:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.

Compliance:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.

Administration:

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.

Fees:

All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

Age(Years)

Minimum

60-69

$20,000

70-79

15,000

\>80

10,000

GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS RESIDING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIAAcceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuities.Funding Minimum:$5,000Minimum Age at First Payment60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the UniversityIncome Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder BeneficiariesThe Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions and adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and DecemberDistribution of BeneficiariesDistribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligationContractor:University of Virginia Real Estate FoundationInvestment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN RESTRICTED STATESApproval of States:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states which will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $300,000 minimum level.Acceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and commuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuitiesFunding Minimum:Age(Years)Minimum60-69$65,00070-79$35,000 >80 $15,000Minimum Age at First Payment60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the UniversityIncome Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder BeneficiariesThe Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("Tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December.Distribution of BeneficiariesDistribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligationContractor:University of Virginia Real Estate FoundationInvestment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

GIFT ANNUITY POLICY FOR ANNUITANTS IN UNRESTRICTED STATES OTHER THAN VIRGINIAApproval of States:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation is responsible for the approval of states which will offer charitable gift annuities. New states should not be entered without the expectation that the program in that state will reach and maintain a $100,000 minimum level.Acceptable Forms:Current, deferred, and cummuted ("tuition") payment charitable gift annuitiesFunding Minimum:Age(Years)Minimum60-69$20,00070-7915,000>8010,000Minimum Age at First Payment60 years or, for commuted payment annuities, a maximum of 26 years to expected final payout to the UniversityIncome Beneficiaries:Up to two income beneficiariesCharitable Remainder Beneficiaries:The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and University of Virginia related foundations, onlyPayout Rates:Consistent with, or lower than, the rates published by the American Council on Gift Annuities (ACGA) that are in effect at the time of the gift. Commuted payment ("Tuition") gift annuity rates will be based on the ACGA assumptions, adjusted for the deferral.Timing of Annuity Payments:On the last day of each calendar quarter, March, June, September and December. Distribution of Beneficiaries:Distribute the remainder value of the annuity account at the end of the obligationContractor:University of Virginia Real Estate FoundationInvestment Management:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will appoint The Rector and Visitors as its agent for purposes of investment management. The primary investment objective is to comply with the state regulations governing gift annuity contracts. The secondary objective is to provide for the growth in assets held in the annuity account. Unrestricted assets will generally be invested in the University's Growth & Income Fund. Restricted assets will be invested in the University's Bond Fund. Other investment vehicles are available as outlined in the University's guidelines for Trust Funds.Compliance:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will insure that it is in compliance with the regulations governing charitable gift annuities in each state.Administration:The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will administer or contract for the administration of the gift annuity program.Fees:All reasonable investment management and administrative fees will be assessed to the gift annuity pool.

APPENDIX II UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Real Estate Gifts PolicyIII. Donor RelationsIV. Transaction ProcessV. Follow-Up
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Purpose of Real Estate Gifts Policy

The University of Virginia's Real Estate Gifts Policy covers issues related to accepting gifts which benefit the University of Virginia. The policy is intentionally brief so as to focus on the more salient issues related to cultivating, accepting, maintaining and disposing of real estate gifts. It is the desire of the University of Virginia that real estate intended to benefit it or its related foundations be given to the University of Virginia Foundation's real estate arm, the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (UREF). Once the real estate is liquidated, proceeds normally will be transferred to the University of Virginia, or one of its related foundations.

II. Internal Operations

Notification Process of Potential Gift

When a potential gift of real estate, outright or deferred, first comes to the attention of the University or one of its University-related foundations, the Planned Giving Office will be notified and given the opportunity to review the suitability of the asset for gifting purposes prior to the commencement of the due diligence process. This office will coordinate communications concerning the acceptance of the property within the University community and can assist in the solicitation and acceptance process.

Coordination Between UREF and UVA

The University Development Office, or the school/unit which is involved with a prospective gift, is responsible for all contacts with the donor and for notifying University personnel of the potential gift. Performance of due diligence will be managed by UREF. So as to not confuse donors and to reduce the number of University persons with whom donors must interact, UREF will work through the University Development Office or appropriate foundation, instead of working directly with the donors, in the management of its review.

UREF Management of Real Estate Gifts

All gifts should be made to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation (UREF). This foundation's purpose is to accept and manage properties on behalf of the University of Virginia. After a property has been deeded to UREF, UREF ensures that the property is managed properly, including paying annual taxes and property insurance, maintaining landscaping/facilities, renting the property, etc.

Pro-forma of Estimated Transaction and Carrying Costs, and Marketability

As a part of the due diligence process, UREF will develop a pro forma showing the estimated cost to receive, maintain, and dispose of the property. This pro forma, in addition to an analysis of the marketability of the property, is a crucial part of the due diligence process. Normally, it will be UREF's intention to sell properties as soon as possible. If it is determined that a property will not sell within a reasonable amount of time, or if the sales price will be significantly different from the donor's appraised value, the Foundation may choose not to accept the gift. Donors will receive an estimate of all transaction costs to accept, manage, and dispose of the property. This estimate would include those costs determined as necessary by UREF to put and keep the property in a condition to be marketed. The estimate will detail which costs would be customarily paid by UREF and which costs would be customarily paid by the donor as part of the transaction.

Minimum Review Time for Gifts

The due diligence process will take, at a minimum, 90 days. This means that the due diligence process for gifts must begin prior to October 1 if gifts are to be received in any calendar year. The 90-day minimum review period will not be accelerated unless the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University directs the Foundation to do so.

Minimum Acceptable Value

Any gift valued at less than $10,000 will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if the benefits of accepting the gift will exceed the cost of accepting and maintaining it.

Transaction Costs

Costs related to reviewing, accepting, maintaining, and disposing of real estate will be attributed to each individual gift. These costs typically may include legal fees, travel to review gifts, general due diligence, (e.g., market analysis, title search, environmental and building review), taxes, utilities, repairs, insurance, etc.

Letter of Instructions

In those cases in which the disposition of the donated real estate or the proceeds from the sale thereof is not otherwise specified by gift agreement, trust instrument or endowment agreement, the appropriate development officer will have the donor prepare or will prepare for the donor's signature a letter of instruction specifying to whom and for what purposes the gift of real estate and/or its sale proceeds is made.

Legal and Tax Review by Donor's Counsel

Donors should be advised to obtain legal assistance and tax counsel in handling their gifts.

Transaction Responsibility

The development officer, working with the donor, will collect preliminary information using the "Proposed Donation of Real Estate Fact Sheet" to determine if the properties meet the minimum criteria for acceptance. Attached is a standardized report for this purpose. If the proposed gift meets the basic criteria as stated in this policy, that decision will be relayed by UREF to the Planned Giving office with the understanding that acceptance is conditional upon completion of the due diligence process.

Once the due diligence process is complete and the gift is deemed acceptable, UREF will coordinate the closing of the transfer with the donor's representative, usually an attorney or real estate broker. Unless otherwise specified by the donor, UREF legal counsel will prepare the form of the deed for review by donor's counsel and signature by the donor.

The Planned Giving office will coordinate the preparation of any charitable gift documents that may be required in addition to the deed.

As appropriate, documents will be reviewed by University and UREF legal counsel prior to closing.

Donor Follow-Up

With the exception of life estate gifts, once the gifts have been transferred to UREF, the donors will have no control over how the property is maintained or of the disposition process. If donors have questions regarding their gifts, they should contact the appropriate development officer.

Site Visits

In all cases, property will be inspected by UREF personnel, or a representative of L"REF, prior to acceptance.

Information Needed Prior to Approval

The following information will be needed before acceptance of a property can be approved. The collection of this information will be managed by UREF.

1) Evidence of clear title

2) Evidence of appropriate zoning and permits

3) Evidence of sufficient value and marketability

4) Evidence that the property meets minimum environmental standards

5) Building/engineering inspection as appropriate

6) Surveys as appropriate

Approval for Acceptance

Ultimate responsibility for accepting gifts resides with the UVAF Board of Directors. This acceptance authority can be delegated to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or the Chief Operating Officer of the UVA Foundation.

Debt

Real estate property which is encumbered by debt will be scrutinized more closely. There may be situations when the debt is so small and the likelihood of a quick sale is such that the property is accepted. These properties will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

Appraisal Process

The donor must obtain an appraisal to receive a tax deduction from the Internal Revenue Service. The appraisal must be performed by a licensed appraiser and must occur within 60 days before the gift is transacted and the due date of the donor's next tax return. UREF reserves the right to obtain its own appraisal in the event that there is some question regarding the marketability of the property. The Development Office will ensure that the donor provides UREF with a copy of any appraisal performed.

Environmental Review Process

The type of real estate will determine the level of environmental review required. In most cases a Phase I Environmental Assessment will be required. If there are improvements on the property, then further tests and sampling may be required to determine the presence of asbestos building materials or other hazards. In the event that a hazard is detected, an analysis of possible remediation efforts will be made.

Title Insurance

It is the policy of UREF to require an owner's title insurance policy on all real estate gifts. The cost of this policy can be reduced by incorporating information from existing policies, but UREF will nonetheless require that a new policy be in place.

Internal Revenue Service Reporting (8283 & 8282)

The donor will be responsible for preparing an IRS Form 8283 detailing the value of the gift. UREF will be required to sign the form as the recipient. This form requires certification by a qualified appraiser of the value of the gift, and it will be the specific responsibility of the donor to designate an appraiser to provide this information. As a reminder, UREF will provide the donor with a copy of Form 8283 at closing.

Subsequent to the sale of the gift, UREF will submit an IRS Form 8282 detailing the sale price of the gift. The donor has no involvement with this requirement. As a courtesy. a copy will be provided to the Planned Giving Office and to the donor.

Gift Reporting

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will notify the Planned Giving Office, which will notify the Director of Gift Accounting, at the time it receives a gift. This notification will include sending a copy of the certified appraiser's estimation of the value of the property. Others who will be notified may include the President, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Vice President for Development, and the relevant development officer.

UREF will notify the Planned Giving Office in the event there is a change in the status of any property. At a minimum, UREF will prepare and submit to the Planned Giving Office a quarterly report detailing the status of all property gifts.

Maintenance/Management of Received Gifts

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will exercise reasonable care in the maintenance and management of any gift. This will include periodic inspections by UREF, or its designated agents, appropriate preventive and routine maintenance, and safeguarding as necessary. In the event that the gift is an income-producing property, UREF likely will contract with a fee property manager for the management of the property until it is sold.

Disposition of Gifts

The University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation will take reasonable steps to market and sell the property at a value equal to or greater than the appraised value of the initial gift as expeditiously as possible. If this cannot be accomplished, UREF may choose to discount the property to a market level that will stimulate a sale of the property. UREF will notify the Planned Giving Office in those instances where a property is being sold at significant difference from the stated value of the gift.

Management of Real Estate Files

Complete files on all donated real estate will be maintained by UREF. These files are available to University and foundation personnel for review.

Listing Agreements

In most cases, UREF will procure the services of a licensed real estate broker to manage, market and sell the property. This will entail negotiation of commissions and creation of a listing agreement. Consideration will be given to brokers who already have been employed by the owner, but UREF reserves the right to select a broker based on sound business criteria. In general, UREF will not enter into listing agreements with duration of more than one year.

ATTACHMENT B THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT GUIDELINES FOR UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT LOANS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Background

The University of Virginia has advanced funds (Endowment Loans) to the University of Virginia Foundation (currently totalling $32.1 million) to acquire strategic real estate assets that have served the financial and programmatic needs of the University of Virginia. In June 1992, the University Real Estate Foundation adopted a policy regarding repayment to the University Endowment which stated that the Endowment Loans would be non-interest bearing. Repayment would be based on the activities of specific assets (in essence, without recourse to the Foundation's other assets or activities), and, after the principal on the loans was repaid, gifts would be made to the endowment.

To acheive a level of independent financial strength for the Foundation to pursue its objectives in serving the University of Virginia, we have adopted the following principles that serve as guidelines.

Acquisition of Properties for the University:

1\. Purchase must be approved by the Foundation's Board and the University of Virginia's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

2\. Department must provide comfort to the Chief Financial Officer that it has the funds to purchase the property.

3.The Foundation will assess a 1% acquisition fee, 1% disposition fee, direct expenses associated with acquisition and sale, plus management fees, if necessary.

4.An interest rate similar to that which the Foundation receives from outside creditors will be assessed. Rental income, if any, will be credited against this expense.

GIfts of Real Estate

1\. The Foundation will charge a 1% acquisition fee, a 1% disposition fee (capped at $25,000 for both), direct expenses associated with acquisition and sale, plus management fees, if necessary, against the proceeds of the gift.

2\. The University will provide a $50,000 imprest fund to cover expenses incurred prior to the sale of property.

Ongoing Operations:

1.Income will be used first to amortize indebtedness, with parties other than the University, related to improvements and carrying costs for the project.

2.When feasible, excess income will be used to secure third-party debt to repay the principal on Endowment Loans. The balance, if any, shall remain with the Foundation

Sale of Properties

Other than properties purchased for a specific department, which will be sold on a fully-costed basis, all properties will be sold at market-value based on a MAI appraisal secured by the Foundation. The proceeds will be used as follows:

(a) First to repay indebtedness with third parties.

(b) Additional proceeds will be used to repay Endowment Loans.

(c) Any excess proceeds after "a" and "b" are met, will be allocated 50% to the University of Virginia as a gift and 50% to the Foundation to establish its own capital base.

(d) If proceeds are insufficient to accomplish "a" and "b", the unpaid Endowment Loan will be written off on the Univeristy's books.

Other:

The Univeristy recognized that the Foundation does not yet have sufficient income to cover its operating costs. As such, the University understands that the FOundation will not begin repaying the Endowment Loans on the Colonnades and Booker House. This exception to the policy will be review in five years.
