---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1997'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA November 7-8, 1997
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:00 a.m., on Friday, November 7, 1997, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwin Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, and James C. Wheat, III. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 3:30 p.m., on Friday, November 7, 1997, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, and James C. Wheat, III. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:30 a.m., on Saturday, November 8, 1997, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker and James C. Wheat, III. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, L. Jay Lemons and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, JUNE 13-14, 1997
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the meeting of June 13-14, 1997, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of the condition, acquisition or use of real property for public purpose, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(3) of the Code of Virginia. That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider the protection of the privacy of individuals in personal matters not related to public business as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(4) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, as permitted by Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Health Affairs Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing proprietary, business related information of the Medical Center in connection with its proposed joint ventures, and the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, when if made public initially the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1344 (A) (6) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT

The President reported on a miscellany of items:

The salary supplement authorized by the Board last fall has meant a 2% increase in faculty salaries; this figure does not include the recent $lm gift from the Alumni Association for faculty salaries.

The first awards to faculty and staff made possible by a gift from Mr. David Harrison of Prince George County were announced recently: there were ten awards of $10,000 each.

The University of Virginia Foundation will request funds from the new state Economic Development Fund to be used for infrastructure at the North Fork Research Park. There have been a number of concerns about alcohol abuse among students, with evidence that there has been a dramatic rise in student "binge" drinking at the University and at other schools.

The Board will hear a report in the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee about a proposed restructuring of the Office of African-American Affairs, though no action will be requested at this time.

Orientation of new students has been the subject of considerable discussion at the University this fall. Social orientation has been successful but academic orientation has been less so and more attention will have to be paid to it. It has been suggested that there be more faculty involvement in first year dormitory life.

There has been a lively discussion this fall about the possibility of delaying fraternity and sorority rush so that it doesn't begin a few weeks after first year students matriculate in the University.

Mr. Goodwin asked what steps might be taken to eliminate once and for all the perennial statistic of faculty salaries at Clinch Valley College being the lowest in Virginia. The President and Mr. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, explained the State's current system of calculating faculty salaries, which is the principal cause of the problem. Efforts to 'rectify this in the forthcoming Session of the General Assembly should resolve the problem in two years.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE W. GAYLE CRUTCHFIELD PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROLOGICAL SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield was born in Henry County, Kentucky and took a B.S. from the University of Kentucky and an M.D. from the Johns Hopkins University; andWHEREAS, Dr. Crutchfield trained in neurosurgery under Dr. C.C. Coleman of the Medical College of Virginia, who helped found the Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, Dr. Crutchfield became Professor of Neurological Surgery and Chair of the newly formed Department in the School of Medicine in 1941, remaining as Chair until 1966, Acting Chair until 1969 and Professor until his retirement in 1971; andWHEREAS, Dr. Crutchfield was known as a master physician and teacher, an inspiration and mentor to a generation of residents, and a national leader in his field; andWHEREAS, after Dr. Crutchfield's retirement, friends and former students began to raise money to establish a professorship in his honor; andWHEREAS, Dr. Crutchfield's son, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., has made a gift to the University to provide the funds necessary for the chair;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors establishes the W. Gayle Crutchfield Professorship in Neurological Surgery in the School of Medicine.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHARLES I. FULLER, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN NEONATOLOGY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Dr. Charles L. Fuller, Jr. was born in Norton, took his M.D. from the University in 1945, and continued his studies with a residency in Pediatrics; andWHEREAS, Dr. Fuller spent most of his professional life in practice in his native Southwest Virginia; andWHEREAS, Dr. Fuller died on March 25, 1995, leaving a very generous bequest to the University for the establishment of a chair in Neonatology in the School of Medicine;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia establishes the Charles I. Fuller, Jr., Professorship in Neonatology in the School of Medicine and expresses its appreciation for the generosity of the late Dr. Fuller.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILFORD W. SPRADLIN PROFESSORSHIP IN PSYCHIATRIC MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Dr. Wilford W. Spradlin was born in Bedford County and took his B.A. from the University of Virginia in 1953, and his M.D. in 1957; andWHEREAS, Dr. Spradlin taught at Duke University and at West Virginia University before returning to the University of Virginia in 1978 as Chair of the Department of Psychiatric Medicine, a position he held until 1992; andWHEREAS, Dr. Spradlin will retire in the fall of 1997 after a distinguished career as a teacher and as a leader in his discipline; andWHEREAS, Colleagues, friends and former students of Dr. Spradlin have contributed generously to a fund for a professorship in his honor;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors establishes the Wilford W. Spradlin Professorship in Psychiatric Medicine in the School of Medicine, thanks those who have honored Dr. Spradlin with their gifts to the Medical School, and expresses its sincere appreciation to Dr. Spradlin for his devoted service to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONSBANR PROFESSORSHIP IN THE MCINTIRE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President will propose the adoption of the following resolution: WHEREAS, In 1994, NationsBank, Virginia, under the leadership of Randolph W. McElroy, who was then its President, established a fund to benefit the McIntire School of Commerce; andWHEREAS, it was the intent of Mr. McElroy and NationsBank that the money be used to establish a professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia thanks Mr. McElroy for his encouragement of this gift and NationsBank for its generosity, and establishes the NationsBank Professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MASTER PLAN UPDATE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Section 4-4.01(c) of the Appropriations Act requires state agencies to have a master plan on which to base reviews of capital project requests; andWHEREAS, the College has completed a revision to its current master plan dated January 24, 1992; andWHEREAS, the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council voted unanimously at its October 10, 1997 meeting to recommend approval of the master plan to the Board of Visitors with the proviso that the College not be limited in future enrollment growth to the levels outlined in the master plan and that campus planning for buildings and grounds should include efforts to enhance the collegiate qualities and appearance of the campus,RESOLVED that the Clinch Valley College 1997 Facilities Master Plan Update prepared by Thomson+Litton, Inc., of Wise and Van Yahres & Associates of Charlottesville, is approved.

POLICY REVISION, ATHLETIC SIGNS
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the original Policy on Signage in Athletic Facilities was approved by the Board of Visitors on January 26, 1990; andWHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Policy on Signage in Athletic Facilities for accuracy and applicability and has determined that it requires substantive changes; andWHEREAS, on April 12, 1997, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform referred the policy to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for review and revision; andWHEREAS, current practice differs from the Board's policy; RESOLVED that the Policy on Signage in Athletic Facilities dated January 26, 1990 be updated and superseded as follows:

Policy on Commercial Signs in Athletic Facilities

This policy governs the placement and content of commercial signs whether located on the exterior or interior of Athletic and Intramural facilities including but not limited to field houses, gymnasiums, stadiums, courts, tracks, and fields.

Permanent Signs

Permanent signs include message boards that display changing commercial messages.

1\. Content Standards

     a.The message on a commercial sign may include a firm's name and other identifying marks or slogans including but not limited to licensed registered trademarks, but shall not make or imply comparisons with competing products or services.

     b. In no circumstances will a commercial sign be associated with tobacco or alcohol related products.

     c. The content of commercial messages shall be recommended by the Athletic Director to the Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer for approval.

2\. Design and Location Standards for Exterior Signs

a. The design and location of permanent exterior signs that contain commercial message(s) shall be approved by the Architect for the University. This review and approval shall be for conformance to the University's design standards.

b.Illumination may be used only while the athletic or intramural facility is in use for an event.

3\. Design and Location Standards for Interior Signs

a. Permanent commercial signs displaying a firm's identifying mark or slogan as well as standard commercial advertising signs may be located in conjunction with concession areas, scoreboard(s), message centers and scorers' tables.

b. Illumination may be used only while the athletic or intramural facility is in use for an event.

c. Revolving commercial signs on message boards may be displayed only during events.

d. Detailed design and location requirements for permanent commercial signs shall be governed by standards promulgated by the Director of Athletic Programs.

Temporary Signs

1\. Content Standards

a. The content of temporary commercial signs may include the following information:

1\. Radio/television networks broadcasting the athletic event

2\. Events related to the hosting of ACC or NCAA tournaments where the display of corporate signs is a stipulation associated with hosting the events

3\. A title sponsor for a particular contest.

b. The message on a temporary commercial sign may include a firm's name and other identifying marks or slogans including but not limited to licensed registered trademarks, but shall not make or imply comparisons with competing products or services.

c. In no circumstances will a temporary commercial sign be associated with tobacco or alcohol related products.

d. The content of temporary commercial signs shall be governed by standards promulgated by the Director of Athletic Programs.

2\. Location Standards

a. Temporary commercial signs may be located at court/field promotion displays, sign up tables for the registering of potential participants, concession areas, or as entrance/welcome signs for the period of the event only.

b. Temporary commercial signs may not be placed on walls, railings, or game goals.

c. Detailed location requirements for temporary commercial signs shall be governed by standards promulgated by the Director of Athletic Programs.

ADMINISTRATIVE/PROFESSIONAL FACULTY COMPENSATION AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION PLAN
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved on January 27, 1989, an Administrative/Professional Faculty Compensation and Personnel Administration Plan; andWHEREAS, the Consolidated Salary Authorization of the Commonwealth of Virginia requires the Board of Visitors to approve procedures utilized for regularly scheduled performance reviews of all faculty appointees; andWHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost of the University has promulgated a policy requiring annual performance reviews for all instructional faculty members that has been approved by the State Council for Higher Education in Virginia (SCHEV); andWHEREAS, the Board's 1989 policy must be revised to conform with the current Consolidated Salary Authorization and proper titles of current University offices and officials should be substituted;RESOLVED that the Administrative/Professional Faculty Compensation and Personnel Administration Plan adopted on January 27, 1989, be superseded and replaced with the following:

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FACULTY COMPENSATION PLAN
------------------------------------------------

A performance evaluation will be required at least annually of all individuals holding a faculty position. This shall include an annual report filed by each faculty member and in the case of instructional faculty an evaluation of teaching, service, and research. Salary increases will be awarded to faculty based on merit, that is, on the performance of each individual as reflected by the performance evaluation, and will be administered on the basis of professional/job related criteria.

Compensation Guidelines for faculty will be determined by comparing compensation paid for similar positions at peer institutions. Special studies may be conducted as necessary.

The University will adhere to the requirement in the Consolidated Salary Authorization which limits the salary average for 11/12 month Administrative and Professional faculty to an amount which does not exceed the salary average for 9/10 month teaching and research faculty by more than 35%.

A position description will be required for each current and proposed Administrative/Professional faculty position. The position description should include an organization chart indicating the position's level in relationship to the President as well as subordinate positions and job titles. The position descriptions will be maintained in the Department of Human Resources.

Job titles shall be consistent and descriptive of the job duties for each Administrative/Professional faculty position.

Administrative responsibility for implementation of the Faculty Compensation Plan is assigned to the appropriate Vice President.

APPROVAL OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

University of Virginia Alumni Association

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

University of Virginia Host Properties, Inc.

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Clinch Valley College Foundation

J. Thomas Hulvey

Curry School of Education Foundation

Elizabeth D. Morie

Darden School Foundation

Lemuel E. Lewis

Friends of the University of Virginia's Blandy Experimental Farm

David C. Benjamin

Healthcare Partners, Inc.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

University of Virginia Health Services Foundation

Paul H. Wood

Historic Renovation Corporation

David W. Carr

University of Virginia Law School Foundation

Mortimer M. Caplin

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

Elizabeth A. Twohy

University of Virginia Medical School Alumni Association

N. Thomas Connally

University of Virginia Medical School Foundation

N. Thomas Connally

Miller Center Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University of Virginia Patents Foundation

Haydn N. G. Wadley

University of Virginia Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

University Real Estate Foundation

Hovey S. Dabney

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.

R. Scott Jones

Virginia Engineering Foundation

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Virginia Kidney Stone Foundation

William D. Steers

Virginia Student Aid Foundation

M. Terry Holland

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are approved as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-related foundations:

University of Virginia Alumni AssociationC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment FundRobert V. Hatcher, Jr.University of Virginia Host Properties, Inc.Robert G. Butcher, Jr.Clinch Valley College FoundationJ. Thomas HulveyCurry School of Education FoundationElizabeth D. MorieDarden School FoundationLemuel E. LewisFriends of the University of Virginia's Blandy Experimental FarmDavid C. BenjaminHealthcare Partners, Inc.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.University of Virginia Health Services FoundationPaul H. WoodHistoric Renovation CorporationDavid W. CarrUniversity of Virginia Law School FoundationMortimer M. CaplinMcIntire School of Commerce FoundationElizabeth A. TwohyUniversity of Virginia Medical School Alumni AssociationN. Thomas ConnallyUniversity of Virginia Medical School FoundationN. Thomas ConnallyMiller Center FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity of Virginia Patents FoundationHaydn N. G. WadleyUniversity of Virginia FoundationHovey S. DabneyUniversity Real Estate Foundation Hovey S. DabneyVirginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc. R. Scott JonesVirginia Engineering FoundationC. Wilson McNeely, IIIVirginia Kidney Stone FoundationWilliam D. SteersVirginia Student Aid Foundation M. Terry HollandVirginia Tax Foundation, Inc.Joseph E. Gibson

APPROVAL OF ESTABLISHMENT OF LILLIAN PRATT QUASI-ENDOWMENT
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the establishment of the Lillian Pratt Quasi-Endowment Fund in the amount of $9,465,997.67, be approved.

APPROVAL OF REPORT ON SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 INVESTMENT IN BLUE RIDGE HEALTH ALLIANCE, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, on June 14, 1997, the Board of Visitors delegated to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer authority to invest in joint business ventures in amounts not exceeding $5 million, with concurrence of the chairs of the Finance and Health Affairs Committees; and,WHEREAS, prior to making any investment, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer secured the appropriate approval of the Chairs of the Finance and Health Affairs Committees as well as the Rector of the Board of Visitors;RESOLVED that the Finance Committee and the Board of Visitors accepts this report of an investment in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc. on September 4, 1997, in the amount of $5 million.

APPROVAL OF 1998 GAINSHARING PLAN
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Medical Center's approved budget projects a $22,200,000 operating margin for Fiscal Year 1997-98; andWHEREAS, the proposed 1998 Gainsharing Plan consists of a one-time payment to eligible Medical Center employees and School of Medicine clinical faculty who are performing at a satisfactory level; andWHEREAS, the Gainsharing payment will be made in August 1998 in accordance with the,Gainsharing Plan and matrix;RESOLVED that the 1998 Gainsharing Plan be approved.

APPROVAL OF SALARY ADJUSTMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the codified autonomy legislation expanded the Board of Visitors' authority to establish compensation plans; andWHEREAS, compensation surveys of salaries paid by area, state and regional health care and other employers have been conducted and analyzed; andWHEREAS, the results of these surveys support an average salary increase of four percent, plus a 0.5 percent of salary market equity adjustment for some Health Care Professionals, effective November 30, 1997; and,WHEREAS, the Medical Center has proposed that the salary increases reflected in the "1997 Salary Adjustments Implementing Guidelines for Health Care Professionals" listed below be adopted;RESOLVED that the "1997 Salary Adjustments Implementing Guidelines for Health Care Professionals" listed below be approved.

1997 SALARY ADJUSTMENTS IMPLANTING GUIDELINES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

•Health Care Professionals will be eligible for an average four-percent increase allocated on the basis of merit. Some Health Care Professionals may also receive an equity adjustment to address external market factors or internal alignment concerns. All market equity adjustments must be recommended by the manager and be approved by the divisional executive and the Executive Director of the Medical Center.

•Individual salary adjustments, including both merit and equity, that exceed ten percent will require the approval of the Executive Director of the Medical Center.

•The minimum and maximum of all salary ranges will be adjusted by four percent with the exception of operating room technicians and pharmacists. Operating room technicians' salaries will be adjusted by eight percent; pharmacists', by six percent.

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PROJECT AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE FOOTBALL FACILITY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section 1.150-2 of the Treasury Regulations (the "Regulations") governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; andWHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; andWHEREAS, the Board of'Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; andRESOLVED that, pursuant to the Regulations, the University hereby declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:     1. The University reasonably expects to reimburse expenditures incurred for the construction of the expansion of Scott Stadium and the construction of the football facility at Clinch Valley College with proceeds from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds (the "bonds") to be issued by the University through the Treasury board;     2. This resolution is a declaration of official intent under Section 1.150-2 of the Regulations;     3. The maximum principal amount of bonds expected to be issued for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures relating to the Scott Stadium expansion project is $50 million, and relating to the construction of the football facility at Clinch Valley College is $6 million.

APPROVAL OF THE 1997 WTJU ANNUAL REPORT
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the"1997 WTJU Annual Report be approved, as recommended by the President and the Vice President for Student Affairs.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated November 7, 1997, and prepared by Beery International of Atlanta, Georgia, for the construction of the Scott Stadium Expansion project are approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that .the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING AND MEDICAL SCIENCE BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated November 7, 1997, and prepared by Henningson, Durham and Richardson of Alexandria, Virginia, for the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building are approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ENGINEER SELECTION FOR THE EAST PRECINCT CHILLER PLANT PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of RMF Engineering, Inc., of Baltimore, Maryland, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the East Precinct Chiller Plant project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT RENOVATIONS PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Ellerbe Becket of Washington, D.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Emergency Department Renovation project.

APPROVAL OF CAMPAIGN GIFT CREDITING AND VALUATION POLICY
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED that the revised Campaign Gift Crediting and Valuation Policy be approved (see Attachment A).

APPROVAL OF CONVERSION OF CAPITAL ADVANCE TO CONTRIBUTION FOR VIRGINIA AUXILIARY SERVICES-FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Rector and the Visitors of the University of Virginia authorized a $500,000.00 non-interest bearing capital advance to the Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation on January 29, 1987; andWHEREAS, the Virginia Student Aid Foundation has used these funds to support the Birdwood Golf Course and facilities, providing discounts and services to faculty, staff and students of the University of Virginia;RESOLVED that the non-interest bearing capital advance from the general funds of the University to the Virginia Auxiliary Services Foundation in the amount of $500,000.00, be converted from an operating loan to a contribution to the operating costs of the Birdwood Golf Course and facilities.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER CORPORATE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors is committed to continuing efforts to improve quality and performance;RESOLVED that,     1. The President of the University is authorized to dedicate the necessary resources toward development of an effective Corporate Compliance Program (the "Program") designed to prevent and detect potential violations of law and/or risky practices in the conduct of their business affairs by employees, physicians and agents of the Medical Center.2. The Program will:a) Establish compliance standards and procedures reasonably capable of reducing the risk of wrongful conduct;b) Appoint specific, high-level individual (s) (responsible to the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with responsibility to coordinate programs with the General Counsel and the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences) with overall responsibility to oversee the administration of the program;c) Take steps to communicate effectively the compliance standards and procedures to all employees and agents by, for example, mandatory training sessions or the dissemination of publications;d) Take reasonable steps to achieve compliance by, for example, utilizing monitoring and auditing systems, and by publicizing a reporting system whereby employees and agents can report perceived wrongful conduct by others within the organization without fear of retribution;e) Consistently enforce its standards through appropriate disciplinary mechanisms, including as appropriate, discipline of individuals for failure to detect noncompliance; andf) Take reasonable steps to respond appropriately to noncompliance after detection and to prevent recurrence, which may require modifications to the compliance program.3. The development of specific recommendations, educating and training employees with respect to those specific recommendations, and reviewing and possibly enhancing internal controls and monitoring systems will be timeconsuming. Accordingly, management is directed to proceed in a responsible manner that may include several phases. Periodic progress reports shall be provided to the Board.

NEW BUSINESS VENTURE - I.Q. HEALTH
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Institute for Quality Health ("IQ Health"), a division of the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation ("HSF"), a University-related foundation, proposes to enter into a new business venture with the Cerner Corporation to license its Health Risk Assessment to Cerner and to enter into an agreement whereby it continues to provide services to Cerner related to development and enhancement to the Health Risk Assessment; andWHEREAS, under the Policy on University-related Foundations, HSF is required to submit all new business ventures for approval of the Board of Visitors; andWHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences recommends that, in the best interests of the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, approval be granted for this venture;RESOLVED that the described business arrangement between HSF and the Cerner Corporation is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized, with advice of the General Counsel, to execute such agreement or agreements as may be in the best interests of the University of Virginia, with the HSF, regarding the limitations on the use of the University of Virginia name in conjunction with the Cerner venture.

APPROVAL OF THE FRAMEWORK FOR PLANNING PROCESS
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the President of the University of Virginia has asked the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College to develop a long-term strategic plan for Clinch Valley College; andWHEREAS, the Chancellor has distilled the observations of constituents into a set of core principles and strategic directions; andWHEREAS, the strategic directions provide the foundation for developing a long-term strategic plan; andWHEREAS, the Faculty Senate of Clinch Valley College approved the strategic directions;RESOLVED that the strategic directions, listed below, are approved as the foundation for developing the strategic plan. • Increase academic excellence by improving conditions of academic life • Improve facilities and campus appearance • Increase enrollment while maintaining the character of Clinch Valley College • Improve student life, especially by increasing the sense of community on campus • Improve the College's visibility and recognition • Strengthen relationships with key constituencies

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., reported on Gifts, Grants and Contracts. The Report was accepted.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------

Mr. Leonard Sandridge reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meetings on July 9, 1997, August 21, 1997, September 8, 1997, October 2, 1997, and October 24, 1997:

APPROVAL TO REMOVE PROPERTY
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University acquired on July 1, 1997, real estate located at 214 and 334 15th Street S.W., Charlottesville, from Lillian E. Flora; andWHEREAS, the University acquired on July 1, 1997, real estate located at 212 15th Street S.W., Charlottesville, from Charlie R. Flora; andWHEREAS, the University acquired on July 2, 1997, real estate located at 335 15th Street S.W., Charlottesville, from Herbert W. Perkins, III; andWHEREAS, all of these four parcels were acquired for use in support of the Health Sciences Center Parking Structure and Stormwater Management projects; andWHEREAS, these four parcels include improvements consisting of six buildings which must be removed in support of the aforementioned project, said improvements more specifically described as a two-story wood frame residence built in 1950; a two story wood frame residence built in 1920; a concrete block garage/apartment unit built in 1950; a two story wood frame residence built in 1850, last renovated in 1955; a one and one half story block/frame duplex unit built in 1940; a one story concrete block residence built in 1940; andWHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Seventy-One (97), dated January 17, 1997, the authority of the Governor to approve, as required in Section 2.1-488.4(8) of the Code of Virginia, the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and consistent with the Department of General Service's DEB Directive Number 1, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; andWHEREAS, the Department of Historic Resources has reviewed the University's request to remove the aforementioned buildings and has no objection to their removal or demolition; andWHEREAS, the Chairman of the Art and Architectural Review Board is recommending approval of the University's request and has placed this request to remove the aforementioned buildings on the Consent Agenda of said Board's July 11, 1997 meeting;RESOLVED that the removal of the aforementioned buildings is approved by the Board of Visitors in the stead of the Governor.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings upon the recommendation of approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removals is sent to the Department of General Services once the buildings are removed.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE PROPERTY
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns land on Ivy Road southeast of the Interchange of Ivy Road and the State Route 250 Bypass, identified as County of Albemarle Parcel 60-30E, which was acquired by deed of sale on November 24, 1964; andWHEREAS, the University plans to lease this parcel to the County of Albemarle and the City of Charlottesville for fifty years and the County and City have agreed to fund the construction of a emergency communications center and fire station to serve all three entities; andWHEREAS, this parcel includes an improvement consisting of one building which must be removed in support of the aforementioned project, said improvement more specifically described as a one-story steel-frame garage built in 1952; andWHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Seventy-One (97), dated January 17, 1997, the authority of the Governor to approve, as required in.-Section 2.1-488.4(B) of the Code of Virginia, the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and consistent with the Department of General Service's DEB Directive Number 1, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; andWHEREAS, the Department of Historic Resources reviewed the University's request to remove the aforementioned building on December 29, 1995 and has no objection to its removal or demolition; andWHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board reviewed the University's request at its meeting on January 5, 1996, and recommended approval of the building's removal; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved the schematic design for the construction of the Emergency Operations Center on April 11, 1996, and the preliminary design for construction of the same project on June 14, 1996;RESOLVED that the removal of the aforementioned building is approved by the Board of Visitors in the stead of the Governor.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services once the building is removed.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Beery International, Inc. of Atlanta, Georgia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Scott Stadium Expansion project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOOTBALL FACILITY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Thompson + Litton of Wise, Virginia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Clinch Valley College Football Facility project.

APPROVAL OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR THE HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER PARKING GARAGE FOR 600 VEHICLES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University wishes to purchase real estate located along the south side of University property in the Health Sciences Center's East Precinct from 15th Street to Lee Street and the 9th/10th Street Connector from Norfolk Southern Corporation for a total purchase price of $200,000 for use in support of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles project; andWHEREAS, in 1996 the General Assembly authorized the construction of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage project;RESOLVED that the acquisition of the Norfolk Southern property is approved by the Board of Visitors.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE PARKING COMPONENT OF THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Rich and Associates, Inc. of Southfield, Michigan, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the parking component of the Scott Stadium Expansion project.

APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT IN ROTHSCHILD RECOVERY FUND, L.P.
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to commit $20 million of the Endowment for the following investment: ROTHSCHILD RECOVERY FUND, L.P.

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TO MARE CHANGES IN THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PLANNING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors determined on June 14, 1997, that it will expand Scott Stadium; andWHEREAS we now have more detailed information about the phasing and scope of work necessary to complete the project;RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to alter the detailed schedule of planning and construction approved by the Board on June 14, 1997 to best meet the requirements of the project, with the understanding that any changes will be consistent with any formal agreements existing with other parties and that the completed project will be available for the 2000 football season.

APPROVAL OF SALARIES FOR PRESIDENT JOHN T. CASTEEN, III, AND CHANCELLOR L. JAY LEMONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 1997-98 salary recommendations for the President of the University and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, in accordance with the 1997 Appropriations Act, be approved.

REAFFIRMATION OF EXISTING POLICIES (CATEGORY A)
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform (the "Committee") has examined the accompanying policies to determine their accuracy and applicability and has found that they require no substantive or technical changes; andWHEREAS, the Committee has requested that the appropriate administrative officials ensure that current practices conform to the attached policies (see Attachment B);RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors reaffirms the accuracy and viability of the attached policies;RESOLVED FURTHER that said policies be maintained by the Secretary of the Board of Visitors as part of an up-to-date record of Board of Visitors policies.

AUTHORIZATION TO RESCIND OUTDATED POLICIES (CATEGORY B)
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform (the "Committee") has examined the accompanying policies to determine their accuracy and applicability and has found that they are outdated;RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors rescinds the accompanying policies;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary of the Board of Visitors remove said policies from the record of current Board of Visitors policies but that the policies be maintained as a part of the Board minutes and of the historical record of the Board's actions.

APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICIES AND GUIDELINES
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the attached Investment Policies and Guidelines (see Attachment B) be approved.

REVISION OF THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 1991
-----------------------------------------------------

In reporting on the action of the Executive Committee in approving the changes to the Manual recommended by the Manual revision committee, Mr."Clark seconded the recommendation of the Executive Committee, asked that the Rector order the reprinting of the Manual, suggested that the Rector designate a Member of the Board to work with the Secretary on the reprinting, and asked that the Rector discharge the Special Committee to Revise the Manual.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Special Committee to Revise the Manual has approved revisions to the Manual; andWHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5.9 of the Manual, the Executive Committee of the Board has approved the recommendations of the Special Committee;RESOLVED, the revisions to the Manual as shown on Attachment C are approved effective November 8, 1997. As of their effective date, these provisions shall supersede all prior actions of the Board of Visitors which are inconsistent with them.

After the resolution was adopted, the Rector ordered the reprinting of the Manual, appointed Mr. Clark to work with the Secretary, commended Mr. Clark for his work and discharged the Special Committee to Revise the Manual.

APPROVAL OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR THE LONG-TERM ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH PROJECT ON THE EASTERN SHORE OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, in 1997 the General Assembly authorized the expenditure of up to $600,000 for this acquisition for the LTER project;RESOLVED that the acquisition of the Nature Conservancy property is approved by the Finance Committee.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property.

ACCEPTANCE OF REPORT ON QUALCHOICE
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, because of the current and projected operating losses of QualChoice of Virginia Health Plan, Inc. (QualChoice), the HMO subsidiary of Blue Ridge Health Alliance, the Rector and Visitors, as a major shareholder in Blue Ridge Health Alliance, engaged Coopers & Lybrand to perform a complete assessment of QualChoice and to formulate a corrective action plan to bring it to profitability; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has heard the report given by Coopers & Lybrand indicating that the financial position of QualChoice may be reversed by prompt corrective action including implementation of a comprehensive medical management program;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors accepts the report by Coopers & Lybrand on QualChoice, andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors directs the University of Virginia representatives on the Blue Ridge Health Alliance, Inc. Board to take immediate and appropriate action to implement the recommendations contained in the report.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period May 1, 1997 through September 30, 1997, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

Mr. Wheat told the Board that he and Mr. Small had discussed the proposed Groundswalk after the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and had agreed that project as planned does not meet the standards the Board of Visitors would like. He recommended that more funds be made available so that a first rate job can be done to connect the North and Central Grounds. He requested that the Buildings and Grounds Committee meet to consider this. The Rector agreed to Mr. Wheat's proposal and asked Ms. Capone, Vice President for Administration and Budget, to arrange a meeting of the Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the facultyDr. Robert E. Adams as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Mark W. Anderson as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Peter B. Arnold as Assistant Professor of Physics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Martha L. Barnett as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for two years, effective August 15, 1997.Dr. Carl L. Berg as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Dr. Roger C. Burket as Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 16, 1997.Dr. Robert C. Burns as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Ms. Susan E. Burns as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. David E. Carr as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Christian A. Chisholm as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 15, 1997.Ms. Petra Christmann as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Kristin M. Clontz as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Mr. Michael J. Collins as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Gregory G. Colomb as Professor of English, effective July 25, 1997.Mr. David A. Dana as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for the period August 25, 1997 through January 8, 1998.Mr. Paul V. Desanker as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective June 25, 1997.Mr. Stephen M. Dickey as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Christopher L. Dvergsten as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective May 1, 1997.Mr. Christopher J. Fannin as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Sanford H. Feldman as Associate Professor of Medical Education, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Mr. Paul Fendley as Assistant Professor of Physics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Michael J. Fisch as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Paul B. Freedman as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Kevin P. Granata as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective May 1, 1997.Ms. Rachel A. Grant as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Carla B. Green as Assistant Professor of Biology, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Grace E. Hale as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Hinrich Hargarter as Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective August 1, 1997.Ms. Kathryn H. Haugh as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Frederick M. Hess as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Catherine A. Hill as Acting Assistant Professor of Urban and Environmental Planning, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Cynthia H. Hoehler-Fatton as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Heidi M. Hurd as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Karen C. Johnston as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Dr. Aliaa A. Khidr as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. David E. Klein as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Jeffrey W. Legro as Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Jon E. Lendon as Associate Professor of History, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Zhi-Yun Li as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Zongli Lin as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Jonathan R. Lindner as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Garrick E. Louis as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Claire C. Lvu as Assistant Professor of French, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Mary E. Magill as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Mary L. Marohn as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective May 1, 1997.Mr. Charles T. Mathewes as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Mark S. Miller as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Jonathan P. Moorman as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Denise L. Newman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. John M. Owen as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Ricardo Padron as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Ronald A. Peck as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Mario Peruggia as Associate Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1997.Ms. Elizabeth A. Powell as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Mark S. Ouigg as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective May 1, 1997.Mr. Michael L. Reed as Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Robert C. Reiser as Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Ms. Kathleen Ryall as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Donald B. Schmit as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. John K. Setear as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Vidyullatha Shivaram as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for two years, effective August 1, 1997.Mr. Nikolaos D. Sidiropoulos as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Alan L. Smith as Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. H. Thomas Temple as Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Maria A. Timmerman as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Pamela D. Tucker as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. William F. Walker as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective June 25, 1997.Ms. Paula J. Warrick as Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Kevin S. Wei as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997.Ms. Dorothy C. Wong as Assistant Professor of Art, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1997.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below: (a) Election of ChairholdersMr. Gary A. Banker as John T. and Louise Nerancy Professor of Neurosciences, effective April 1, 1997.Mr. J. Taylor Beard as Lucien Carr, III Associate Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective June 25, 1997. Mr. Beard will continue as Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without term.Ms. Lillian R. BeVier as Class of 1948 Scholarly Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Ms. BeVier will continue as Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, without term.Mr. Vincent Blasi as John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. George M. Cohen as Edward F. Howrey Professor of Law, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Mr. Cohen will continue as Professor of Law, without term.Dr. Eugene C. Corbett. Jr. as Harrison Medical Teaching Associate Professor of Generalist Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997. Dr. Corbett will continue as Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years.Ms. Anne A. Coughlin as Class of 1941 Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Ms. Coughlin will continue as Professor of Law, without term.Dr. John D. Gazewood as Harrison Medical Teaching Assistant Professor of Generalist Medicine, for the period July 21, 1997 through June 30, 1998, and Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, effective July 21, 1997, for three years.Ms. Annette Gibbs as Linda R. Bunker Professor of Education, for two years, effective August 25, 1997. Ms. Gibbs will continue as Professor of Education, without term.Mr. Clayton P. Gillette as John V. Ray Research Professor of Law, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Mr. Gillette will continue as the Perre Bowen Professor of Law, without term.Ms. Ingeborg H. Harms as Max Kade Visiting Professor of German, for the period August 25, 1997 through January 9, 1998.Mr. W. Nathaniel Howell as John Minor Maury, Jr., Professor of Public Affairs, for the period December 1, 1997 through June 30, 1999.Mr. Robert Hull as Heinz and Doris Wilsdorf Distinguished Research Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, for two years, effective September 1, 1997. Mr. Hull will continue as Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without term.Ms. Pamela S. Karlan as Roy L. and Rosamond Woodruff Morgan Professor of Law, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Ms. Karlan will continue as Professor of Law, without term.Dr. Saniiv Kaul as Frances Myers Ball Professor in the Cardiovascular Division in the Department of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1997. Dr. Kaul will continue as Professor of Internal Medicine, without term.Mr. Michael J. Klarman as F. Palmer Weber Research Professor of Civil Liberties and Human Rights, for three years, effective June 25, 1997. Mr. Klarman will continue as Professor of Law, without term.Ms. Mary B. McKinley as Douglas Huntly Gordon Professor of French Literature, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Steven A. Meixel as Harrison Medical Teaching Professor of Generalist Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997. Dr. Meixel will continue as Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, for one year.Dr. Margaret E. Mohrmann as Harrison Medical Teaching Associate Professor of Generalist Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1997. Dr. Mohrmann will continue as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the perioid July 1, 1997 through June 30, 1999.Mr. Michael S. Moore as William Minor Lile Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Peter W. Ochs as Edgar M. Bronfman Professor of Modern Judaic Studies, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Gabriel Robins as Walter N. Munster Associate Professor for Research in Intelligence Enhancement, for five years, effective June 25, 1997. Mr. Robins will continue as Associate Professor of Computer Science, without term.Mr. Robert I. Webb as Paul Tudor Jones II Research Professor of Commerce, for two years, effective August 25, 1997. Mr. Webb will continue as Professor of Commerce, without term.(b) Changes of Title,of Chairholder(s)Dr. Robert L. Chevalier from Genetech Professor of Pediatrics to Benjamin Armistead Shepherd Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1997.Mr. Robert G. Ring from A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics to Carter Glass Professor of Economics and Robert P. Black Research Professor of Economics, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson from William R. Renan, Jr., Professor of English to Arts and Sciences Professor of English, effective August 25, 1997.Mr. George A. Rutherglen from F. Palmer Weber Research Professor of Civil Liberties and Human Rights to Earle R. Shawe Professor of Employment Law, for one year, effective June 25, 1997.Mr. Louis M. Seidman from John A. Ewald, Jr., Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law to James Monroe Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for the period August 25, 1997 through January 8, 1998.(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders Deleted

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:Mr. Michael A. Bowers from Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences to Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Doris F. Glick from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey from Assistant Professor of Clinical Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective June 25, 1997.Dr. Joel M. Trugman from Associate Professor of Neurology, with term, to Associate Professor of Neurology, without term, effective July 1, 1997.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Mr. S. Michael Bernhard, Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1997, for personal reasons.Ms. Melissa H. Birch, Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Edward F. Connor, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Ms. Karen R. Cottrell, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective October 15, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. J. Alexander Crane, Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, effective May 10, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Jack L. Goldsmith, Associate Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Steven K. Hoae, Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective August 22, 1997, for personal reasons.Mr. David F. Hult, Professor of French, effective May 31, 1997, for personal reasons.Mr. James D. Lechleiter, Associate Professor of Neuroscience, effective August 15, 1997, to accept another position.Ms. Linda E. Muske, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1997, for personal reasons.Mr. Richard A. Peterson, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, effective July 8, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Suzanne M. Pitts, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, effective June 8, 1997, for personal reasons.Dr. Ellsworth J. Remson. III, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, effective July 18, 1997, for personal reasons.Mr. David W. Sedgwick, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1997, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert M. Sellers, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.Ms. Jewel L. Spangler, Asssistant Professor, General Faculty, effective July 15, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Michael P. Steinberg, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Alain Thibault, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective June 20, 1997, to accept another position.Dr. Nathan M. Thielman, Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Enrique R. Torre, Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, effective August 15, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Mehran R. Zaini, Assistant Professor of Clinical Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, effective August 22, 1997, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Samuel J. Dwyer, III, Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1997. Mr. Dwyer has been a member of the faculty since October 1, 1992.Mr. Frank P. Hunter, Jr., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Center Faculty effective June 30, 1997. Mr. Hunter has been a member of the faculty since July 17, 1961.Mr. Rafael M. Inigo, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 31, 1997. Mr. Inigo has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1978.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

Ms. Melinda D. Church as Assistant to the Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for the period October 1, 1997 through June 30, 1999.Ms. Amy D. Cronin as Assistant to the President, for five years, effective August 1, 1997.Mr. James C. Dunlop as Associate General Counsel, for three years, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Yvonne B. Hubbard as Director of Financial Aid, for three years, effective March 1, 1997.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

Mr. Charles B. Fitzgerald as Associate Vice President for Development, for three years, effective June 25, 1997.Mr. Thomas E. Gausvik as Chief Human Resource Officer, for three years, effective July 1, 1997.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Rafael M. Iniao, Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 31, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. BARBARA J. HALEY
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Barbara J. Haley as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 14, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Barbara J. Haley as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective January 9, 1998.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. THEODORE E. MIFFLIN
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Theodore E. Mifflin as Assistant Professor of Research in Pathology, for two years, effective March 1, 1997, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 14, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Theodore E. Mifflin as Associate Professor of Research in Pathology, for two years, effective March 1, 1997.

CHANGE IN THE RESIGNATION OF MS. M. THERESE SEIBERT
---------------------------------------------------

The following change was announced:

The resignation of Ms. M. Therese Seibert, Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective August 31, 1997, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of June 14, 1997, be changed to read as follows:

Ms. M. Therese Seibert, Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1997, for personal reasons.

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR\_. DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions: i) the officer or employee and the immediate family member are engaged in teaching, research, or administrative support positions at the educational institution, (ii) the governing board of the educational institution finds that it is in the best interest of the institution and the Commonwealth for such dual employment to exist, and (iii) after such finding, the board establishes and oversees the implementation of reporting relationships and a supervisory structure to ensure that the officer or employee, or the immediate family member, does not supervise, evaluate or otherwise participate in personnel decisions regarding the other;WHEREAS, Phyllis Leffler and Melvyn Leffler, who are married to each other, are both faculty members in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences;WHEREAS, Phyllis Leffler is a faculty member in the History Department in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, of which Melvyn Leffler is the Dean;RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ Phyllis Leffler and Melvyn Leffler in their positions as members of the faculty in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and as a faculty member in the History Department and as Dean of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences respectively;RESOLVED further that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Phyllis Leffler's capacity as a member of the History Department in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, she reports directly to and is supervised by Barbara Nolan, the Vice Provost for Instructional Development and Innovation, not to the Dean of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences; and (b) regarding Melvyn Leffler's position as Dean of the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, there is no reporting or supervisory relationship between Phyllis Leffler and Melvyn Leffler.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------

ELECTION OF CHAIRHOLDER

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected to the faculty:Mr. Garrett W. Sheldon as John Morton Beaty Professor of Political and Social Sciences, Clinch Valley College, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1997. Mr. Sheldon will continue as Professor of Political Science, without term.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced:

Mr. Lucius F. Ellsworth, Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1997, to accept another position.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:30 p.m., on Friday, November 7, 1997, and at 10:30 a.m., on Saturday, November 8, 1997.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Champ Clark

yes

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Terence P. Ross

yes

Albert H. Small

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

Walter F. Walker

yes

James C. Wheat, III

yes

Kristine L. LaLonde

yes

Meeting Date:   November 7, 1997

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 17

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE:0

ABSENT DURING MEETING:0

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, November 7, 1997, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge"(1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTSHovey S. DabneyyesJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesFranklin K. BirckheadyesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesChamp ClarkyesWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr.yesWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.yes T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn HollandyesC. Wilson McNeely, IIIyesTerence P. RossyesAlbert H. SmallyesElizabeth A. TwohyyesHenry L. Valentine, IIyesWalter F. WalkeryesJames C. Wheat, IIIyesKristine L. LaLondeyes

ATTACHMENT AGift Crediting and Valuation Policy
-----------------------------------------------

I. General

A. Gifts received and commitments made during the period of July 1, 1993, to June 30, 2000 will be credited to the campaign, including annual, capital, and endowed gifts; matured bequests; and irrevocable life insurance gifts.

B. Gifts received before July 1, 1993, may, under certain circumstances, be credited to the campaign. These circumstances include:      l. Endowed and capital gifts to the Darden School and Jefferson Scholars campaigns. These fund-raising efforts constitute the first phase of the Campaign for the University of Virginia.      2. Gifts received for projects/programs designated as priorities in the "Plan for the Year 2000." The size of the gift should be at the prospect's maximum giving potential.      3. Selected gifts received where the donor requires the gift to count as part of his/her campaign commitment.      4. All of the above are to be counted only after review and approval of the President and the Vice President for Development.

C. Pledges exceeding five years will be considered on an individual basis by the Gift Policy Committee.

D. Oral pledges must be confirmed in writing before they are counted. Donors will be encouraged, as much as possible, to state their philanthropic intentions in a letter or memorandum, even though such statements may be informal and non-binding. Failing this, the solicitor will record his/her own understanding of the terms of the oral commitment and submit it via letter to the donor for written confirmation or modification.

E. Gifts are to be valued and credited on the date the University gains control of the assets. The amounts reported are to be arrived at without regard to the donor's personal estimation of the gift value.

F. Naming of commemorative gifts for new construction (or a portion thereof) will be accepted if equal to at least 51 percent of the total private cost of the project. Other naming gift opportunities relating to existing facilities are available and negotiable.

II. Current, Annual, Capital, and Endowed Gifts

A. Cash, securities, written pledges, and gifts of tangible assets are credited at full value. A donor may include in his or her pledge an explicit provision for altering the time period of the pledge if his or her personal circumstance were to change substantially.

B. Gifts of securities are to be credited at market value (mean of high and low) on the date the University gains control of the assets. Neither losses nor gains realized by the sale of the securities after their receipt, nor brokerage fees or other expenses associated with the transaction, are to affect the gift value.

C. Corporate matching gifts will be recorded according to the policies and procedures of the company matching the gift. Matching gifts will be credited to the donor as annual or capital gifts. If a donor wants his or her matching gift to follow the original gift into a restricted fund, every effort will be made to accommodate the request.

III. Gifts of Real Estate and Personal Property

A. Gifts of real estate and personal property with an estimated value of $5,000 or more-such as land, residential housing, incomeproducing property, paintings, antiques, and rare books-are to be valued by an independent, expert appraiser retained and paid for by the donor. The University reserves the right to receive its own independent appraisal for property with a market price of $250,000 or more.

Gifts of equipment such as computer hardware, software, laboratory equipment and other commercially produced items will be valued in accordance with the University's gifts-in-kind policies.

B. Gifts of real estate must undergo an environmental study and zoning assessment before they are accepted by the University.

C. Small gifts of real and personal property-such as rare books or prints-with an apparent worth of less than $5,000 may be valued by someone with knowledge in the field, and that informal valuation may be used for reporting purposes.

D. Gifts of real estate and personal property, if accepted by the University, will be credited to the campaign goals at the appraised fair market value.

E. Gifts of real estate, personal property, or gifts-in-kind that are retained by the University for its own collection are to be counted in a separate column.

F. Gifts accepted by the University that may become part of the University's inventory (generally, property held for sale in the course of the donor's trade or business) will be credited to the campaign at fair market value. Special approvals are required for gifts requiring the execution of a contract with a vendor.

IV. Planned Gifts

A. Gifts to establish charitable remainder trusts, contributions to pooled income funds, and gift annuities will be credited at fair market value (i.e., the full amount of assets given).

1\. Regarding trusts administered by others, the value of the assets in trust that the donor has chosen to have administered by others will be included in the gift totals, provided the trust is irrevocable and the University is an irrevocable beneficiary. The University must have a copy of the trust agreement.

B. In crediting charitable lead trusts, only the income received from the lead trust each year during the period of the campaign (or a five-year period) is to be reported in the gift totals.

C. Paid bequests, outright bequests from estates in probate, and any additional payments on previous bequests received during the campaign will be given full credit for the amount received.

D. In crediting gifts of insurance, the University must be named both beneficiary and irrevocable owner of an insurance policy before the policy will be recorded as a gift.

1\. The cash surrender value of the policy when given, rather than its face value, is the amount to be credited as a gift. The difference between the cash surrender value and the face value will be credited to Future Support (see page 5).

2\. If the donor pays further premiums on the policy, the premiums will be included in the gift totals.

3\. If the University elects to pay the premiums, the institution should consider the payments operating expenditures and not report increases in the cash surrender value as gifts.

4\. Regardless of whether the donor or the University pays the premiums on the policy it owns, the difference between the cash value and the insurance company's settlement at the death of the donor should not be reported as a gift but rather as a gain on the disposition of assets.

5\. In those cases where the University receives the proceeds of an insurance policy in which it was named beneficiary but not owner, the full amount received will be reported as a gift.

6\. Gifts of insurance without cash surrender value will be recognized at full value but treated as Future Support (see below).

V. Future Support

• Documented bequest expectancies and some life insurance shall be credited to Future Support as follows.

1\. In the case of bequest expectancies, the documented value is credited to Future Support.

2\. The difference between the cash surrender value and the face value of a life insurance gift is credited to Future Support.

3\. In cases of life insurance without cash surrender value, the full face value is credited to Future Support.

VI. Government and Nongovernment Grants and Contracts

A. A differentiation must be made among gifts, grants, and contracts when reporting. Grant income from private, nongovernment sources should be included in the gift totals; contract revenue should not be included.

8\. A private grant is bestowed voluntarily and without expectation of any tangible compensation; it is donative in nature.

1\. Whereas II-Va. has the legal responsibility of using funds received as gifts and grants for the purpose specified by its donors, its obligation to the donor usually does not, and probably should not, exceed the limit of the gift.

2\. II.Va.'s responsibility under a contract, on the other hand, normally involves the generation of some tangible product or service, such as a report of research, often for the exclusive or proprietary use of the contracting agency and subject to certain standards of performance, and with the expectation of economic benefit to the grantor.

C. Government grants, whether local, state, federal, or foreign, are not to be included in the campaign gift totals.

VII. Exclusions

The following types of funds will be excluded from campaign report totals:

A. Gifts or pledges, outright and deferred, that have already been counted in previous campaigns, even if realized during the campaign or the campaign reporting period.

B. Investment earnings on gifts, even if accrued during the time period of the campaign and even if required within the terms specified by a donor source.

C. Earned-income transfer payments from medical or analogous practice plans.

D. Surplus-income transfers from ticket-based operations.

I. Gift Policy Committee

A. Responsibility

Approved crediting policies will cover the majority of anticipated commitments. However, in the event that situations or opportunities occur during the course of the campaign for which these guidelines are inadequate, there will be a Gift Policy Committee empowered to resolve any questions regarding acceptance, valuation, and crediting.

The Gift Policy Committee will approve or disapprove all gifts-inkind to the University that are not immediately convertible to cash and all gifts-in-kind that have donor-imposed restrictions as to their disposition. As necessary, recommendations of the Gift Policy Committee will be forwarded to the Board of Visitors for final approval.

B. Membership

The Gift Policy Committee will consist of the following:

1\. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

2\. Vice President and Provost

3\. Vice President for Development

4\. Associate Vice President for Development

5\. Treasurer

6\. Assistant Vice President for Development

7\. Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences

8\. Director of Gift Accounting

C. Meeting Schedule

I. Meetings of the Gift Policy Committee will be called as necessary by the Associate Vice President for Development, who will serve as chair of the committee.

II. Gift Limitations

Gifts with limitations based on race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual preference, or national origin cannot be accepted by the University of Virginia, except in instances where, after review by the Gift Policy Committee and the General Counsel, such gifts are determined to be non-discriminatory and legally permissible.

The following gift stipulations also cannot be accepted by the University for scholarships, fellowships, or other financial aid funds:

A. Those in which a donor designates a specific recipient;

B. Those designating as recipient the donor's relatives or descendants;

C. Those based on the future employment of the recipient.

III. Gift Recording

The Gift Accounting Department of the University Development Office shall oversee the receipt, recording, depositing, and acknowledgment of all private contributions to the University. Gift Accounting, in turn, will assure that appropriate departments, schools, or.fund-raising units are notified in a timely fashion regarding contributions restricted for their use.

ATTACHMENT BPOLICIES FOR REVIEWPART A - CURRENT POLICIESTITLE OF POLICYPART B - OBSOLETE POLICIESTITLE OF POLICY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\*\*\*\*Index

Buildings and Grounds       Parking

Policy Location: Board Minutes, April 12, 1997

Title: Delegation of Authority to Establish Parking Fees

Action Text: RESOLVED by The Board of Visitors that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to establish parking rates for faculty, staff, students, vendors and other persons purchasing parking permits on University Grounds; RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors ratifies all existing parking rates; RESOLVED FURTHER that this resolution shall supersede any and all previous resolutions pertaining to this matter.

Adopted By: Full board

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Delegated Authority: See above Action Text

Recommended By:

Supersedes: All previous policies

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Buildings and Grounds

Planning and Design

Vision Statement

Policy Location:

Title: A Vision Statement for the Planning and Design of the University of Virginia Building and Grounds

Action Text: The following statement expresses the basic intention of the Vision Statement:

There is one distinct goal: to restore the Founder's vision of the reciprocity between the academic and the physical plan of the University. Mr. Jefferson's vision for the University was based on the premise that the principles guiding the physical design and character of the institution are the same as those affecting its academic undertakings.

What can be said of the physical elements can also be said of the academic components... the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. And the composition is reworked as new circumstances and opportunities arise, but always according to criteria of rationality and clarity of purpose. When the parts fit together and create a recognizable whole, they form a university setting that is designed to enhance the academic experience."

Mr. Jefferson based his vision on the premise that the principles guiding the physical design and character of the University are the same as those affecting its academic undertakings. These principles produced a physical and academic program that were in a reciprocal relationship to one another. It is valued now as it was then as a remarkable arrangement of buildings and grounds supporting clear academic intentions. The rotunda, the pavilions, the hotels, the ranges, the alleys, gardens, lawn and terraces fit together to function efficiently and provide an inspiring setting. Each of these elements has a role to play in the overall scheme of things. It is not a collection of individual buildings. It is a composition, an ensemble, of buildings and the spaces between, all of them completely interdependent.

As it is with the physical setting so too is it with the academic scheme; Schools, degree programs, academic departments, research programs, courses, and tutorials; the classrooms, student residences, libraries, research laboratories, studios, and athletic fields; the faculty appointments, administrative officers, and staff -- all these are brought into a thoughtfully composed unity to serve the purposes, both largest and most various, of the university.

What can be said of the physical elements can also be said of the academic components: the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. Both the academic ensemble and the ensemble of facilities are composed of discrete units capable of being justified by citing the contribution each one makes to the purpose of the whole. And the composition is contrived, revised and reworked as new circumstances and opportunities arise, but always according to criteria of rationality and clarity of purpose.

All the parts fit together and create..a recognizable whole, and they form a university setting which is clearly designed to enhance the academic experience, to stimulate study and thought and research and collegiality, to foster the exchange of ideas and the discovery, protection, and dissemination of new knowledge.

Adopted By: Full Board

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes: Statement of April 19, 1991

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Compensation

Faculty

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, December 4, 1996

Title: Planning for Faculty Salary Increases

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to implement the financial plan for faculty salary increases.

Adopted By: Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Delegated Authority: See above Action Text

Recommended By: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Supersedes:

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Faculty

Mortgage Loans

Policy Location: Investment Subcommittee Minutes, April 2, 1996

Title: Approval of Termination of Faculty Mortgage Loan Program

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Faculty Mortgage Loan Program is hereby terminated, effective this date, in accordance with the \[following\] recommendations...

l. The Program will no longer be offered to new hires.

2\. Faculty members who currently hold mortgages would not be affected by any changes.

3\. Refinancing of loans at the end of 20 years would no longer be available to anyone.

4\. Current faculty members who meet the basic eligibility requirements, and who are still within the four year (from their hire date) window of eligibility, would still be able to obtain a loan, but at a full market interest rate.)

Adopted By:Finance Committee.

Authorization: ????

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes: All previous policies

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Insurance

Students

Health

Policy Location: Board Minutes, March 31, 1989

Title: Health Insurance for Students

Action Text: RESOLVED that effective September 1, 1989, it shall be the policy of the University to require all University of Virginia students (except those enrolled in the Division of Continuing Education) and all Clinch Valley College students to carry health insurance and that, in selecting an insurance plan, the student shall have a choice between an insurance plan sponsored by the University of Virginia Student Council or one that the student or his/her parents considers comparable to that plan.

Adopted By: Full board

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Investments

Endowment Fund

Piedmont Virginia Community College

Policy Location: Investment Subcommittee Minutes, April 2, 1996

Title: Approval of the Investment in the University Endowment

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to enter into an Agreement with the Piedmont Virginia Community College Educational Foundation (the PVCC Foundation) to allow the PVCC Foundation to invest its endowment funds in the University endowment.

Adopted By: Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Delegated Authority: See above Action Text

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Students

Registration

Charges

Policy Location:

Title: Change in University Regulations Concerning Registration and Payment of Charges

Action Text: Students who do not enroll at the University for a semester or more and who are not on an educational leave of absence, must be formally readmitted, regardless of whether they were on an approved leave of absence or not. In order to accomplish this readmission, they must be cleared by their academic dean, the department of student health, and the office of the dean of students. Application for readmission must be made to the academic dean's office of the student's school at least 60 days (30 days in the College of Arts and Sciences) (see Commerce for specific dates) in advance of the next University registration period. Students in the College will include with their applications (available in Garrett Hall) a statement that (1) addresses their readiness to return to full-time study, in light of any serious difficulties during their most recent enrollment (e.g. financial hardship, medical, personal); and (2) outlines over the remaining semesters those courses leading to the degree.

Registration

Students must complete final registration via the ISIS Telephone System in order to be considered duly enrolled students. Specific instructions are available each semester in the Course Offering Directory and on the World Wide Web (http://www.virginia.edu). The late registration period begins the day after the end of regular registration. Students who pre-enroll in courses but who do not complete the registration process will lose their places in these courses on the Friday immediately following final registration. The final deadline for registration is seven weeks after the first day of classes. Students who have not completed registration by this date will not be allowed to register for the semester, receive credit for the semester, or receive a degree during the semester. No student will be permitted to register after this time except m cases where the delay in registration was a result of University actions. Inability to pay tuition and fees by the deadlines imposed by the University bursar does not constitute an acceptable reason for registering late.

A late registration fee of $25 is charged to students who register after regular registration through the end of the 10th class meeting day of the semester. After the 10th class meeting day, a $50 late registration fee is charged.

Payment of tuition and fees is considered to be part of the registration process. Failure to pay tuition and fees by the dates established by the University Bursar will result in suspension from the University. See the section of this catalog on tuition and fees. Any student who registers assumes thereby an obligation to pay for that semester's tuition and fees.

All suspensions - financial, disciplinary, or academic - must be cleared before a student is permitted to register at the University. Students who are terminated for non-academic reasons during the semester and who seek reinstatement in the same semester are readmitted and reregistered by the Registrar in coordination with the student's dean's office. The student is required to present the termination clearance form approved by the termination authority to the Registrar prior to the tenth class day before the last day of scheduled classes. Students are not allowed to be readmitted or re-registered after this deadline and are not allowed to receive credit for that semester or to receive a degree in that semester.

Students who fail to register are not considered to be students at the University and are not certified as being enrolled at the University for any purpose. Students who register must enroll in at least the minimum of credits required by the pertinent school or have the registration canceled.

Repeated Courses

Courses may be repeated for credit only with the permission of students' dean's offices. The original course continues to appear on the official academic record and counts in the calculation of the grade point average. Regulations which apply to repeated courses may be found in the specific regulations for each school.

Adopted By:

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes: Policy of June 1, 197?

Notes: Category A

\*\*\*\*Index

Administration

President's Office

Entertainment

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, May 30, 1975

Title: Increase in the President's Entertainment Fund

Action Text: RESOLVED by The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President's Entertainment Fund shall be and it is hereby increased to $8,000 annually, effective July 1, 1975.

Adopted By: Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B

\- Recommend abolition of this policy. The budget for this account is set during the normal University budget process. The Board of Visitors approves the budget annually at its June meeting, so a separate policy is unnecessary.

\*\*\*\*Index

Alumni Association

Memoranda of Understanding

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, July 25, 1989, with Attachment

Title: Memoranda of Understanding with the University of Virginia Alumni Association

Action Text: RESOLVED that the Vice President for Business and Finance be and he is hereby authorized to enter into memoranda of understanding with the Alumni Association consistent with the 1989-90 budget as approved by the Board of Visitors.

Attachment: This Memorandum of Agreement is made this 26th day of July, 1989, by and between the University of Virginia (hereinafter "University) and the University of Virginia Alumni Association (hereinafter "Alumni Association.).

In accordance with this Agreement, the University shall pay the sums as defined and set forth below for the specific purposes stated. The University and the Alumni Association hereby agree upon all the terms and conditions of the following payments to be made by the University to the Alumni Association.

1\. Annual appropriation in general support of the activities of the Alumni Association in the amount of $25,000.

2\. Payments for Services:

a. To reimburse the Alumni Association for the incremental cost of sending specified issues of the Alumni News magazine to the following individuals:

(1) All alumni who graduated more than five years from the issue date who are not members of the Alumni Association will be sent the May/June and November/December issues.

(2) All non-alumni parents of currently enrolled, full-time undergraduate students will be sent the September/October and May/June issues.

(3) All graduates who are not members of the Alumni Association will be sent all issues for the first five years after their graduation.

Incremental cost is defined as all variable printing costs including the cost of printing machine usage, paper, and postage and handling costs.

The calculation for payment due will be made as follows: total incremental costs of the magazine are divided by the number of issues printed to determine per copy cost, and this result is multiplied by the number of additional issues sent according to the parameters listed above. The total estimated annual incremental cost to send all issues according to this Agreement is $80,000.

b. A fixed annual fee of 50% of the annual salary cost of one mutually agreed upon Alumni Association professional staff member.

c. A fixed annual fee of $20,000 will be paid to assist with the cost of maintaining the computerized records of the Alumni Association. This fee will be re-negotiated annually with the Vice President for Business and Finance and the Vice President for Development based on increases in cost of maintaining computerized records.

Actual payment to the Alumni Association of all of the above referenced fees for services will be made on a quarterly basis commencing October 1, 1989 with a final payment due June 30. 1990. Payment will be subject to the University's receipt of an invoice, generated by the Alumni Association, which will be delivered to the University at least fifteen (15) days prior to the payment due date.

3\. As approved by the Board of Visitors resolution dated March 26, 1946 and as amended June 5, 1981, commissions shall be paid on vending services at a rate of five percent (5%) of gross sales of food and drink machines located in academic and administrative buildings with the exception of Newcomb Hall and the University of Virginia Health Science Center. Direct payment will be made quarterly by the Assistant Vice President for Auxiliary Services of the University. Estimated commission for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1990 totals $35,000. (See Agreement Attached)

4\. The following payments will be made to support the Jefferson Scholars Program:

a. Income earned by the Jefferson Scholars endowment will be distributed annually to the Alumni Association by the University's Investment Office, which manages the endowment, to be applied to support the Jefferson Scholars program in accordance with donor designations. Estimated income for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1990 totals $390,000.

b. A total of $50,000 will be paid for the fiscal year 1989-90 from budgeted University funds.

5\. The University has designated the University of Virginia Alumni Association as the agency authorized to enter into an agreement with the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles for participation in DMV's College Plate Program. A report of royalties received under the Department of Motor Vehicle College Plate program and how they are to be expended will be provided to the Vice President for Business and Finance.

6\. By separate agreement (attached) the University will pay the Alumni Association 6% of gross sales for events catered at Alumni Hall by Dining Services (ARA). Such payments will be made by the Assistant Vice President of Auxiliary Services on a quarterly basis.

7\. The University will pay to the Alumni Association the difference between actual Alumni Association unrestricted annual 1990, and $500,000. This payment, if required, will be made within thirty (30) days of the University's fiscal year end, June 30, 1990, on the basis of a statement from the Alumni Association. The Alumni Association will base its request on verifiable records and reports which are to be made available to the Vice President for Business and Finance for his review.

8\. The University will remit to the Alumni Association 50% of the royalties received from sales by the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia licensed goods and materials.

This agreement is subject to annual review and revision prior to July 1st of each year.

Adopted By: Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - This Board policy has been replaced by an administrative agreement between the University and the Alumni Association to reimburse the Alumni Association for certain services that it provides to the University.

\*\*\*\*Index

Alumni Association

Professional Schools Membership

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, May 30, 1975

Title: Alumni Association Membership Program

Text: The Finance Committee approved the following program.

Action Text: The University agrees to pay the General Alumni Association $1.00 per year for each member of each of the professional school alumni associations if the General Alumni Association will agree to the following:

1\. That the Alumni Association will list such individuals as members with the designation (P) after their names.

2\. Such membership will not entitle Professional School alumni to receive all issues of the Alumni News.

3\. Professional School alumni will be welcomed at Alumni Hall as members of the Alumni Association.

4\. The Alumni Association will discontinue soliciting funds from members of the professional schools alumni associations; and further will not attempt to persuade professional school alumni to join the General Alumni Association other than by Life Membership ads regularly appearing in the Alumni News.

Adopted By:Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - This policy never went into effect and is therefore obsolete.

\*\*\*\*Index

Real Estate

Delegation

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, June 3, 1971

Title: Authorization for the Comptroller To Purchase Property

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to commit the University to the purchase of real estate with the approval of any one member of the Finance Committee.

Adopted By: Finance Committee

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To: Comptroller

Delegated Authority: See above Action Text

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - This policy on authorizing the purchase of real property is not present practice.

\*\*\*\*Index

Real Estate

Acquisition and Disposition

Policy Location: Board Minutes, Oct. 4, 1980 with Attachment

Title: Procedure for Acquisition and Disposition of Real Estate as Endowment Assets

Action Text: RESOLVED that the procedures for Acquisition and Disposition of Real Estate as Endowment Assets be and they are hereby adopted.

Attachment:

ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY FOR THE ENDOWMENT\*

l. By gift:

a. Before accepting a gift or real estate, the Vice President for Business and Finance will:

(1) Obtain two appraisals of the property,

(2) Decide whether the property should be placed in the endowment, accepted for other purposes or rejected.

(3) Develop a written plan for retention or disposition of the property, which plan, as it may be revised from time to time, will accompany the recommendations that follow.

b. The recommendation of the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the advice of the Legal Adviser, will be submitted to the President for approval.

c. The President's recommendation will be submitted to the Finance Committee of the Board for its review and recommendation to the Board of Visitors for approval.

d. The Board of Visitors' decision, if to accept the gift, will be submitted to the Division of Engineering and Buildings for its review, and for approval by the Governor or his delegate under Section 2.1-507 of the Code of Virginia

2\. By devise:

a. After receiving a devise of real estate, the Vice President for Business and Finance will: (1) Obtain two appraisals of the property; (2) Decide whether the property should be placed in the endowment or retained for other purposes; (3) Develop a written plan for retention or disposition of the property, which plan, as it may be revised from time to time, will accompany the recommendations that follow.

b. The recommendation of the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the advice of the Legal Adviser' will be submitted to the President for approval.

c. The President's recommendation will be submitted to the Finance Committee of the Board for its review and recommendation to the Board of Visitors for approval.

d. The Board of Visitors' decision, if to retain the devise, will be submitted to the Division of Engineering and Buildings for its review, and if the Governor so directs, the devise will be disclaimed pursuant to the appropriate statutes.

3\. By purchase:

a. Before purchasing real estate as endowment assets, the Vice President for Business and Finance will:

(1) Obtain expert advice as to whether the real estate should be acquired and to assist in the University's development of a written plan for management of the property. The plan, as it may be revised from time to time, will accompany the recommendations that follow.

(2) Obtain two appraisals of the property.

b. The recommendation of the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the advice of the Legal Adviser, will be submitted to the President for approval.

c. The President's recommendation will be submitted to the Finance Committee of the Board for its review and recommendation to the Board of Visitors for approval.

d. The Board of Visitors' decision, if to purchase the property, will be submitted to the Division of Engineering and Buildings for its review, and for approval by the Governor or his delegate under Section 2 1-507 of the Code of Virginia.

II. DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY IN THE ENDOWMENT

1\. Before disposing of real property, two appraisals will be obtained and the University will obtain expert advice as to whether the property should be disposed of, and for assistance in the University's development of a. written plan for disposition of the property. This plan will examine different alternatives (including, end, sealed bids, public auction, listing with realtors, and negotiation) and their suitability for the proposed disposition. The plan, as it may be revised from time to time, will accompany the recommendations that follow.

2\. The recommendation of the Vice President for Business and Finance, with the advice of the Legal Adviser, will be submitted to the President for approval

3\. The President's recommendation, if to dispose of the property, will be submitted to the Finance Committee of the Board for its review and recommendation to the Board of Visitors for approval.

4\. The University's acceptance of any offer for the purchase of the property shall be contingent upon review by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and approval by the Governor. Any offer which the University accepts for the purchase of the property shall be reviewed by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and approved by the Governor. Any deed executed by the University shall be submitted for review by the Division of Engineering and Buildings and for approval by the Governor, pursuant to Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia.

Adopted By: Full board

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - Citations to laws and titles are outdated. In addition, State law and regulations govern the procedures for acquiring and disposing of real estate, so a board policy is unnecessary.

\*\*\*\*Index

Students

Commerce School

Special Fee

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, June l, 1972

Title: Establishment of Special Fee in School of Commerce

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that we recommend to the full Board the adoption of the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established for students in the School of Commerce, a special fee of $5.00 per session to provide the Commerce School Council with funds to be used on behalf of students in the School.

Adopted By: ????

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By: Finance Committee

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - Special fees are approved by the Board in the annual tuition-setting process.

\*\*\*\*Index

Students

Domicile

Virginia Status

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, April 6, 1973

Title: Delegation of Powers to the President Relative to Decisions Regarding Domicile

Text: WHEREAS no procedure for appeal from decisions of the University Committee on Virginia Status of University Students to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been established; and WHEREAS decisions by this Committee are now being contested upon constitutional and other grounds likely to lead to litigation in which the Rector and Visitors will be a party; and WHEREAS appeals from these decisions may be numerous and will involve issues of law and fact concerning which the President of the University may make final administrative determinations on behalf of the Rector and Visitors; RESOLVED that the President be and he is hereby authorized to hear and finally determine for the Rector and Visitors appeals from decisions of the University Committee on Virginia Status of University Students and make final dispositions thereof; FURTHER RESOLVED that the President is required to report his dispositions of all appeals to the Finance Committee at the next regular meeting of the Rector and Visitors following his determinations.

Adopted By: ????

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To: President

Delegated Authority: See italics in Text above

Recommended By: Finance Committee

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - This policy has been pre-empted by State law which requires the implementation of an administrative appeals procedure. An appeals procedure is in effect which authorizes the President to hear appeals from the Committee on Virginia Status.

\*\*\*\*Index

Students

Law School

Special Fee

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, April 6, 1973

Title: Special Fee in the School of Law for the Barrister.

Action Text: RESOLVED by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that we recommend to the full Board the adoption of the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established for students in the School of Law a special fee of $5.00 per session to be used for the publication and distribution of the yearbook, The Barrister, to every student in the Law School, effective for the 1973-74 session and thereafter.

Adopted By: ????

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By: Finance Committee

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - Special fees are approved by the Board in the annual tuition-setting process.

\*\*\*\*Index

Students

University Affiliated Organizations

Tax Exempt Status

Policy Location: Finance Committee Minutes, June 2, 1978

Title: Report on University Affiliated Organizations

Text: The Finance Committee "determined that it had no objection" to the following procedure.

Attachment: \[In part\] During recent months the University has become increasingly concerned about the use by student organizations of the University's tax exempt status for income tax, charitable gift, and state sales tax purposes. Several recent audits of local businesses by the State Division of Taxation indicate that many student groups and organizations rely on their unofficial relationship with the University of Virginia as a basis of exemption from the state sales tax. Contributors to such groups and organizations treat their gifts as tax-deductible, even though they are not made payable to the University of Virginia. Various organizations have sponsored activities which involve the sale of goods and services without ever acquiring the necessary licenses, filing the required tax forms, or paying income tax. These problems have necessitated that the University establish a policy regarding which groups and organizations may continue to use their relationship to the University as a basis for tax exempt status. As of July 1, 1978 only those student groups and organizations which have become University Affiliated Organizations (UAO) will be included on the University's official list of organizations permitted to rely upon the University of Virginia's tax exempt status. No separately incorporated organization will be eligible to qualify as a University Affiliated Organization...

Student organizations may: qualify provided such organizations receive student activity fund support and also meet... educational purpose criterion.... This memorandum does not change the requirements or procedures for the allocation of student fee funds. Consequently, student activity fund allocations will continue to be handled in the same manner as in the past.

Any unincorporated student group or organization which feels that it meets these requirements may apply to become a UAO by submitting a request to the University Comptroller on the appropriate form. These forms may be obtained at the Office of the University Comptroller or at Garrett Hall. A copy of the group's constitution, and a copy of its most recently approved itemized annual budget should be attached with the request. If the University Comptroller determines that the group meets the requirements mentioned above, a Memorandum of Understanding will be sent to the group to be reviewed and accepted. The group will be included on the University's official list of University Affiliated Organizations upon receipt by the University Comptroller of the executed Memorandum.

Student groups which are included on the University's official list of University Affiliated Organizations will be required to confirm their status annually and to provide an itemized annual budget and the names and local addresses of all the new constitutional officers. Details pertaining to the renewal procedure will be provided to University Affiliated Organizations in March of each year beginning in 1979.

Adopted By:

Authorization:

Delegation(s) To:

Recommended By:

Supersedes:

Notes: Category B - This relationship with student organizations is no longer used. The University now has a contractual relationship with student groups which is reflected in the Contracted Independent Organization (CIO) agreement.

INVESTMENT POLICIES REVIEWINVESTMENT POLICIES REVIEWTITLE OF POLICYASSET CLASS FUNDSAsset Class FundsReal estate FundGrowth & Income Pooled Endowment Fund
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Core Equity Fund

Satellite Equity Fund

Return Objective

To provide long-term capital appreciation. Specifically, to outperform the S&P 500 Index and the Wilshire 5000, net of all fees and expenses, over rolling 5 year periods.

To provide long-term capital appreciation and added diversification when combined with the Core Equity Fund. The Specific objective is to outperform the S&P 500 and the Wilshire 5000 by 200 basis points, net of all fees and expenses, over rolling 5-year periods

Benchmark

S&P 500, Wilshire 5000

S&P 500, Wilshire 5000 +200 Basis Points

Distributions

Monthly

Monthly

Investment Vehicles

The managers within the fund will normally invest in domestic and/or foreign common stocks. Such managers may, at their discretion, hold investment reserves of either money market instruments or bonds without limitation in terms of asset size or period of time. Use of derivative and short positions require prior approval by the Investment Subcommittee. The use of derivative instruments is governed by the "Investment Guidelines for the USe of Derivatives." Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo has been granted approval to hold up to 25% of its portfolio in index futures and short stocks.

The fund will make strategic investments with managers of alternative asset classes such as venture capital and distressed securities and with alternative investment styles, such as risk arbitrage and hedge funds.

Risk

The risk of the fund will be highly correlated with general stock market risk

It is expected that the returns ob the fund will be more volatile than the returns in the domestic stock market but will be less highly correlated with the returns of that market as compared with the Core Equity Fund.

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Ranges for Asset Classes and Subclasses

50%\\65%\\100%

Domestic Equity

0%\\35%\\50%\\

International equity

0%\\None\\20%

Reserves (Bonds/Cash)

0%\\17%\\NA

Venture Capital

0%\\40%\\NA

Hedge Funds

0%\\13%\\NA

Risk Arbitrage

0%\\30%\\NA

Distressed Securities

0%\\None\\NA

Leveraged Buyouts

0%\\None\\NA

Other

Bond Fund

Cash Fund

Return Objective

To provide a hihg level of current income and to act as a hedge against deflation. Specifically, to outperform the Lehman Borthers Government/ Corporate Bond Index, net of fees, over rollings 5-year periods

To provide the highest level of current income consistent with preservation of principal. Specifically, to outperform the benchmark, net of fees, over rolling one-year periods

Benchmark

Lehman Brothers Gov't/Corp (Lehman Brothers Aggregate

Six-Month U.S. Treasury Bill Index

Distributions

Monthly

Monthly (on the last business day of the month)

Investment Vehicles

The managers within the fund will invest in domestic and foreign government and corporate bonds and faculty mortgages. aN emphasis will be placed on investments in high-quality, non-callable, relatively longer term securities to ensure the deflation hedging characteristics of the fund. Up to twenty percent of the fund may be invested in alternative strategies that produce bond-like returns at similar levels of risk. The use of derivative instruments is governed by the "Investment Guidelines for the Use of Derivatives."

Same as Current Funds

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Portfolio Characteristics

Average Duration

60%\\100%\\150%

50%/100%/500%

Return Objectives

To provide a high level of current income in addition to equity appreciation. Specifically, to outperform the Russell Necreif Property Index over rolling 5 year periods

Benchmark

10% return; 50% S&P 500/50% Lehman Brothers Government/Corp; Russell-NCREIF Property Index

Investment Philosophy

Attempt to find distressed areas in the real estate market. Consideration will be given to overall diversification, but there are no targets.

Distributions

Monthly

Investment Vehicles

The fund may invest in private REITS, real estate limited partnerships, and other types of pooled real estate vehicles.

Return Objectives

To provide current income and capital appreciation consistent with the preservation of the purchasing power of the underlying assets. Specifically, to meet or exceed the average annual rate of inflation plus spending over rolling five-year periods and to outperform the benchmark composed of 75% S&P 500 and 25% Lehman Brothers Government Corporate.

Benchmark

75% S&P 500/25% LBGC (Lehman Brothers Aggregate) (Wilshire 5000)

Distributions

Class A Shares: (For general endowment assets) Distributions should average between 4% and 4.5% 44% of the previous June 30 market value, a percentage which both capital market history and theory suggest would be sustainable over the long-term. To provide a predictable stream of income, the dollar .distribution is targeted to grow at\_an average annual rate of 4%. However, if in October of any given year, the projected distribution is greater than 5 1/2% or less than 3 1/2% of the previous June 30 market value of the 6fewt Ineeme-F-Rd Pooled Endowment Fund, the Finance Commjttee will review the situation and consider reducing or increasing the per share spending rate. Class B Shares: (For endowment assets which are eligible for supplements by the Commonwealth, as well as those assets which qualify for inclusion under the Faculty. Salary Initiative:) Distributions are targeted to be 6% of the previous June 30 market value and shall grow at an average annual growth rate of 4% per year. If in October of any given year projected distributable income is greater than 6 1/2% or less than 5 1/2% of the previous June 30 market value of the Balanced Asset Fund Pooled Endowment Fund, the Finance Committee will review the situation and consider reducing or increasing the per share spending rate. The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors may, from time to time, impose fees associated with securing and administrating endowment funds. Note: The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer has the authority to approve exceptions to the general spending rules within a range of 4% to 6% for endowment assets up to $2,000,000 $500,099. The Investment Subcommittee must approve exceptions to the general spending rules for endowments greater than $2,000,000 $500,000 or for rates outside the 4% to 6% range.

Investment Vehicles

The Fund will achieve its asset allocation objectives by investing in the unitized Core Equity, Satellite Equity, Real Estate, Bond, and Cash Funds.

Target Asset Allocation

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Core Equity Fund

40%\\45%\\85%

Satellite Equity Fund

0%\\25%\\30%

Real Estate Fund

0%\\10%\\20%

Bond Fund

15%\\20%\\60%

Cash Fund

0%\\0%\\ 10%

Venture Capital

0%\\N/A3%\\ 5%

Hedge Funds

0%\\N/A 10% \\ 15%

Distressed Securities

0%\\N/A 4%\\10%

Risk Arbitrage

0%\\N/A8%\\10%

CURRENT FUNDS

Return Objective

To provide the maximum current income consistent with the need for safety and liquidity. Specifically, to outperform a composite index consisting of 60% 91-Day T-Bills and 40% Merrill Lynch Governments, U.S. Treasury Short-term Index (1.2.99 years).

Benchmark

60% 91-Day T-Bills/40% Merrill Lynch Governments, U.S. Treasury Short-Term Index (1-2.99 years).

Investment Philosophy

Active portfolio management and trading will be employed to acheive the return objectives. Strict quality standards havebeen established to minimize credit risk. In order to protect against or capitalize on sharp fluctuations in interest rates, trading may be substantial at times. Emphasis will be placed on short-term, highly marketable securities to insure adequate liquidity.

Investment Vehicles

The fund may invest in the following instruments, in compliance with Code of Virginia Investment Guidelines • Savings accounts approved for Commonwealth of Virginia deposits. • Repurchase agreements, collateralized by U.S. Treasury or Agency securities • Certificates of Deposit and Bank Deposit Notes issued by any Virginia Bank rated A,A/B, or B by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank and Watch Bank/Thrift Ratings. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in CD's issued by any single bank. • Commercial paper issued by domestic corporations having a credit rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. Dollar denominated commercial paper issued by foreign issuers with a rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in the commerical paper of any single issur. • Treasury Notes and Bonds. • Obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States. • Corporate notes and bonds rated A or better by S&P and Moody's and having a duration of no more than five years. • Asset-backed securities with a duration of no more than five years and a rating of no less than AAA by two rating agencies, one of which must be either Moody's or S&P. • Bankers' Acceptances issued by any domestic bank rated B/C or better by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Bankers' Acceptance issued by international banks with a bank rating of B/C or better and a country rating of I. Fully hedged obligations of sovereign governments with an Aaa rating by Moddy's and AAA by S&P. • Short-term money market funds which invest exclusively in securities approved for current fund investments. • Common Fund Bond Fund • Common Fund Intermediate Cash Fund • Municipal bonds, either general obligation or revenue, rated AA or better • Subject to the approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer internal loans to University Departments and Activities to be repaid from operating and capital funds budgeted for this purpose. No more than a total of 10 million shall be invested in internalloans at any time

Return Objectives

To provide a high level of current income, relative to equities. Specifically, to outperform the Lehman Borthers Government Bond Index over rolling five-year periods

Benchmark

Lehman Brothers Government

Investment Philosophy

Funds will be managed within duration units with little turnover expected. Current coupon and call protection will be emphasized to assure a high and stable level of income.

Minimum\\Target\\Maximum

Investment Vehicles U.S. Treasury & Agencies

100%\\None\\100%

Portfolio Characteristics (Relative to Benchmark) Duration

60%\\100%\\150%

investment Objective

The primary objective is to comply with the terns of the Trust Agreement in regard to specific income requirements. The secondary objective is to preserve and enhance the real (inflationadjusted) purchasing power of the principal and to provide for growth in income.

Investment Philosophy

Investments will be made from a stable long-term perspective with moderate turnover. Although investments for individual Trusts need not be fully diversified by asset class, diversification should be sufficient to meet fiduciary standards. Extreme positions or very opportunistic styles should be avoided. Where the trust document allows, charitable remainder unitrust and annuity trust assets will be invested according to the long-term endowment asset allocation target of 75 percent stocks and 25 percent bonds. Net income trust assets will be allocated between equities and bonds according to trust income requirements.

Investment Vehicles

The following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Powe-Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds. Portfolios of individual common stocks may be created on rare occasions to meet specific requirements of the Agreement with the approval of the Executive Vice President and, at his discretion, the Investment SubCommittee of the Board of Visitors.

Investment Objective

The primary objective of the Fund is to provide a stable stream of income (interest and dividends). A secondary objective is to provide for growth in income and principal. The income target (in a percentage form) for the Fund will be set on an annual basis based on market conditions.

Investment Philosophy

Investments will be made from a stable long- term perspective with moderate turnover. Extreme position and very opportunistic styles should be avoided. The Pooled Income Fund will be divided into the -"equity portion" and the "fixed income portion". The "equity portion" is designed to provide long-term capital appreciation. It will normally represent 15-20% of total assets at market value. The "equity portion" should outperform the S&P 500 stock average net of fees as measured over running five-year periods. The purpose of the "fixed income portion" is to provide a high and stable level of current income and hedge against deflation. The "fixed income portion" will normally represent 80-85% of total assets. The investment objective of the "fixed income fund" is to outperform the Lehman Brothers Government/Corporate Index net of fees over running five-periods. Asset allocation of the Fund will be adjusted as necessary in order to achieve the yearly income targets. The "fixed income portion" should be invested in intermediate bonds with money market instruments being used rarely, if at all. The following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds.

Investment Vehicles

Private placements, equity real estate, direct mortgages and venture capital are not to be purchased or sold by the Fund.

Investment Objective

The primary objective shall be to provide a reasonable levelof investment income consistent with the need for liquidity and safety of the principal

Investment Philosophy

Investments will be made to provide incremental income over the broker rebate rate, which is typically the Federal Funds rate. Maintaining liquidity and saety of principal will be emphasized

Investment Vehicles

The Fund may invest in following authorized investments: • Repurchase agreements with those institutions listed as approved borrowers provided such agreemnts are memorialized in writing. All repurchase agreement transactions will be collateralized, either by delivery versus payment or tri-party arrangement. All repurchase agreement transactions will be collaterilized, either by delivery versus payment or tri-party arrangement. All repurchase agreement collateral must be consistent with securities approved for direct investment with the exception of any maturity restrictions • U.S. Treasury obligations or obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States. No final maturity may exceed one year expect floating rates notes which may not exceed three years. • Commercial paper issued by domestic corporations having a credit rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in the commercial paper of any single issuer • Corporate notes and bonds rated A or better by S&P and Moody's and having a final maturity not exceeding one year except floatingrate notes which may not exceed three • Banker's Acceptances issued by any domestic bank rated B/C or better by Thompson BankWatch, Inc. Banker's Acceptances issued by international banks with a bank rating of B/C or better and a country rating of I. • Municipal bonds, rated AA or better by S&P and Moody's, either general obligation or revenue. No final maturity can exceed one year except floating rate notes which may not exceed three years. • Short-term money market funds which invest exclusively in securities approved for the investment of security lending collateral • Any securities consistent in character to range floaters or dual index notes are not considered acceptable investments for cash collateral regardless of maturity, issuer, or government guarantee, real or implied.

INVESTMENT GUIDELINES FOR THE USE OF DERIVATIVES

Background

The use of derivatives in the University of. Virginia's investment program provides an effective and cost-efficient method of controlling the risk/reward profile of the various portfolios. The following guidelines are tailored to allow for the use of derivatives in their risk-controlling capacity. The use of derivatives solely for speculative purposes is prohibited.

For the purposes of these guidelines, derivative is defined as any security whose price is determined by the price movement of some other asset. Although derivatives encompass a very broad spectrum of investment vehicles, it is useful to classify them according to two generic categories:

I. Instruments that create an artificial exposure to an asset class (such as S&P 500 stock index futures); and

2\. Complex variations of traditional securities (such as bonds that pay interest-only).

Certain non-exchange traded derivatives such as forward foreign currency contracts are characteristic of the first category as they typically are used to provide exposure to a particular asset, e.g. converting U.S. dollars into another currency or a foreign currency into U.S. dollars. The second category includes securities which are publicly traded as well as privately negotiated derivatives such as swaps.

It is not useful to attempt to classify the riskiness of any one derivative instrument in isolation. The riskiness of any derivative is based on whether or not its characteristics and intended use is consistent with the return objectives and risk constraints of the portfolio. In addition, the focus should not be on the risk of the individual derivative security but rather how the derivative alters the risk of the overall portfolio.

This policy sets forth the parameters for the use of derivatives with regard to separately managed accounts. The guidelines for the use of derivatives in limited partnerships would be delineated in the partnership documents and must be agreed upon before the investment is made.

Core Equity Fund

Derivatives may be used by managers in the Core Equity portfolio for the following purposes:

I. Hedging Benchmark Risk: Hedging is defined as the investment in an asset to reduce the overall risk of the portfolio. Hedging benchmark risk is accomplished by taking a short position in a derivative that replicates the portfolio benchmark (e.g. shorting the S&P 500 or other stock indices). Benchmark risk may be hedged up to 25% of the market value of a manager's portfolio. Exchange traded stock index futures and options on those futures are permissible. Use of futures or options on instruments that are not consistent with the portfolio benchmark are not permissible.

2\. Hedging Currency Risk: Core Equity managers may invest in foreign stocks and are authorized to hedge currency risk either fully or partially. Managers may hedge either directly or employ cross hedging (using one currency as a proxy for another, such as hedging German marks with - European currency units). Exchange traded futures and options on futures, options, and forward contracts may be used for this purpose.

3\. Establishing Asset Class Exposure: Core Equity managers may use derivatives to establish a position in a market subject to two restrictions:

A. The derivative position must serve as a substitute for establishing a direct position in a permissible market or security.

B. No leverage is used. A manager establishing a long position in a futures market must hold cash or cash equivalents in the portfolio equal to the market value of the futures position. Modest amounts of leverage may be created by market fluctuations and will be monitored by the Treasurer's Office.

4\. Yield Enhancement: Core Equity managers may generate incremental income by writing covered calls on securities held in the portfolio. Naked, i.e. uncovered, call writing is prohibited.

5\. Use of Derivatives as an Equity Substitute: From time to time, Core Equity managers may want to reduce their exposure to stocks. Rather than hedging the equity exposure, they may desire to invest in other assets. Certain derivative securities such as equity-linked notes, structured notes, or mortgage derivatives may at times, on a relative value basis, be an attractive alternative to stocks. The value in these securities could be due to inefficiencies in a market that may not exist in the domestic equity market. These inefficiencies may cause certain securities to trade below their intrinsic value. Core Equity managers may use fixed income derivatives, with a market value limit of 10% of the portfolio, provided they do not significantly alter the risk/reward profile of the portfolio with regard to the portfolio benchmark.

Separate account managers shall report all derivative positions to the Treasurer's Office monthly.

Bond Fund

Derivatives in the bond fund may be used for the following purposes:

1\. Hedging Currency Risk: Any portfolio within the bond fund that is authorized to invest in fixed income securities denominated in a foreign currency is authorized to have the currency risk fully or partially hedged. Managers may hedge either directly or employ cross hedging. The hedge ratio shall be determined by the manager. Exchange traded futures and options on futures, options, and forward foreign currency contracts are permissible investment vehicles for hedging currency risk.

2\. Establishing Asset Class Exposure: Bond fund managers may use derivatives to establish a position in a market subject to the following restrictions:

A. The derivative position serves as a substitute for establishing a direct position in a permissible market or security.

B. No leverage is employed. A manager establishing a long position in a futures market must hold cash or cash equivalents in the portfolio equal to the market value of the futures position. Modest amounts of leverage may be created by market fluctuations and will be monitored by the Treasurer's Office.

3\. Yield Enhancement: Bond Fund managers may enhance yield by writing covered calls. Naked; i.e. uncovered, call writing is prohibited.

4\. Duration Modification: Portfolio duration may be modified, subject to the duration constraints of each portfolio, by buying or selling exchange traded futures contracts on fixed income securities.

5\. Use of Mortgage Derivatives and Other Derivative Fixed Income Securities: Subject to the investment guidelines set forth for each portfolio within the Bond Fund, mortgage derivatives such as CMO's, and structured notes are permissible, provided they do not alter the portfolio duration outside of the approved parameters. The use of these securities should not significantly alter the risk characteristics of the portfolio in a manner that is inconsistent with the portfolio return benchmark and investment objectives. Securities that are intentionally structured in a manner whereby a value other than par value could ultimately be redeemed upon final maturity are prohibited (e.g., range floaters).

Separate account managers shall report-all derivative positions to the Treasurer\`s Office monthly.

Satellite Equity and Satellite Bond Funds

The Satellite Equity and Satellite Bond Funds may invest in certain limited partnerships that use derivatives. strategies to a significant extent. The policy with regard to the use of derivatives for each manager within the Satellite Equity and Satellite Bond Funds will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to make certain that it is consistent with the managers' stated investment objectives.

Real Estate Fund

Real Estate limited partnership documents will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to make certain that any use of derivatives is consistent with the stated objective of the fund. Use of derivatives is expected to be very limited.

Other

Any use of derivatives by an investment manager that is not explicitly addressed in this policy requires prior approval by the Treasurer's Office. All such uses shall be reported to the Investment Subcommittee at their next meeting.

REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE FACULTY HOME MORTGAGE LOAN PROGRAM

(As amended by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors effective March 25,1991, and further amended by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors effective April 2, 1996)

The University of Virginia Faculty Home Mortgage Loan Program was modified as of April 2, 1996, for eligible faculty members (i.e., tenured or tenure-track faculty, who are ranked assistant professor or above, with at least a three-year appointment who began work prior to April 2, 1996) and was eliminated for faculty members who began or will begin work after April 2, 1996. Eligible faculty members will continue to have four (4) years from the date on which they became eligible to apply for a loan.

The Program is designed to assist faculty in purchasing a house or condominium in Charlottesville/Albemarle County. Prior to purchasing a house/condominium, applicants should contact the Office of the Treasurer (804/982-2868) at the University of Virginia. If the intended purchase is a condominium, additional guidelines apply and are available from the Office of the Treasurer.

I. Three mortgage options are offered (see #2 for value determination guidelines\]: a. $65,000 to $100,000 on a First Deed of Trust with a maximum loan to value ratio of 90%; b. $45,000 to $65,000 on a Second Deed of Trust with a maximum loan to value ratio of 90%; or c. $35,000 on a Second Deed of Trust with a maximum loan to value ratio of 95%, given that the purchase price of the home does not exceed $200,000.

2\. Houses shall be appraised as follows: a. For first mortgages, one appraisal is required by the University to be conducted by an appraiser selected by the University. The University reserves the right to require a second University appraisal should it be deemed necessary. The loan amount will be based on the lower of the purchase price or the appraised value. The cost of the appraisal, to be paid by the applicant at the time of loan application, is as follows: •$250 each for existing residential properties in Charlottesville/Albemarle County. • For houses under construction, a final inspection will be required per appraisal at an additional cost of $50.00 each for properties in Charlottesville/Albemarle County. • Appraisals of condominiums and other unusual properties will be negotiated separately. b. For second mortgages, the University will attempt to obtain the first lender's appraisal. In- addition, a second appraisal is required by the University, to be made by an appraiser selected by the University, pursuant to the guidelines for first mortgages. The loan amount will be based on the lower of the purchase price or the average of the two appraisals. If, however, the University is unable to obtain a copy of the first lender's appraisal, the University reserves the right to require a second University appraisal should it be deemed necessary.

3\. Housing payments, including principal, interest, taxes and insurance on the first mortgage, and second mortgage, if applicable, cannot exceed 28% of gross monthly income (note: the University does not escrow for taxes and insurance). Housing payments, plus other debts/monthly payments, cannot exceed 36% of gross monthly income.

4\. Interest rates are changed daily and are comparable to local rates. For the current rate, please call the Office of the Treasurer. Applicants may lock into a rate for a maximum of 60 days. If for any reason the loan does not close within 60 days of the initial lock-in period, the initial guaranteed rate will expire and the applicant will receive the greater of (1) the original locked-in rate, or (2) the prevailing rate 5 days prior to the rescheduled closing.

5\. The University cannot consummate a loan more than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of the applicant-borrower's appointment to the faculty.

6\. At the time of application a person must be eligible for a University home mortgage loan.

7\. Maximum length of time for repayment of a loan is 20 years, although payments can be set up based on a 30year amortization schedule, with a balloon payment of the remaining balance falling due at the end of 20 years.

8\. An origination fee is due and payable at the time of closing. The fee is calculated as follows: Option #1, 1% of the loan amount; Option #2, 1.5% of the loan amount; Option #3, 2% of the loan amount.

9\. A document preparation and review fee in the amount of $250 is due and payable by the applicant- borrower at the time of closing. This fee is in addition to the origination fee (paragraph 6) and the appraisal fee (paragraph 2).

10\. Faculty members, who are eligible for the program, are limited to one University home mortgage loan per family during the period of employment. Eligibility expires four years after the date of becoming eligible for the loan program.

11\. Loans are limited to the purchase of homes to be occupied by the applicant-borrower (i.e., faculty member) as the primary residence. The University will not oarticinate in any refinancing. An applicant owning a residence in the University community not financed by a University mortgage may obtain a University mortgage on another residence provided the applicant-borrower agrees to sell and convey the present residence within six (6) months following the closing of the University mortgage; if the applicant-borrower fails to sell and convey the present residence within six (6) months, the holder may, at its option, call the University mortgage loan.

12\. A second mortgage will be made only as part of the total original financing package. A second mortgage commitment is contingent upon the first lien amount and monthly payment of interest and principal not exceeding amounts agreed upon between the borrower and the University.

13\. In the event the applicant-borrower (i.e., faculty member) moves out of the property, or upon sale or conveyance of the property, the unpaid balance shall become immediately due and payable at the option of the University.

14\. In the event the applicant-borrower ceases to be a full-time employee of the University, or ceases to meet other qualifications originally required to obtain the loan, the debt shall become immediately due and payable at the option of the University, except that a retiring faculty member will be given an extension of time in which to pay off a loan, equal to the lesser of (1) the original loan maturity date, or (2) an additional five years.

15\. To consummate a loan, the applicant-borrower will need the services of an attorney. Once the amount of the loan has been determined by the University, the applicant-borrower's attorney should communicate with the Special Counsel for the University, or his designee, in order to complete the transaction. All costs and expenses incurred by the University in connection with such mortgage loans shall be reimbursed to the University by the borrower upon request, but not later than at the time the loan is closed.

16\. To process and complete a loan requires a period of approximately 60 days from the date the application is submitted.

17\. Monthly payments are to be mailed as directed by the Mortgage Servicing Agent. Automatic drafting of mortgage payments can be arranged with the Mortgage Servicing Agent.

INTERNAL LOANS FROM CURRENT FUNDS

FUND OUTLINE

INTERNAL LOANS FROM CURRENT FUNDS

The Board of Visitors, at their January 26, 1990 meeting, amended current funds guidelines to include investments in internal loans to University departments and activities, subject to approval by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

These loans are typically used for temporary financing of construction.

• All internal loans made from Current Funds will be made in accordance with the following guidelines and restrictions.

• All loans are subject to the approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

• The total principal amount of internal loans outstanding shall not exceed $10 million.

• No loan shall be made for a period to exceed four years. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide a report to the Board of Visitors at each Board meeting to include the following information:

• Identification of all departmental loans outstanding;

• The original and current loan amounts outstanding;

• The due date of each loan; and

• Current interest rate.

The interest rate applicable to internal loans shall be a floating rate adjusted quarterly based on the average Federal Funds rate for the month plus 60 basis points. Accrued interest will be payable monthly. Interest will accrue daily on the basis of a 360-day year.

Any note may be prepaid by the maker at any time without penalty.

Department heads should contact the Director of the Budget, University Budget Office. to apply for such a loan or to obtain further information in this matter.

ASSET CLASS FUNDSCore Equity FundSatellite Equity FundReturn ObjectiveTo provide long-term capital appreciation. Specifically, to outperform the S&P 500 Index and the Wilshire 5000, net of all fees and expenses, over rolling 5 year periods.To provide long-term capital appreciation and added diversification when combined with the Core Equity Fund. The Specific objective is to outperform the S&P 500 and the Wilshire 5000 by 200 basis points, net of all fees and expenses, over rolling 5-year periodsBenchmarkS&P 500, Wilshire 5000S&P 500, Wilshire 5000 +200 Basis PointsDistributionsMonthlyMonthlyInvestment VehiclesThe managers within the fund will normally invest in domestic and/or foreign common stocks. Such managers may, at their discretion, hold investment reserves of either money market instruments or bonds without limitation in terms of asset size or period of time. Use of derivative and short positions require prior approval by the Investment Subcommittee. The use of derivative instruments is governed by the "Investment Guidelines for the USe of Derivatives." Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo has been granted approval to hold up to 25% of its portfolio in index futures and short stocks.The fund will make strategic investments with managers of alternative asset classes such as venture capital and distressed securities and with alternative investment styles, such as risk arbitrage and hedge funds.RiskThe risk of the fund will be highly correlated with general stock market riskIt is expected that the returns ob the fund will be more volatile than the returns in the domestic stock market but will be less highly correlated with the returns of that market as compared with the Core Equity Fund.

Minimum\\Target\\MaximumMinimum\\Target\\MaximumRanges for Asset Classes and Subclasses50%\\65%\\100%Domestic Equity0%\\35%\\50%\\International equity0%\\None\\20%Reserves (Bonds/Cash)0%\\17%\\NAVenture Capital0%\\40%\\NAHedge Funds0%\\13%\\NARisk Arbitrage0%\\30%\\NADistressed Securities0%\\None\\NALeveraged Buyouts0%\\None\\NAOther

Asset Class FundsBond FundCash FundReturn ObjectiveTo provide a hihg level of current income and to act as a hedge against deflation. Specifically, to outperform the Lehman Borthers Government/ Corporate Bond Index, net of fees, over rollings 5-year periodsTo provide the highest level of current income consistent with preservation of principal. Specifically, to outperform the benchmark, net of fees, over rolling one-year periodsBenchmarkLehman Brothers Gov't/Corp (Lehman Brothers AggregateSix-Month U.S. Treasury Bill IndexDistributionsMonthlyMonthly (on the last business day of the month)Investment VehiclesThe managers within the fund will invest in domestic and foreign government and corporate bonds and faculty mortgages. aN emphasis will be placed on investments in high-quality, non-callable, relatively longer term securities to ensure the deflation hedging characteristics of the fund. Up to twenty percent of the fund may be invested in alternative strategies that produce bond-like returns at similar levels of risk. The use of derivative instruments is governed by the "Investment Guidelines for the Use of Derivatives."Same as Current Funds

Minimum\\Target\\MaximumMinimum\\Target\\MaximumPortfolio CharacteristicsAverage Duration60%\\100%\\150%50%/100%/500%

Real estate FundReturn ObjectivesTo provide a high level of current income in addition to equity appreciation. Specifically, to outperform the Russell Necreif Property Index over rolling 5 year periodsBenchmark10% return; 50% S&P 500/50% Lehman Brothers Government/Corp; Russell-NCREIF Property IndexInvestment PhilosophyAttempt to find distressed areas in the real estate market. Consideration will be given to overall diversification, but there are no targets.DistributionsMonthlyInvestment VehiclesThe fund may invest in private REITS, real estate limited partnerships, and other types of pooled real estate vehicles.

Growth & Income Pooled Endowment FundReturn ObjectivesTo provide current income and capital appreciation consistent with the preservation of the purchasing power of the underlying assets. Specifically, to meet or exceed the average annual rate of inflation plus spending over rolling five-year periods and to outperform the benchmark composed of 75% S&P 500 and 25% Lehman Brothers Government Corporate.Benchmark75% S&P 500/25% LBGC (Lehman Brothers Aggregate) (Wilshire 5000)DistributionsClass A Shares: (For general endowment assets) Distributions should average between 4% and 4.5% 44% of the previous June 30 market value, a percentage which both capital market history and theory suggest would be sustainable over the long-term. To provide a predictable stream of income, the dollar .distribution is targeted to grow at\_an average annual rate of 4%. However, if in October of any given year, the projected distribution is greater than 5 1/2% or less than 3 1/2% of the previous June 30 market value of the 6fewt Ineeme-F-Rd Pooled Endowment Fund, the Finance Commjttee will review the situation and consider reducing or increasing the per share spending rate. Class B Shares: (For endowment assets which are eligible for supplements by the Commonwealth, as well as those assets which qualify for inclusion under the Faculty. Salary Initiative:) Distributions are targeted to be 6% of the previous June 30 market value and shall grow at an average annual growth rate of 4% per year. If in October of any given year projected distributable income is greater than 6 1/2% or less than 5 1/2% of the previous June 30 market value of the Balanced Asset Fund Pooled Endowment Fund, the Finance Committee will review the situation and consider reducing or increasing the per share spending rate. The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors may, from time to time, impose fees associated with securing and administrating endowment funds. Note: The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer has the authority to approve exceptions to the general spending rules within a range of 4% to 6% for endowment assets up to $2,000,000 $500,099. The Investment Subcommittee must approve exceptions to the general spending rules for endowments greater than $2,000,000 $500,000 or for rates outside the 4% to 6% range.Investment VehiclesThe Fund will achieve its asset allocation objectives by investing in the unitized Core Equity, Satellite Equity, Real Estate, Bond, and Cash Funds.

Target Asset AllocationMinimum\\Target\\MaximumCore Equity Fund40%\\45%\\85%Satellite Equity Fund0%\\25%\\30%Real Estate Fund0%\\10%\\20%Bond Fund15%\\20%\\60%Cash Fund0%\\0%\\ 10%Venture Capital0%\\N/A3%\\ 5%Hedge Funds0%\\N/A 10% \\ 15%Distressed Securities0%\\N/A 4%\\10%Risk Arbitrage0%\\N/A8%\\10%

INTERNALLY-MANAGED FUNDS

FUND OUTLINE

CURRENT FUNDSReturn ObjectiveTo provide the maximum current income consistent with the need for safety and liquidity. Specifically, to outperform a composite index consisting of 60% 91-Day T-Bills and 40% Merrill Lynch Governments, U.S. Treasury Short-term Index (1.2.99 years).Benchmark 60% 91-Day T-Bills/40% Merrill Lynch Governments, U.S. Treasury Short-Term Index (1-2.99 years).Investment Philosophy Active portfolio management and trading will be employed to acheive the return objectives. Strict quality standards havebeen established to minimize credit risk. In order to protect against or capitalize on sharp fluctuations in interest rates, trading may be substantial at times. Emphasis will be placed on short-term, highly marketable securities to insure adequate liquidity.Investment VehiclesThe fund may invest in the following instruments, in compliance with Code of Virginia Investment Guidelines • Savings accounts approved for Commonwealth of Virginia deposits. • Repurchase agreements, collateralized by U.S. Treasury or Agency securities • Certificates of Deposit and Bank Deposit Notes issued by any Virginia Bank rated A,A/B, or B by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank and Watch Bank/Thrift Ratings. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in CD's issued by any single bank. • Commercial paper issued by domestic corporations having a credit rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. Dollar denominated commercial paper issued by foreign issuers with a rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in the commerical paper of any single issur. • Treasury Notes and Bonds. • Obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States. • Corporate notes and bonds rated A or better by S&P and Moody's and having a duration of no more than five years. • Asset-backed securities with a duration of no more than five years and a rating of no less than AAA by two rating agencies, one of which must be either Moody's or S&P. • Bankers' Acceptances issued by any domestic bank rated B/C or better by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. Bankers' Acceptance issued by international banks with a bank rating of B/C or better and a country rating of I. Fully hedged obligations of sovereign governments with an Aaa rating by Moddy's and AAA by S&P. • Short-term money market funds which invest exclusively in securities approved for current fund investments. • Common Fund Bond Fund • Common Fund Intermediate Cash Fund • Municipal bonds, either general obligation or revenue, rated AA or better • Subject to the approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer internal loans to University Departments and Activities to be repaid from operating and capital funds budgeted for this purpose. No more than a total of 10 million shall be invested in internalloans at any time

Internally Managed Bond Fund

Return ObjectivesTo provide a high level of current income, relative to equities. Specifically, to outperform the Lehman Borthers Government Bond Index over rolling five-year periodsBenchmarkLehman Brothers GovernmentInvestment PhilosophyFunds will be managed within duration units with little turnover expected. Current coupon and call protection will be emphasized to assure a high and stable level of income.Minimum\\Target\\MaximumInvestment Vehicles U.S. Treasury & Agencies100%\\None\\100%Portfolio Characteristics (Relative to Benchmark) Duration60%\\100%\\150%

TRUST FUNDS

TRUST FUNDS

investment ObjectiveThe primary objective is to comply with the terns of the Trust Agreement in regard to specific income requirements. The secondary objective is to preserve and enhance the real (inflationadjusted) purchasing power of the principal and to provide for growth in income. Investment PhilosophyInvestments will be made from a stable long-term perspective with moderate turnover. Although investments for individual Trusts need not be fully diversified by asset class, diversification should be sufficient to meet fiduciary standards. Extreme positions or very opportunistic styles should be avoided. Where the trust document allows, charitable remainder unitrust and annuity trust assets will be invested according to the long-term endowment asset allocation target of 75 percent stocks and 25 percent bonds. Net income trust assets will be allocated between equities and bonds according to trust income requirements.Investment VehiclesThe following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Powe-Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds. Portfolios of individual common stocks may be created on rare occasions to meet specific requirements of the Agreement with the approval of the Executive Vice President and, at his discretion, the Investment SubCommittee of the Board of Visitors.

POOLED INCOME FUND

POOLED INCOME FUND

Investment ObjectiveThe primary objective of the Fund is to provide a stable stream of income (interest and dividends). A secondary objective is to provide for growth in income and principal. The income target (in a percentage form) for the Fund will be set on an annual basis based on market conditions.Investment Philosophy Investments will be made from a stable long- term perspective with moderate turnover. Extreme position and very opportunistic styles should be avoided. The Pooled Income Fund will be divided into the -"equity portion" and the "fixed income portion". The "equity portion" is designed to provide long-term capital appreciation. It will normally represent 15-20% of total assets at market value. The "equity portion" should outperform the S&P 500 stock average net of fees as measured over running five-year periods. The purpose of the "fixed income portion" is to provide a high and stable level of current income and hedge against deflation. The "fixed income portion" will normally represent 80-85% of total assets. The investment objective of the "fixed income fund" is to outperform the Lehman Brothers Government/Corporate Index net of fees over running five-periods. Asset allocation of the Fund will be adjusted as necessary in order to achieve the yearly income targets. The "fixed income portion" should be invested in intermediate bonds with money market instruments being used rarely, if at all. The following pooled funds may be used: Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price, Fiduciary Trust Company International, and University of Virginia Pooled Funds. Investment VehiclesPrivate placements, equity real estate, direct mortgages and venture capital are not to be purchased or sold by the Fund.

INVESTMENT OF SECURITY LENDING COLLATERAL

INVESTMENT OF SECURITY LENDING COLLATERAL

Investment ObjectiveThe primary objective shall be to provide a reasonable levelof investment income consistent with the need for liquidity and safety of the principalInvestment PhilosophyInvestments will be made to provide incremental income over the broker rebate rate, which is typically the Federal Funds rate. Maintaining liquidity and saety of principal will be emphasizedInvestment VehiclesThe Fund may invest in following authorized investments: • Repurchase agreements with those institutions listed as approved borrowers provided such agreemnts are memorialized in writing. All repurchase agreement transactions will be collateralized, either by delivery versus payment or tri-party arrangement. All repurchase agreement transactions will be collaterilized, either by delivery versus payment or tri-party arrangement. All repurchase agreement collateral must be consistent with securities approved for direct investment with the exception of any maturity restrictions • U.S. Treasury obligations or obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States. No final maturity may exceed one year expect floating rates notes which may not exceed three years. • Commercial paper issued by domestic corporations having a credit rating of A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody's. No more than 10% of the portfolio shall be invested in the commercial paper of any single issuer • Corporate notes and bonds rated A or better by S&P and Moody's and having a final maturity not exceeding one year except floatingrate notes which may not exceed three • Banker's Acceptances issued by any domestic bank rated B/C or better by Thompson BankWatch, Inc. Banker's Acceptances issued by international banks with a bank rating of B/C or better and a country rating of I. • Municipal bonds, rated AA or better by S&P and Moody's, either general obligation or revenue. No final maturity can exceed one year except floating rate notes which may not exceed three years. • Short-term money market funds which invest exclusively in securities approved for the investment of security lending collateral • Any securities consistent in character to range floaters or dual index notes are not considered acceptable investments for cash collateral regardless of maturity, issuer, or government guarantee, real or implied.

INVESTMENT GUIDELINES FOR UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENT LOANS TO UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION

Background

The University of Virginia has advanced funds (Endowment Loans) to the University of Virginia Foundation (currently totalling $32.1 million) to acquire strategic real estate assets that have served the financial and programmatic needs of the University of Virginia. In June 1992, the University Real Estate Foundation adopted a policy regarding repayment to the University Endowment which stated that the Endowment Loans would be non-interest bearing. Repayment would be based on the activities of specific assets (in essence, without recourse to the Foundation's other assets or activities), and, after the principal on the loans was repaid, gifts would be made to the endowment.

To achieve a level of independent financial strength for the Foundation to pursue its objectives in serving the University of Virginia, we have adopted the following principles that will serve as guidelines.

Acquisition of Properties for the University:

1\. Purchase must be approved by the Foundation's Board and the University of Virginia's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

2\. Department must provide comfort to the Chief Financial Officer that it has the funds to purchase the property.

3\. The Foundation will assess a 1 % acquisition fee, 1% disposition fee, direct expenses associated with acquisition and sale, plus management fees, if necessary.

4\. An interest rate similar to that which the Foundation receives from outside creditors will be assessed. Rental income, if any, will be credited against this expense.

Gifts of Real Estate:

1\. The Foundation will charge a 1 % acquisition fee, a 1% disposition fee (capped at $25,000 for both), direct expenses associated with acquisition and sale, plus management fees, if necessary, against the proceeds of the gift.

2\. The University will provide a $50,000 imprest fund to cover expenses incurred prior to the sale of property.

Ongoing Operations:

1\. Income will be used first to amortize indebtedness, with parties other than the University, related to improvements and carrying costs for the project.

2\. When feasible, excess income will be used to secure third-party debt to repay the principal on the Endowment Loans. The balance, if any, shall remain with the Foundation.'

Sale of Properties:

1\. Other than properties purchase for a specific department, which will be sold on a fully-cost basis, all properties will be sold at market value based on an MAI appraisal secured by the Foundation. The proceeds will be used as follows:

a. First to repay indebtedness with third parties. b. Additional proceeds will be used to repay Endowment Loans.

c. Any excess proceeds after "a" and "b" are met, will be allocated 50% to the University of Virginia as a gift and 50% to the Foundation to establish its own capital base.

d. If proceeds are insufficient to accomplish "a" and "b", the unpaid Endowment Loan will be written off on the University's books.

Other:

The University recognized that the Foundation does not yet have sufficient income to cover its operating costs. As such, the University understands that the Foundation will not begin repaying the Endowment Loans on the Colonnades and Booker House. This exception to the policy will be reviewed in five years.

ATTACHMENT CTHE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA July 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MEMORANDUM

TO:    The Special Committee to Revise the Manual: Champ Clark, Chair Franklin R. Birckhead Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Hooey S. Dabney, Ex Officio

FROM:    Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:    Minutes of the Meeting of the Special Committee to Revise the Manual

The Special Committee to Revise the Manual of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 1:20 p.m., Thursday, July 17, 1997, in the North Oval Room of the Rotunda; Champ Clark, Chair, presided. Franklin R. Birckhead and Charles M. Caravati, Jr. were present. Also present were Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., and Ms. Jeanne F. Baffles.

Referring to material distributed earlier to the Committee, the Chair reviewed the proposed changes, item by item:

1\. Page vi of The Manual: the list of Rectors should be brought up to date to include the inclusive years of Mr. Elson's Rectorship and the year Mr. Dabney took office.

Edward Elliott Elson 1990-1992

Hooey S. Dabney 1992

2\. Page vii, paragraph 2: a line should be added to bring the history of Manual revisions up to date. Rather than disturb the chronology of the text, which reflects the revisions of 1966 and 1975, the Secretary proposed that this explanatory line, which would reflect the 1991 revisions as well as the proposed 1997 revisions, be added as a separate paragraph following the listing of names on page viii, (see #3 below).

3\. Page viii: Rather than list the current Committee members - since the 1991 Committee members were not listed - the Secretary proposed trying his hand at a compromise wording.

"Revisions to The Manual were undertaken in 1991, during the rectorship of Edward Elliott Elson, and in 1997, during the rectorship of Hovey S. Dabney. John T. Casteen, III, was President of the University in both instances. The 1991 Revisions were directed by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors under the chairmanship of Mr. Elson. The 1997 revisions were done by a special committee of the Board appointed by the Rector and under the chairmanship of Mr. Champ Clark."

4\. SECTION 2.2 COMPOSITION: The Committee approved the following changes which were proposed by the General Counsel in order to bring this Section into accordance with current law:

"The Board of Visitors is composed of sixteen members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the Senate and House of Delegates of Virginia, for terms of four years. Members may be reappointed for one additional four-year term. At least thirteen of the sixteen members must be from the State at large, and not more than three may be appointed from alumni or alumnae living outside the State. At least eleven of the sixteen members must be alumni or alumnae of the University.

"The statute provides that for each vacancy on the Board of Visitors, the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia shall propose three names to the Governor for possible appointment. Such proposals, however, are advisory only, and the Governor may appoint persons other than those recommended by the Alumni Association. A vacancy on the Board is filled by appointment by the Governor for the unexpired term. A person filling an unexpired term may be reappointed by the Governor for two additional four-year terms."

5\. SECTION 2.21 STUDENT NON-VOTING MEMBER: The Chair proposed this Section to be changed to reflect the amendment made to it by the Board on June 11, 1994, as well as current practice.

"At the first regular meeting of the second semester of the academic session each year, on recommendation of the Executive Committee, the Board of Visitors may appoint for a term of one year, a fulltime student at the University of Virginia as a nonvoting member of the Board of Visitors, in addition to those members referred to in Section 2.2 above. Such student may attend and participate in a non-voting capacity in the deliberations and meetings of the Standing and Special Committees of the Board as well as meetings of the Board of Visitors itself."

6\. SECTION 2.31 THE ANNUAL MEETING: There was discussion about changing the date of the Annual Meeting from late May early June to late March-early April. The reason for this proposal is that the early spring meeting-is customarily the first meeting new appointees to the Board attend, thus necessitating a change in the composition of Board committees. Because of the current designated date of the Annual Meeting, the Rector must make these changes at two successive meetings. The Committee decided to ask the General Counsel if there is any statutory provision for holding the Annual Meeting on the presently designated date.

The General Counsel has ruled that there is no statutory provision for holding the Annual Meeting at a prescribed time. The Committee, therefore, recommends that Section 2.31 be changed to read as follows:

"The one meeting each year required by statute is known as the Annual Meeting and is required to be held at the University at Charlottesville \[delete: , and customarily is held about the time of Finals at the conclusion of the Spring Semester.\]. At this meeting the Board elects an Executive Committee, receives a report from the President on the state of the University, considers and approves the annual budget, and reviews and decides on such other matters as may come before it. The date for the Annual Meeting is prescribed by the Board at the last regular meeting in the preceding calendar year. On the recommendation of the Rector and the President, the date and time of the Annual Meeting may be changed by the Executive Committee."

7\. SECTION 2.32 REGULAR MEETINGS: The Chair proposed that this Section be changed as follows, noting that Mr. Ackerly had pointed out that the current wording would seem to preclude the Board from changing the time, date or place of its own meetings. "There shall be such other regular meetings of the Board of Visitors each year as the Board may determine. These meetings shall be held on such dates and at such places for the succeeding calendar year as the Board shall determine at the last regular meeting of a calendar year. The time, date, and place of a regular meeting may be changed by a quorum of the Board of Visitors or by the Executive Committee."

8\. SECTION 2.34 NOTICE OF MEETINGS: The Chair suggested changes to this Section to reflect the changes of methods of communication - telegrams are no longer used but fax machines and e-mail are now in common usage.

"Due notice in writing of the Annual Meeting and all regular meetings and of any changes in the dates, times, or places of a regular meeting shall be given by the Secretary of the Board of Visitors. Such written notice shall be sent \[delete: by mail, telegram, or other means\] at least ten days prior to the meeting. Written notice of all special meetings shall be sent by the Secretary \[delete: by letter, telegram, or other means\] at least five days in advance of the meeting. All notices of a special meeting shall indicate the item or items of business to be considered."

9\. SECTION 2.35 QUORUM: These changes were suggested by Mr. Ross and the General Counsel; the Committee adopted them pending approval of its definition of "quorum" by the General Counsel.

"A quorum for the conduct of business by the full Board of Visitors shall consist of five members of the Board (as required by statute) except in those instances where other statutory provisions, as, for example, in the consideration of revenue bond issues, may require a larger number for the transaction of particular items of business. A quorum for the Executive Committee and all Standing and Special Committees of the Board of Visitors shall consist of one-third of the appointed members of the committee, except that in no case shall the number be fewer than two. "

10\. SECTION 2.36 TELEPHONIC PARTICIPATION: The Committee voted to insert this as a new section. On subsequent reflection, however, and on further advice of the General Counsel, the Chair decided to table it pending the outcome of efforts by the University to change the relevant portions of the Code of Virginia in the forthcoming session of the General Assembly.

The proposed new section of The Manual would read as follows (the language was suggested by the General Counsel):

"Participation and/or voting by telephone at meetings of the Board of Visitors or its committees is prohibited unless proper public notice is provided as required by law, and arrangements are timely coordinated with the Secretary. Executive or closed meeting discussions may not, however, be conducted by telephone."

11\. SECTION 2.36 DOCKETS: (the current numbering system of this Chapter is continued for the time being) The Chair proposed these changes which reflect concerns expressed by several members of the Board.

"For the Annual Meeting and each regular meeting, the Secretary shall prepare, under the supervision of the Rector and the President, a docket comprising such matters as the Board, the Rector, the President, and the chairman of each Standing Committee shall refer for consideration. This docket shall include all the agenda items to be considered by the Board and its committees at such meetings that are known by the Rector, the President and the Secretary at the time the docket is prepared. After receiving the Rector's approval, a copy of this docket, to be called the Regular Docket, shall be \[delete: presented for the Rector's review and approval and thereafter shall be\] mailed to each member of the Board of Visitors at least ten days prior to the meeting of the Board. Consideration of matters \[delete: which arise between the mailing of the Regular Docket and the convening of the Board of Visitors shall be presented to the Board in the Supplementary Docket, which is to be prepared by the Secretary under the supervision of the President\] not appearing on the Regular Docket shall require the consent of two-thirds of the Visitors present. The notice of a special meeting containing a list of the items to be considered shall take the place of the Regular Docket at a special meeting.

12\. SECTION 2.4 POWERS AND DUTIES (5): These changes, suggested by the Chair, reflect that fact that the person designated as Comptroller is no longer the University's Chief Financial Officer and not a vice-president; also, as Mr. Ackerly and Mr. Ross have pointed out, the General Counsel, by statute, is appointed by the Attorney General of the Commonwealth.

"5 the election of a Rector, President \[delete: Comptroller, General Counsel\], Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary, and the election of salaried members of the faculty, except for those faculty members \[delete: whose appointments are vested in the President (see Sec, 4.22\[6\]) and except for those faculty members\] designated by the President during the period between \[delete: the Annual Meeting in May or June and the next regular meeting\] meetings of the Board of Visitors at which time the President's actions \[delete: shall\] may be formally ratified by the Board \[delete: ;\] at its next regular meeting. The foregoing is however, subject to the provisions of Section 4.22 (5)

13\. New Subsection to be inserted after Section 2.4 (24); Messrs. Ackerly and Ross and the General Counsel have pointed out that this will bring The Manual into conformity with the Code:

"25 the exercise of other powers conferred on corporations by the provisions of Title 13.1 of the Code of Virginia."

14\. SECTION 3.2 STANDING COMMITTEES: The Committee wished to designate the Clinch Valley College Committee a standing committee of the Board, to be called the "Clinch Valley College Committee." The other change proposed in this Section, "External Affairs" rather than "External Relations," reflects an error in the designation of this committee.

"The standing committees of the Board of Visitors shall consist of the Finance Committee, Buildings and Grounds Committee, Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, Educational Policy Committee, Health Affairs Committee, External \[delete: Relations\] Affairs Committee, \[delete: and\] the Audit Committee and the Clinch Valley College Committee. The number to be appointed to each standing committee shall be determined by the Rector at the time of the appointment. However, no committee shall consist of fewer than three members."

15\. SECTION 3.27 EXTERNAL \[delete: RELATIONS\] AFFAIRS COMMITTEE: This change simply reflects the change in nomenclature.

"The External \[delete: Relations\] Affairs Committee shall have responsibility in all matters pertaining to University development, alumni affairs, and public communications. It shall exercise oversight over programs that promote private donations to, and alumni support of the University, including related activities undertaken directly by University offices and by affiliated foundations on the University's behalf."

16\. SECTION 3.28 CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE COMMITTEE (new insertion): The Secretary was asked to locate the original charge to this committee with an eye toward using it as the descriptive language for this Section of The Manual.

"The Clinch Valley College Committee is charged with maintaining liaison between the Board of Visitors and the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College. The Committee will work to assist the Chancellor in carrying out his duties and to further the advancement of Clinch Valley College."

17\. Page 15, first paragraph: The language change here reflects the present role of the Comptroller and the newer designation, "Chief Financial Officer."

"The Officers of the Board of Visitors shall consist of the Rector of the University of Virginia, the President of the University, \[delete: the Comptroller\] the Chief Financial Officer of the University, the General Counsel of the University, and the Secretary to the Board of Visitors."

18\. SECTION 4.12 POWERS AND DUTIES: The Chair explained that his proposed changes in this Section reflect concerns expressed by a number of Board members.

"The Rector shall be the presiding officer of the Board of Visitors at all of its meetings and as such shall have the power, unless otherwise directed by the Board, to fix the order of business, appoint all standing and special committees (except the Executive Committee), and require the proper preservation of a record of the Board's proceedings by the Secretary. \[delete: Upon the request of the Board, he shall act as its spokesman or representative.\] Without diminishing the right of individual Visitors to publicly express their personal views, the Rector, unless otherwise dete=ined by the Board or the Rector, shall act as spokesman for the Board of Visitors. He shall perform such additional duties as may be imposed on his office by statute or by the direction of the Board.

19\. SECTION 4.21 ELECTION: The Chair explained that the proposed language will echo the language of the relevant statute.

"The President shall be elected by the Board of Visitors and \[delete: shall serve at its pleasure\] may be removed only by assent of two-thirds of the whole number of Visitors. He shall attend all meetings of the Board and shall have notice of and the privilege of attending all meetings of its committees."

20\. SECTION 4.22(5): The proposed language is inserted at the suggestion of the General Counsel, who has pointed out that the existing language is "silent with respect to appointments of faculty to established chairs."

"5 he shall recommend to the Board of Visitors the election, and initial compensation, of salaried members of the faculty holding professorial rank or named chairs, promotions of faculty members to the ranks of associate professor, full professor, and professor emeritus, and the removal of faculty members for cause

21\. SECTION 4.3 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE UNIVERSITY: This Section is superfluous if "Chief Financial Officer" is substituted for "Comptroller" throughout The Manual.

\[delete: SECTION 4.3 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE UNIVERSITY. The Comptroller of the University shall be the Chief Financial Officer of the University.\]

22\. SECTION 4.31 ELECTION: For the same reasons stated for the deletion of the previous Section, this Section should be taken out.

\[delete: SECTION 4.3 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE UNIVERSITY. On the nomination of the President, the Board shall elect a Comptroller of the University to serve at its pleasure.\]

23\. SECTION 4.32 POWERS AND DUTIES: This Section describes the powers and duties of the Comptroller; the wording would be changed only to reflect the election and role of the Chief Financial Officer.

"The Chief Financial Officer, who is elected by the Board of Visitors on the nomination of the President of the University, is an Officer of the Board. The Chief Financial Officer \[delete: As the chief financial officer of the University, the Comptroller\] shall have supervision of the financial affairs of all colleges, schools, and divisions of the University and shall advise the Board of Visitors and the President, under whose immediate direction he shall be, on all financial matters affecting the University. Subject to the direction of the Board and the President, he shall prescribe accounting procedures and practices for the disbursement of all funds, promulgate management policies and procedures for auxiliary services and operations, and institute budgetary policies and controls which will assure the faithful execution of the budgets. He shall see that no expenditures are made without proper authorization. In addition, he shall advise the Board of Visitors and its committees on all matters relating to the duties of his office. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or the President."

24\. SECTION 4.4 SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS: The proposed change in the wording of this Section would give the Board, as represented by the Rector, equal footing in the nomination of its Secretary.

"At the first regular meeting after February 28, 1986, and every fourth year thereafter, upon nomination of the President and the Rector in concurrence, the Board of Visitors shall elect a Secretary to serve until February 28 of the fourth year thereafter and until his successor is elected.

"Any vacancy in the office shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as election for the full term."

25\. SECTION 4.42 POWERS AND DUTIES: The addition to this Section reflects the work done recently by the Chair and the Board in collecting and inventorying Board and Administration policies.

"The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Visitors and its committees and shall record the minutes of all proceedings. He shall prepare minutes of such meetings which, after approval by the Board, shall be recorded in the permanent records of the Board of Visitors. He shall maintain an up-to-date inventory of Board policies. He shall give proper notice of all meetings of the Board of Visitors, shall preserve as directed all documents or papers pertaining to the actions of the Board, and shall keep in safe custody the seal of the University, which he shall affix to any instrument when authorized by the Board of Visitors or persons designated by it, including the Rector, the President, or the \[delete: Comptroller\] Chief Financial Officer. In addition to the foregoing, he shall perform those functions and have those duties or responsibilities which are usual to the duties of a secretary and shall assist the Board of Visitors in the discharge of its official duties. He shall, under the immediate direction of the President, perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board, the Rector, or the President."

26\. SECTION 4.6 GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE UNIVERSITY. SECTION 4.61 ELECTION: This proposed change simply brings The Manual into conformity with the statute.

"\[delete: On nomination of the President, the Board shall elect) By statute, a General Counsel of the University shall be appointed by the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Thereafter, on Special Committee to - July 17, 1997 - 12. Revise the Manual nomination of the President, the Board of Visitors shall elect the General Counsel to serve at its pleasure.

27\. SECTION 5.2 RETIREMENT: This change is proposed for consistency's sake.

"The President \[delete: Comptroller\], Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary shall relinquish their positions as Officers of the Board of Visitors upon retirement or resignation from their administrative duties."

28\. SECTION 5.3 COMMUNICATIONS TO THE BOARD: The concept embodied in these changes was discussed at the Board's Retreat in July.

"All communications of an official nature directed to the Board of Visitors shall be channeled through the office of the President. All communications of an official nature from the Board of Visitors shall be similarly channeled or copies thereof shall be furnished to the President."

29\. SECTION 5.5 EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS: The changes in wording are in the interest of consistency.

"The Rector, the President, the \[delete Comptroller\] Chief Financial Officer and other persons designated by the Board of Visitors shall be authorized to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, any instrument which may require the name of the corporation to be signed thereto, and the Secretary shall have authority to affix the seal of the corporation to any such instrument and to deliver it to the party entitled to receive it."

30\. SECTION 5.6 ASSIGNMENT OF SECURITIES: As in the previous Section, the changes in wording are in the interest of consistency.

"The Rector, the President, the \[delete: Comptroller\]Chief Financial Officer and other persons designated by the Board of Visitors shall have authority to sell, assign, and transfer any and all stocks, bonds, evidences of indebtedness or interest thereon, rights and options to acquire or sell the same, and all other securities, corporate or otherwise, standing in the name or belonging to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any capacity. The same persons have authority to give the assent of the corporation to mergers, consolidations, agreements for a deposit of stock, or for reorganization of any corporation or corporations in which The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as a corporation may have an interest."

31\. SECTION 5.10 EFFECTIVE DATE: The current wording will have to be revised when the changes to The Manual have been approved.

"The provisions of this Manual shall go into effect on October 4, 1991. As of their effective date, these provisions shall supersede all prior actions of the Board which are inconsistent with them."

32\. Miscellaneous: The list of Members in Appendix B must be brought up to date. Appendix C (Pertinent Legal Provisions Excerpted from the Code of Virginia) should be updated to incorporate changes since 1984-85 and to include the powers granted to corporations.

Mr. Birckhead suggested that wherever possible, "Board of Visitors" should be substituted for "Board."

Before adjourning at 3:20 p.m., the Committee approved the following Resolution:

"RESOLVED that the proposed changes to The Manual, subject to review by the General Counsel, be forwarded to the Executive Committee for review and subsequently to the full Board for approval."

The Committee also made a change to Section 2.1 CORPORATE NAME AND GOVERNING BODY: "The University is a public corporation which by statute bears the name of \`The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.' By statute also the governing body of the corporation, which exercises all the powers vested in The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is styled the "Board of Visitors," and shall hereafter be referred to as such or as "Board" in this Manual."
