---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1998'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
March 27-28, 1998 The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:30 a.m., on Friday, March 27, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: William H. Goodwin, Jr., Rector Pro-tempore, John P. Ackerly, III, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, and Joseph E. Wolfe. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:50 p.m., on Saturday, March 28, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Miss Kristine L. LaLonde, Timothy B. Robertson, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, and Joseph E. Wolfe. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

Mr. William H. Goodwin, Jr., Rector Pro-tempore, introduced the three new Board Members: Mr. Timothy B. Robertson, Virginia Beach, Mr. Benjamin P.A. Warthen, Richmond, Mr. Joseph E. Wolfe, Wise, and Mr. James Michael Allen, Student Member-Elect, Dallas, Texas.

ELECTION OF MR. JOHN P. ACKERLY, III, AS RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1998, and in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. John P. Ackerly, III, was elected as the Rector of the University of Virginia for a four-year term. The vote was unanimous.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, JANUARY 24, 1998
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the meeting of January 24, 1998, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

1998 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the May, 1998 meeting of the Board of Visitors be designated the Annual Meeting for the Year 1998.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.That the Educational Policy Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of the condition, disposition and use of real property bequeathed to the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(3) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.That the Health Affairs Committee of The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing proprietary, business related information of the Medical Center in connection with its proposed and existing joint ventures, and the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, when if made public initially the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President reported on a miscellany of items:

Commenting on the current discussion in the University community about fraternity rush, the President noted recent statements made by the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth about alcohol abuse and fraternities, as well as police raids on fraternity houses at Virginia Commonwealth University for violations of the laws on underage drinking. There is great national concern about binge drinking and other forms of alcohol abuse and rightly or not, fraternities are blamed as accessories to these problems.The resolution passed by the Faculty Senate last fall which asks that rush be postponed until the second year is an expression of the faculty's general concern about students' welfare; the Senate and others worry that the orientation of newly arrived first year students is flawed by early rush and the temptations of alcohol abuse. The faculty's concerns, the President emphasized, are not anti-fraternity, but an expression of genuine interest in student welfare. The Dean of Students will decide on rush soon. The President noted that the Dean has a great deal of experience and is very effective; he assured the Board that the Dean has had extensive discussions with all parties involved in this matter.The President also reported on the support of organizations which provide services for Latino and Asian American students. Rather than combine these with support services for African-American students as had been proposed at one point, it seems more sensible to preserve the indivisuality of these organizations. All students, however will bave access on demand to the very successful peer advising program which is run by Dean Turner and Assistant Dean Terry.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated February 5, 1998, and prepared by Heery International of Atlanta, Georgia, for the Scott Stadium Expansion project is approved; RESOLVED FURTHER that the question of the location ofthe President's Box be brought to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for approval, and that the architects present to the Committee design and cost options for the Pergola and suggestions for alternative materials for the Plaza; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the project be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development. (Resolution approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on February 5, 1998)

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION — PARKING PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines,dated February 5, 1998, and prepared by Heery Internationalof Atlanta, Georgia, for the parking component of the Scott Stadium Expansion project are approved; RESOLVED FURTHER that the architects seek ways to reduce costs of the parking project; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development. (Resolution approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on February 5, 1998)

APPROVAL TO HIRE CONSULTANTS TO STUDY THE GROUNDSWALK PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the University hire a landscape architecture firm, or any related consultants, to study the Groundswalk Project. (Resolution approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on February 5, 1998)

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated March 26, 1998, and prepared by Heery International of Atlanta, Georgia, for the Scott Stadium Expansion project is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION - PARKING
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated March 26, 1998, and prepared by Heery International of Atlanta, Georgia, for the construction of the Scott Stadium Expansion project is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF THE CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE PH.D. DEGREE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY AND MOLECULAR GENETICS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the degree title Ph.D. in Biochemistry be changed to Ph.D. in Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics to correspond with the department name change reported at the November 1997 Board of Visitors' meeting.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1998-99 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1998-99 session:

ACADEMIC DIVISIONActualAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98IncreaseIncrease1998-99 Dining Service Contract (1,2)Unlimited Entry w/ $150 + Dollars $2,350 $80 3.4% $2,43010 Meals per week w/ $350 + Dollars $1,920 $70 3.6% $1,99010 Meals per week w/ $780 + Dollars $2,350 $80 3.4% $2,43013 Meals per week w/ $500 + Dollars $2,350 $80 3.4% $2,43015 Meals per week w/ $400 + Dollars $2,350 $80 3.4% $2,43050 Meals per semester w/ $350 + Dollars $ 900 $30 3.3% $93080 Meals per semester w/ $350 + Dollars $1,200 $30 2.5% $1,230100 Meals per semester w/ $350 + Dollars $1,380 $40 2.9% $1,420Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)Unlimited Entry w/ $150 + Dollars $2,460 $80 3.3% $2,54010 Meals per week w/ $350 + Dollars $2,030 $70 3.4% $2,10010 Meals per week w/ $780 + Dollars $2,460 $80 3.3% $2,54013 Meals per week w/ $500 + Dollars $2,460 $80 3.3% $2,54015 Meals per week w/ $400 + Dollars $2,460 $80 3.3% $2,54080 Meals per semester w/ $350 + Dollars $1,310 $30 2.3% $1,340100 Meals per semester w/ $350 +Dollars $1,490 $40 2.7% $1,5306 Meals per year (Lawn Residents) n/a n/a n/a $120 Athletics Unlimited Entry w/ $150 + Dollars $2,500 $40 1.6% $2,54010 Meals per week w/ $350 + Dollars $2,070 $30 1.5% $2,10010 Meals per week w/ $780 + Dollars $2,500 $40 1.6% $2,54013 Meals per week w/ $500 + Dollars $2,500 $40 1.6% $2,54015 Meals per week w/ $400 + Dollars $2,500 $40 1.6% $2,540100 Meals per semester w/ $350 + Dollars $1,530 $0 0.0% $1,530

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

19 Meal Plan $2,022 $80 4.0% $2,10212 Meal Plan $1,818 $72 4.0% $1,890Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any dining services vending machines and retail operations.First-year students are required to purchase a 13, 15, or unlimited meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester they may switch to the ten-meal plan with $780 Plus Dollars.Mandatory for Lawn residents, residents of residential colleges and residents of language houses with dining facilities.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 1998-99 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1998. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents Proposed Rents UtilitiesUtilities1997-98AmountPercent1998-99 Paid byFurnishedPer Mthof Inc.of Inc.Per MthOccupant PropertiesPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)WS,E,G,C,T $410 $16 3.9% $4262 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS,E,G,C,T $525 $21 4.0% $5463 Bedroom Houses (4)WS,C,T $585 $23 3.9% $608 G,E3 Bedroom Houses (12)(R)WS,C,T $735 $29 3.9% $764 G,E3BR Townhouses (5)(R)WS,C,T $735 $29 3.9% $764 G,E121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom WS,E,G,C,T $405 $16 4.0% $421Apt. 2, 3 BedroomWS,E,G,C,T $465 $18 3.9% $483Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS,E,G,C,T $405 $16 4.0% $421Apt. 4, 2 BedroomWS,E,G,C,T $430 $17 4.0% $447Monroe Lane1 Bedroom (5)WS,G,C,T $375 $15 4.0% $390 E1 Bedroom (10)(R)WS,G,C,T $410 $16 3.9% $426 EEfficiency (1)WS,G,C,T $305 $8 2.6% $313 E404 Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C,T $465 $18 3.9% $483 E412A Monroe Ln (2BR)WS,G,C,T $480 $12 2.5% $492 E412B Monroe Ln (Eff)WS,G,C,T $320 $12 3.8% $332 ESundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR)WS,T $505 $20 4.0% $525 E,OUpper Alden (3BR)(F)WS,T,O,A/C $535 $21 3.9% $556 ELower Alden (2BR)WS,T,O,V $470 $31 6.6% $501 EMcGuffey Cottage (Eff)WS,E,T,V,A/C $355 $14 3.9% $369Upper Mews (1BR)(F)WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C $505 $20 4.0% $525Lower Mews (1BR)(F)WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C $425 $17 4.0% $442Brown Coll. Range (2BR)WS,C,HP,T,V $515 $20 3.9% $535 EBrown College Apt. (2BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $460 $18 3.9% $478Hereford Fac. Apts. (2BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $555 $22 4.0% $577Vaughn House (3BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $690 $27 3.9% $717102 Cresap Fac. Apt.(F)WS,E,G,T,V,A/C $515 $20 3.9% $535 Rents Proposed Rents UtilitiesUtilities1997-98 AmountPercent1998-99Paid byFurnishedPer Mthof Inc. of Inc.Per Mth Occupant PropertiesBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C,T $365 $14 3.8% $379 EGarage (2BR)WS,C,T $585 $12 2.1% $597 E,OCash House (3BR)WS,C,T $600 $24 4.0% $624 E,OBirdwood House (4BR)\*WS,C,T $850 $34 4.0% $884 E,O,GFaulkner PropertiesHolly House Upper (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $450 $9 2.0% $459Holly House Lower WS,E,G,C,T $265 $7 2.6% $272(1RM)(F)Hedge House (2BR)(F)WS,C,T $435 $17 3.9% $452 E,GOrchard House (5RMS)(F)WS,E,G,C,T $265 $7 2.6% $272Carriage House (4BR)WS,C,T $515 $20 3.9% $535 E,G118 Oakhurst,Upper (2BR)WS,G,C $495 $19 3.8% $514 E,T118 Oakhurst,Lower (2BR)WS,G,C $520 $0 0.0% $520 E,T409 Valley Road, (2BR)\*C $560 $22 3.9% $582 WS,E,G,T411 Valley Road, (2BR)C $560 $22 3.9% $582 WS,E,G,T503 Valley Road, (1BR)C $365 $14 3.8% $379 WS,E,G,TFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $475 $12 2.5% $487Apt. 12, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $475 $12 2.5% $487Apt. 14, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $475 $12 2.5% $487Apt. 15, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $475 $12 2.5% $487Apt. 21, (Eff)WS,E,G,C,T $325 $8 2.5% $333Apt. 22, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $375 $9 2.4% $384Apt. 23, (Eff)WS,E,G,C,T $315 $8 2.5% $323Apt. 24, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $365 $9 2.5% $374Apt. 25, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 26, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 27, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 28, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 31, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 32, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,T $385 $10 2.6% $395Apt. 33, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $420 $11 2.6% $431Apt. 34, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $420 $11 2.6% $431Apt. 35, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $420 $11 2.6% $431Apt. 36, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,T $420 $11 2.6% $431E & G PropertiesMontebello, (3 BR/Garage)WS,E,O,A/C $575 $23 4.0% $598 C,TBig Morea (4 BR) (F)WS,E,O,A/C,T $805 $32 4.0% $837 CLittle Morea (2BR) (F)WS,E,O,A/C,T $620 $24 3.9% $644 CSunnyside (4BR)WS,E,O,A/C $1,320 $52 3.9% $1,372 CBrown College House(4BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $745 $29 3.9% $774 CBuckingham PalaceWS,E,HP,A/C,T $275 $11 4.0% $286 C Rents Proposed Rents UtilitiesUtilities1997-98 AmountPercent1998-99Paid byFurnishedPer Mthof Inc. of Inc.Per Mth OccupantE&G PropertiesPavilion I (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $680 $27 4.0% $707Pavilion II (5BR)WS,HP,T,V $505 $20 4.0% $525 EPavilion III (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $680 $27 4.0% $707Pavilion IV (5BR)WS,HP,T,V $505 $20 4.0% $525 EPavilion V (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $680 $27 4.0% $707Pavilion VI (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $680 $27 4.0% $707Pavilion VIII Lower(1BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $230 $9 3.9% $239Pavilion VIII Upper(3BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $440 $17 3.9% $457Pavilion IX (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V $680 $27 4.0% $707Pavilion X (5BR)WS,HP,T,V $505 $20 4.0% $525 EPropertiesBlandy FarmCurator's House WS $0 $0 0.0% $0 E,OFarmhouse WS $645 $0 0.0% $645 E,OGreen Farm House WS $65 $0 0.0% $65 E,O

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEHouses (6)WS $450 $0 0.0% $450 G,E2 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G $445 $0 0.0% $445 E1 Bedroom Apt (2)WS,G $418 $0 0.0% $418 ECohen HouseN/A $575 $75 13.6% $650 WS,O,EAn asterisk (\*) denotes properties that have been improved.An "F" designates furnished properties.Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system), A/C (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice and data) and T (trash removal).As approved by the Board last year, Pavilion rental rates were increased by $20 per month during 1997-98 for voice/data. As leases turn over, Piedmont 1 BR apartment monthly rental rates will be increased by $25 to cover the cost of furniture.

APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FEES FOR LAW, GRADUATE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, AND MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following schedule of application fees be approved, effective July 1, 1998: Fees Collected Percent Present July 1, 1998 IncreaseUndergraduate $40 $40 0.0%Graduate $40 $40\` 0.0%(except Law and Darden)Law $40 $65 37.5%(including Graduate Law)Darden (including DBA) Domestic Students $75 $100 33.3% International Students $100 $100 0.0%Medicine $ 50 $ 60 20.0%

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CARR'S HILL ARTS PRECINCT
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Dagit.Saylor Architects of Pennsylvania, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Carr's Hill Arts Precinct.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE GROUNDSWALK
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Ayers Saint Gross of Baltimore, Maryland, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Groundswalk.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR A MEDICAL CENTER TERM CONTRACT
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Tobey+Davis of Reston, Virginia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the projects initiated under a Medical Center Term Contract.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1998:REGULAR SESSION:Virginian/Non-VirginianActual Amt of % of Proposed Actual Amt of % of Proposed1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99 1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99Tuition and Required E&G Fees for Undergraduate and Graduate School Full Time Students $3,885 $45 1.2% $3,930 $14,129 $749 5.3% $14,878Auxiliary Fees $869 $28 3.2% $897 $869 $28 3.2% $897

Total Tuition and Required Fees $4,754 $73 1.5% $4,827 $14,998 $777 5.2% $15,775

Professional Schools:ActualAmount of Percent ofSurcharge Proposed1997-98 Increase IncreaseIncrease1998-99 Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration1st Year, Virginian 13,748 715 5.2% 1,500 15,9632nd Year, Virginian 12,248 715 5.8% 1,500 14,463All Years, Non-Virginian 20,342 1,043 5.1% 21,385

School of Law
-------------

1st Year, Virginian 13,888 645 4.6% 14,5332nd Year, Virginian 12,388 645 5.2% 1,500 14,5333rd Year, Virginian 10,888 645 5.9% 1,500 13,033All Years, Non-Virginian 19,804 829 4.2% 20,633

School of Medicine

1st Year, Virginian 9,968 525 5.3% 1,000 11,4932nd Year, Virginian 9,968 525 5.3% 10,4933rd Year, Virginian 9,968 525 5.3% - 10,4934th Year, Virginian 9,968 525 5.3% - 10,493All Years, Non-Virginian 22,644 1,159 5.1% - 23,803 5694 Virginian Non-VirginianActual Amt of % of Proposed Actual Amt of % of Proposed1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99 1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99Music Lessons (13 one-hr \[1\] lessons per semester)$535 $16 3.0% $551 $535 $16 3.0% $551Mid-Career Program Fee $500 $0 0.0% $500 $500 $0 0.0% $500Activity FeeGeneral - All Students $32 $72 1.9% $39 $32 $72 1.9% $39Part-Time Students $10 $22 0.0% $12 $10 $22 0.0% $12College of A&S $4 $0 0.0% $4 $4 $0 0.0% $4Architecture $40 $0 0.0% $40 $40 $0 0.0% $40Commerce $10 $0 0.0% $10 $10 $0 0.0% $10Darden $55 $0 0.0% $55 $55 $0 0.0% $55Education $10 $0 0.0% $10 $10 $0 0.0% $10Engineering $10 $0 0.0% $10 $10 $0 0.0% $10Grad. Arts & Sciences $4 $0 0.0% $4 $4 $0 0.0% $4Law School $34 $0 0.0% $34 $34 $0 0.0% $34Medicine $174 - $64 - 3 6.8% $110 $174 - $64 - 3 6.8% $110Nursing $40 $0 0.0% $40 $40 $0 0.0% $40Residential College Programming Fee Hereford College $100 $0 0.0% $100 $100 $0 0.0% $100 Brown College $120 $0 0.0% $120 $120 $0 0.0% $120Mosaic House $0 $100 N/A $100 $0 $100 N/A $100\[1\] The cost of half-hour sessions will be prorated.

CONTINUING EDUCATION:

CurrentAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98 IncreaseIncrease1998-99Non-Degree Programs — Undergraduate & Graduate Per Semester Hour\* Virginian $141 $0 0.0% $141 Non-Virginian $215 $11 5.0% $226Professional Programs (including Certificate, Graduate & Undergraduate) Per Semester Hour

Northern Virginia Center:

Virginian $152 $5 3.3% $157 Non-Virginian $223 $11 4.9% $234 CurrentAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98IncreaseIncrease1998-99All Other Centers: Virginian $147 $4 2.7% $151 Non-Virginian $218 $11 5.0% $229Special Students Registered through and Admitted by the Division of Cont. Ed. in On-Grounds Courses Per Semester Hr Virginian $211 $0 0.0% $211 Non-Virginian $778 $39 5.0% $817Graduate Degree Programs Per Semester Hour Northern Virginia Center: Virginian $195 $6 3.1% $201 Non-Virginian $274 $14 5.1% $288 All Other Centers: Virginian $190 $6 3.2% $196 Non-Virginian $269 $13 4.8% $282Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour Northern Virginia Center: Virginian $242 $20 8.3% $262 Non-Virginian $431 $22 5.1% $453 All Other Centers: Virginian $237 $20 8.4% $257 Non-Virginian $426 $21 4.9% $447Application Fee for Certificate and Special Programs $25 $0 0.0% $25Late Registration Fee $25 $0 0.0% $25Change of Course Fee $12 $0 0.0% $12 Facilities Fee — Northern VA Ctr (Per Semester Hour) $10 $0 0.0% $10Transcript Fee $3 $0 0.0% $3Late Exam Fee $10 $0 0.0% $10\* Per semester hour rates for educators in K-12 will be $133 for Virginians and $206 for non-Virginians. 1999 SUMMER SESSION: CurrentAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98IncreaseIncrease1998-99Virginian (per semester hr) $136 $0 0.0% $136Non-Virginian (per semester hr) $493 $25 5.1% $518Thesis/Dissertation Research $408 $0 0.0% $408Appellate Judges Program $1,224 $0 0.0% $1,224Non-Resident Fee $58 $0 0.0% $58Late Payment Fee $25 $0 0.0% $25Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee $40 $0 0.0% $40 OTHER:Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

APPROVAL OF THE ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1998-99 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 1998, in the amount of $995; RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 1998-99 Session as follows:ActualAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98Inc/(Decr)Inc/(Decr)1998-99Pledged for Facilities-University Hall $15 $0 0.0% $15University Transit $72 $81 1.1% $80Auxiliary Services Fee(including debt service) $310-$11-3.5% $299Athletics $144 $6 4.2% $150Student Health $246 $15 6.1% $261University Union $79 $101 2.7% $89University Union Programs $16 $0 0.0% $16WTJU $4 $0 0.0% $4Capital Renewal Fee $24 $0 0.0% $24Arts Fee $12 $0 0.0% $12Technology Fee $0 $45 N/A $45TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS $922 $73 7.9% $995

APPROVAL OF SUMMER SESSION RATES
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1999:ActualAmount ofPercentProposed1997-98Inc/(Decr)Inc/(Decr)1998-99University Union $15 $21 3.3% $17Student Health $82 $5 6.1% $87University Transit $13 $21 5.4% $15Technology Fee $0 $5 N/A $5Recreational Facilities $0 $8 N/A $8TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE FEE FOR SUMMER SESSION OF 1999 $110 $22 20.0% $132

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other chargesapplicable to Clinch Valley College be approved as shown below,effective July 1, 1998: Virginian Non-VirginianActual Amt of % of Proposed Actual Amt of % of Proposed1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99 1997-98 Inc. Inc. 1998-99Tuition and Required E&G FeesFull-time Students (12 sem. hrs or more per sem.)Session Rate $2,368 $45\*1.9% $2,413 $7,236 $407 5.6% $7,643Auxiliary Fees$980 $1271 3.0% $1,107 $980 $1271 3.0% $1,107Total Tuition and Required Fees$3,348 $172 5.1% $3,520 $8,216 $534 6.5% $8,750Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below:Part-time Students (less than 12 sem. hrs per semester)Rate per semester hour $96 $0 0.0% $96 $300 $15 5.0% $315Off-Campus InstructionCredit Courses — Rateper semester hour $96 $0 0.0% $96 $209 $10 4.8% $219Non-Credit Courses -Rate per CEU $34 $0 0.0% $34 $103 $0 0.0% $103Other FeesApplication Fee $15 $0 0.0% $15 $15 $0 0.0% $15 Graduation Fee $50 $0 0.0% $50 $50 $0 0.0% $50 Returned Check Fee $15 $0 0.0% $15 $15 $0 0.0% $15 A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.\* Not to exceed amount authorized by General Assembly.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of Clinch Valley College, and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.2:1.B of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF CRITERIA TO CREATE THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Finance Committee has conducted a study of the University's investment operations and governance in light of the growing responsibility of managing the University's endowment; and WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors, authorizes the establishment of a subcommittee of the Finance Committee, to be known as the University of Virginia Investment Management Company; RESOLVED, upon the Rector's appointment of four members of the Finance Committee to the aforesaid subcommittee, the Board hereby delegates responsibility for investment and management of the University's endowment and non-state investments, including the retention of investment managers and services, to the subcommittee to be known as the University of Virginia Investment Management Company; and RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board may appoint no more than four public members who shall be alumni of the University, to serve, without compensation save reimbursement of expenses as permitted by University policy, as non-voting members to initial terms not to exceed four years, with eligibility of reappointment for consecutive four-year term, such that no member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive terms; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Treasurer of theUniversity of Virginia shall serve as the President of said company; and RESOLVED FURTHER, the said company shall invest and manage the University's endowment and non-state investments in accordance with applicable Board policy, as shall be in effect from time to time, and shall report its actions to the Finance Committee at its next meeting; and RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officials of the University are authorized to take all actions necessary to carry out this resolution; and RESOLVED FURTHER that this authorization shall continue in effect until repealed or otherwise modified by the Board of Visitors.

AMENDMENTS TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 1991
-------------------------------------------------------

REVISION TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS' MANUAL TOPROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following amendment be made to Section 3.21 of the Board Manual: The Board may delegate responsibility for management of the University's endowment and non-state investments to a subcommittee of the Finance Committee, to be known as the University of Virginia Investment Management Company. The subcommittee shall consist of the Rector, the chair of the Finance Committee who shall also be chair of the subcommittee, three members of the Finance Committee appointed by the Rector, the President or his/her designee, and a minority representation of not more than four members appointed by the Board from the general public for their investment experience and expertise.

AMENDMENT TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REGARDING ELECTION OF A RECTOR
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following amendment be made to Section 4.11 of the Board Manual:The Board at its first regular meeting after February 28, 1986, and every fourth year thereafter, shall elect a Rector from among its members to serve until February 28 of the fourth year thereafter. At the election meeting, the election shall be by majority vote of the members present following nominations, and the Secretary shall serve as the presiding officer until an election is accomplished unless the Board decides to appoint another presiding officer. The Secretary shall count the votes and announce the election of the Rector.

APPRECIATION TO RETIRING BOARD MEMBERS
--------------------------------------

The Rector expressed appreciation for the terms of the retiring members of the Board, Rector Hovey S. Dabney, Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead, and Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, and Ms. Kristine L. LaLonde, the Student Member, who have served the University with great devotion and distinction.

ELECTION TO FILL VACANCIES ON THE EXECUTIVECOMMITTEE
----------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that the election to fill vacancies on the Executive Committee will occur at a later date.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES
----------------------------------

The Rector announced that the announcement of standing committees will be made within the next few weeks.

RE-ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., be re-elected as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years, effective March 1, 1998.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts. The Report was accepted.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEAPPROVAL OF AN EASEMENT FOR THE HEALTHSCIENCES CENTER PARKING GARAGE FOR 600 VEHICLES INCREASE IN CAPITAL CAMPAIGN GOALADOPTION OF THE GOVERNOR'S STATEMENT ON EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AS UNIVERSITY POLICYMEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. EDGAR F. SHANNON, JR.APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF KENWOOD PROPERTY TO UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FOUNDATION (UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION) AND CONSTRUCTION OF LIBRARY FACILITYDATE FOR THE BOARD OF VISITORS' RETREAT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Leonard Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meeting on February 25, 1998:

WHEREAS, the University wishes to acquire a drainage easement under and across the Norfolk Southern railroad tracks and property along the south side of University property in the Health Sciences Center's East Precinct in support of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage for 600 Vehicles project; and WHEREAS, in 1996 the General Assembly authorized the construction of the Health Sciences Center Parking Garage project;RESOLVED that the acquisition of a drainage easement under and across Norfolk Southern property is approved by the Executive Committee for the Board of Visitors.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all easements, contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned.

WHEREAS, the Campaign for the University of Virginia was launched on October 6, 1995, with a goal of $750 million; andWHEREAS, the Campaign has made progress ahead of schedule, attracting to date more than $600 million in gifts and pledges from alumni, parents, friends, corporations, and foundations; andWHEREAS, generous donors have demonstrated a willingness to support transformational improvements to the University that will define its future; andWHEREAS, new priorities have emerged during the course of the Campaign, and the University's schools and programs have raised their respective campaign goals to address these needs; andWHEREAS, donors have shown exceptional vision by responding generously to the new campaign initiatives identified during the course of the Campaign; and WHEREAS, a number of critically important needs still remain unmet, including funds for facilities, the libraries, new technology, and the arts;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the goal for the Campaign for the University of Virginia be increased to $1 billion, including outright gifts and future support, to be raised through December 31, 2000.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following statement of the Governor of Virginia identified as Executive Order Number Two (98) be adopted as an official policy of the University of Virginia:Executive Order Number Two (98)By virtue of the authority vested in me as Governor, I hereby declare that it is the firm and unwavering policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia to assure equal opportunity in all facets of State government.This policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or political affiliation, or against otherwise qualified persons with disabilities.State appointing authorities and other management principals are hereby directed to take affirmative measures, as determined by the Director, Department of Personnel and Training, to emphasize the recruitment of qualified minorities, women, disabled persons, and older Virginians to serve at all levels of State government. This directive does not permit or require the lowering of bona fide job requirements, performance standards, or qualifications to give preference to any state employee or applicant for state employment.Allegations of violations of this policy shall be brought to the attention of the Office of Equal Employment Services of the Department of Personnel and Training. No state appointing authority, other management principals, or supervisors shall take retaliatory actions against persons making such allegations. Any state employee found in violation of this policy shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.The Secretary of Administration is directed to review annually state procurement, employment and other relevant policies for compliance with the non-discrimination mandate contained herein, and shall report to the Governor his findings together with such recommendations as he deems appropriate. The Director, Department of Personnel and Training, shall assist in this review.This Executive Order supersedes and rescinds Executive Order Number Two (94), Equal Opportunity, issued by Governor George Allen on January 15, 1994.This Executive Order shall become effective upon its signing and shall remain in full force and effect until amended or rescinded by further executive order.Given under my hand and under the Seal of the Commonwealth of Virginia this 17th day of January, 1998.James S. Gilmore\`Governor

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr. was born inLexington on June 4, 1918; andWHEREAS, Mr. Shannon took a B.A. summa cum laude from Washington and Lee University in 1939, an M.A. from Duke University in 1941 and, after distinguished and heroic service in the United States Navy during the Second WorldWar, another M.A. from Harvard University in 1947; and WHEREAS, as a Rhodes Scholar, Mr. Shannon was a Member of Merton College, Oxford University, from which he took the D.Phil. in 1949; and WHEREAS, in 1996, Oxford University awarded Mr. Shannonits highest honorary degree, the Doctor of Letters; and WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon joined the faculty of the University of Virginia in 1956 as an associate professor of English; and WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon was elected the fourth President of the University in 1959; and WHEREAS, during his presidency, the University grewin size and stature, opening wider its doors to women and minorities, attracting a renowned faculty and enlarging and improving its physical facilities; and WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon retired from the presidency in 1974 and returned to full time teaching and research as Commonwealth Professor of English, enhancing a reputation he had already established in this country and abroad as a leading Tennyson scholar; and WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon continued to serve the University, Virginia, and the nation as a member of numerous boards and commissions; and WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon died in Charlottesville on August 24, 1997; RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors notes with sorrow the death of Edgar Finely Shannon, Jr. and expresses its appreciation and admiration of his life and service, and for his contributions to the University of Virginia.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, certain property and improvements (hereinafter "Kenwood") containing 78.5 acres, more or less, in Albemarle County, Virginia, was devised by will to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved the acceptance of the terms of the Kenwood gift at its June 2, 1972 meeting; andWHEREAS, said property has been leased in part to the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation (TJMF) for purposes of housing the International Center for Jefferson Studies, a joint educational and research venture. The Center offers courses, seminars, conferences, talks, and lectures and provides research opportunities and fellowships for visiting scholars; and WHEREAS section 4-4.01q. of the 1996 Virginia Acts of Assembly authorizes the Governor of Virginia to approve transfers of real estate to the affiliated real estate foundations of the public institutions of higher education in Virginia where he finds that the property was acquired with local or private funds or by gift or grant to or for the institution;RESOLVED, upon and subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia as aforesaid, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby authorize the transfer and conveyance of the said Kenwood property to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for management on behalf of the University in accordance with the terms of the will and bequest of Mrs. Frances Nash Watson (Albemarle Circuit Court Book, 46, pages 475-484) and with the further stipulation that the said property may not be sold, mortgaged, liened, or hypothecated without the concurrence of the Board of Visitors for the University of Virginia, and that any sales proceeds shall be applied in accordance with the will or as may be directed by the Board of Visitors. Furthermore, the deed of conveyance shall additionally stipulate that the property shall be disposed of as may be further directed by the Board of Visitors; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President andChief Financial Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized, upon securing the approval of the Governor of Virginia as aforesaid, to execute the appropriate deed or other documents approved by General Counsel necessary to effectuate the foregoing transfer and conveyance. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is further authorizedto approve and agree to such other terms and conditions regarding the Foundation's management of the Kenwood property and lease thereof to the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, including a fair and appropriate management fee to the University of Virginia Foundation for the care and oversight of the Kenwood property, the disposition of any rental income or leasing of the property within delegated authority, and providing for the payment of taxes and other reasonable and necessary carrying charges; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to enter into agreements with the University of Virginia Foundation, and the University of Virginia Foundation in turn with the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, to effect a lease of such land as may be necessary to allow the construction of a library facility by the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation consistent with the conditions outlined below:The current lease, dated December 30, 1992, will likely be subsumed in the new agreement and the term extended. The term of the new lease will likely be 35 years. The lease may be extended as provided in the current lease at the end of any five-year period for an additional five years up to a maximum of 99 years.The revised lease will include a commitment by the TJMF that the proposed library will not compete with the Alderman Special Collections Library. TJMF will be solely responsible for the proper maintenance and upkeep of the leased premises, as required in the lease agreement of December 30, 1992. Appropriate provisions for inspection of the premises will be provided in the new lease. RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors may, at its discretion, invest funds in the improvement and repair of the property as may be necessary or advisable.

The Rector announced that the date for the Board Retreat has been set tentatively for July 9th. The Health Affairs Committee would meet on the preceding afternoon, July 8th.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS — ELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:Mr. Andrew A. Anderson as Visiting. Professor of Spanish, for the period January 10, 1998 through May 24, 1998.Dr. Gregory M. Bolduc as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1997.Dr. David A. Eberhard as Assistant Professor of Research in Pharmacology, for one year, effective November 25, 1997.Ms. Joan B. Fry as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective February 15, 1998.Dr. Kerry L. Kilbridge as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 25, 1998.s. Gail Maxwell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Art, for one semester, effective January 10, 1998.Mr. Stephen D. Patek as Assistant Professor of Systems Engineering, for the period January 1, 1998 through December 24, 2000.Mr. Richard J. Price as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective December 25, 1997.Mr. James E. Ryan as Associate Professor of Law, for the period January 10, 1998 through January 9, 2003.Ms. Mary E. Ropka as Research Associate Professor in the Center for Survey Research and Associate Professor of Research in Health Evaluation Sciences, for the period January 10, 1998 through June 24, 2000.Mr. Brian Lee Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective January 10, 1998.Ms. Suzanne I. Sollars as Research Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective January 15, 1998.Mr. Abdulkader I. Tayob as Visiting Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 10, 1998.Mr. William G. Thomas, III as Research Assistant Professor in the Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities, for one year, effective January 10, 1998.Mr. De-Xing Zhang as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurology, for one year,. effective November 25, 1997.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholders

Mr. David L. Ashcraft as Brenton S. Halsey Distinguished Visiting Professor of Chemical Engineering and Related Disciplines, for the period January 10, 1998 through May 24, 1998. 24, 1998.Dr. R. J. Canterbury as Wilford W. Spradlin Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective December 25, 1997.Mr. Samuel Mockbee as Harry Shure Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective August 25, 1997.Ms. Julie C. Novak as Theresa A. Thomas Professor of Primary Care Nursing, for three years, effective January 1, 1998.Mr. Benjamin C. Ray as Daniels Family Distinguished Teaching Professor of Arts And Sciences, effective August 25, 1997.Dr. Diane G. Snustad as Chairholder of the Claude Moore Professorship in Geriatrics, for the period January 25, 1998 through June 30, 1999.Dr. Michael O. Thorner as Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 25, 1998.

(b) Special Salary Action of Chairholders Deleted

(c) Retirements of Chairholders

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Martin C. Battestin, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Battestin has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1961.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, Isidore Horween Research Professor of Business Administration and Professor of International Business Economics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Grayson has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1971.Mr. Carl T. Herakovich, Henry L. Kinnier Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Herakovich has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1987.Mr. Dell H. Hymes, Professor of English and Commonwealth Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Hymes has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1987.Mr. Thomas C. MacAvoy, Paul M. Hammaker Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. MacAvoy has been a member of the faculty since January 16, 1988.Mr. Oscar L. Miller, Jr., Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Miller has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1973.Mr. James J. Murray, Jr., Samuel Miller Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Murray has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.Mr. James M. Ortega, Charles Henderson Professor of Engineering and Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Ortega has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Ramazani has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1954.Mr. Richard M. Rorty, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities and University Professor, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Rorty has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1982.Ms. Charlotte H. Scott, University Professor of Commerce and Education, effective May 24, 1998. Ms. Scott has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1976.Mr. James G. Simmonds, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science and Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Simmonds has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1966.Mr. Thomas E. Thompson, Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Biochemistry, effective December 31, 1997. Mr. Thompson has been a member of the faculty since July 1,1966.Mr. Robert H. Trent, Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company Professor of Commerce, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Trent has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

(d) Resignation of Chairholder

The following resignation was announced:

Mr. Gary A. Banker, John T. and Louise Nerancy Professor of Neurosciences, effective December 31, 1997, to accept another position.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Ms. Barbara Y. Croft, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective February 13, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Larry G. Dennis, Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective November 30, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Hinrich Hargarter, Research Assistant Professor of Materials Science, effective February 15, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Mark L. Hartman, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 29, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. A. Andrew John, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective April 24, 1998, to accept another position.Mr. Theodore Kuzen, Assistant Librarian, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective January 31, 1998, for personal reasons.Dr. George H. Lindbeck, Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, effective December 31, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. Robert W. Lourie, Associate Professor of Physics, effective January 9, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Ravinder K. Mittal, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 1, 1997, to accept another position.Mr. John R. Redick, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective December 30, 1997, to accept another position.Ms. Susan E. Tulis, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective January 8, 1998, for personal reasons.Ms. Valdrie N. Walker, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective January 6, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Van D. Westervelt, Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, effective January 8, 1998, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Antharvedi Anne, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Anne has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger, Associate Professor of Biology, effective January 9, 1998. Mr. Benzinger has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Professor of Classics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Colker has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1953.Mr. Michael H. Coopersmith, Associate Professor of Physics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Coopersmith has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1969.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Edsall has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. Alastair D. Fowler, Professor of English, effective January 9, 1998. Mr. Fowler has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.Mr. Michael Garstang, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 9, 1998. Mr. Garstang has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Ms. Lydia Gasman, Associate Professor of Art, effective May 24, 1998. Ms. Gasman has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1981.Ms. Carol J. Gleit, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective January 9, 1998. Ms. Gleit has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1977.Mr. H. Grant Goodell, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 9, 1998. Mr. Goodell has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Gunter has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1965.Mr. Charles M. Heuchert, Associate Professor of Education, effective August 30, 1998. Mr. Heuchert has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.Mr. Prahaban K: Kabir, Professor of Physics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Kabir has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Kauzlarich has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1963.Mr. Shiv S. Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Kumar has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Maroney has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1956.Mr. H. Clifton McCleskey, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. McCleskey has been a member of the faculty since June 1, 1973.Dr. Howard A. Montgomery, Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective May 31, 1998. Dr. Montgomery has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1983.Mr. Mark P. Morford, Professor of Classics, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Morford has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1984.Ms. Greta Morine-Dershimer, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1998. Ms. Morine-Dershimer has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1988.Mr. John T. Roberts, Associate Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Roberts has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.Mr. Robert J. Sack, Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Sack has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1987.Ms. Sandra L. Schmidt, Professor of Commerce, effective August 24, 1998. Ms. Schmidt has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1982.Mr. Arthur I. Schulman, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Schulman has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson, Associate Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1998. Mr. Simpson has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1968.Mr. Roger B. Stein, Professor of Art History, effective June 24, 1998. Mr. Stein has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1986.Ms. Dorothy Twohig, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 24, 1998. Ms. Twohig has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1969.Mr. D. Alan Williams, Associate Professor of History, effective May 24, 1998. Mr. Williams has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

Ms. Joan B. Fry as Special Assistant to the President for five years, effective February 15, 1998.Mr. Bradford K. Holland as University Ombudsman for three years, effective November 10, 1997.Ms. Elizabeth L. Jolly as Assistant for State Government Relations to the VP and Service Center Administrator for two years, effective November 30, 1997.Mr. William J. Randolph as Assistant Vice President and Director of the Core Systems Replacement Project for three years, effective may 1, 1998.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Antharvedi Anne, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. Martin C. Battestin, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Professor of Classics, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Michael Garstang, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 9, 1998.Mr. H. Grant Goodell, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective January 9, 1998.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, Isidore Horween Research Professor of Business Administration and Professor of International Business Economics, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. Carl T. Herakovich, Henry L. Kinnier Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Dell H. Hymes, Professor of English and Commonwealth Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Prahaban K. Kabir, Professor of Physics, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. Thomas C. MacAvoy, Paul M. Hammaker Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. H. Clifton McCleskey, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Oscar L. Miller, Jr., Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Mark P. Morford, Professor of Classics, effective May 24, 1998.Ms. Greta Morine-Dershimer, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. James J. Murray, Jr., Samuel Miller Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. James M. Ortega, Charles Henderson Professor of Engineering, effective May 31, 1998.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Richard M. Rorty, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities and University Professor, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Robert J. Sack, Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1998.Ms. Sandra L. Schmidt, Professor of Commerce, effective August 24, 1998.Ms. Charlotte H. Scott, University Professor of Commerce and Education, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. James G. Simmonds, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science and Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Roger B. Stein, Professor of Art History, effective June 24, 1998.Mr. Thomas E. Thompson, Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Biochemistry, effective December 31, 1997.r. Robert H. Trent, Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company Professor of Commerce, effective May 24, 1998.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: Associate Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Ms. Carol J. Gleit, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective January 10, 1998.Mr. Charles M. Heuchert, Associate Professor of Education, effective August 30, 1998.Mr. D. Alan Williams, Associate Professor of History, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Rolf H. Benzinger, Associate Professor of Biology, effective January 9, 1998.Mr. Michael H. Coopersmith, Associate Professor of Physics, effective May 24, 1998.Ms. Lydia C. Gasman, Associate Professor of Art, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Shiv S. Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. John T. Roberts, Associate Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Arthur I. Schulman, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective May 24, 1998.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson, Associate Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1998.Ms. Dorothy A. Twohig, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 24, 1998.

DEATH
-----

The following death was announced:

Dr. Michael J. Gaffey, Associate Professor of Pathology, died December 20, 1997. Dr. Gaffey has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1990.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. BARBARA J. HALEY
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Barbara J. Haley as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1997, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Barbara J. Haley as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective January 10, 1998.

ELECTION OF MR. GENE D. BLOCK AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH AND PUBLIC SERVICE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. Gene D. Block is elected Vice President for Research and Public Service, for the period March 25, 1998 through June 30, 2003.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
----------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------

The following appointment was announced:

Mr. Larry W. Arrington as Director of the A. Linwood Holton Governor's School for the period January 20, 1998 through July 30, 1999.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—RETIREMENTS
---------------------------------

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. James Rex Baird, Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Baird has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.Mr. Bill J. Lee, Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, effective June 30, 1998. Mr. Lee has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1978.Ms. Betty M. Johnson, Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, effective January 31, 1998. Ms. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since June 15, 1987.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo, Professor of Spanish, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Portuondo has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1968.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. James Rex Baird, Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1998.Ms. Betty M. Johnson, Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, effective January 31, 1998.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo, Professor of Spanish, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1998.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. Bill J. Lee, Associate Professor of Accounting, Clinch Valley College, effective June 30, 1998.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 1:30 p.m.

Respectfully submitted, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary

AGG: jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

 

yesor no

 

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

 

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

 

Champ Clark

yes

 

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

 

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

 

T. Keister Greer

yes

 

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

 

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

 

Terence P. Ross

yes

 

Albert H. Small

absent

 

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

 

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

 

Walter F. Walker

absent during vote

 

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

 

James C. Wheat, III

yes

 

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

 

Kristine L. LaLonde

yes

 

Meeting Date: March 28, 1998

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 16

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 1

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 28, 1998, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTS yesor no John P. Ackerly, IIIyes Charles M. Caravati, Jr.yes Champ Clarkyes William G. Crutchfield, Jr.yes William H. Goodwin, Jr.yes  T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Hollandyes Timothy B. Robertsonyes Terence P. Rossyes Albert H. Smallabsent Elizabeth A. Twohyyes Henry L. Valentine, IIyes Walter F. Walkerabsent during vote Benjamin P.A. Warthenyes James C. Wheat, IIIyes Joseph E. Wolfeyes Kristine L. LaLondeyes
