---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1998'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
May 29-30, 1998 The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:25 a.m., on Friday, May, 29, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, James C. Wheat, III, and J. Michael Allen. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Gene D. Block, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

I. INTRODUCTION OF MR. PETE GILLEN
----------------------------------

The Rector called the Board to order, and introduced Mr. Pete Gillen, the new Head Coach for Men's Basketball. Mr. Gillen addressed the Board briefly. The President remarked that Mr. Gillen's coming to the University is almost entirely the result of the way Mr. Holland, the Director of Athletics, handled the search for a new Coach. The University, he said, owes Mr. Holland a debt of gratitude. Mr. Holland thanked the President for his remarks, and said several University offices, including the President's Office, assisted in the search.

II. ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------

AUDIT COMMITTEE Elizabeth A. Twohy, Chair Timothy B. Robertson Benjamin P.A. Warthen James C. Wheat, III

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE Albert H. Small, Chair J. Michael Allen William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. Terence P. Ross Benjamin P.A. Warthen James C. Wheat, III

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE COMMITTEE William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair Champ Clark Joseph E. Wolfe

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE Champ Clark, Chair J. Michael Allen T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwyn Holland Elizabeth A. Twohy Walter F. Walker Joseph E. Wolfe

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE John P. Ackerly, III, Chair Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark William H. Goodwin, Jr. Terence P. Ross

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE T. Keister Greer, Chair Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Elsie Goodwyn Holland Timothy B. Robertson Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Henry L. Valentine, II

FINANCE COMMITTEE William H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair Timothy B. Robertson Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II Walter F. Walker James C. Wheat, III

HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Joseph E. Wolfe

STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION COUNCIL OF VISITORS Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Chair

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE Henry L. Valentine, II, Chair Walter F. Walker, Vice-Chair/Athletics J. Michael Allen Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark Elsie Goodwyn Holland Benjamin P.A. Warthen

The Rector, Mr. John P. Ackerly, III, is an ex officio member of all committees.

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1998, the following members were elected to the Executive Committee of the Board to serve until the Annual Meeting in the Spring of 1999:

John P. Ackerly, III Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark William H. Goodwin, Jr. Terence P. Ross

III. APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES

The Rector announced his appointments to the Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in the Spring of 1999:

AUDIT COMMITTEE Elizabeth A. Twohy, Chair Timothy B. Robertson Benjamin P.A. Warthen James C. Wheat, III BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE Albert H. Small, Chair J. Michael Allen William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. Terence P. Ross Benjamin P.A. Warthen James C. Wheat, III CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE COMMITTEE William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair Champ Clark Joseph E. Wolfe EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE Champ Clark, Chair J. Michael Allen T. Keister Greer Elsie Goodwyn Holland Elizabeth A. Twohy Walter F. Walker Joseph E. Wolfe EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE John P. Ackerly, III, Chair Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark William H. Goodwin, Jr. Terence P. Ross EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE T. Keister Greer, Chair Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Elsie Goodwyn Holland Timothy B. Robertson Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Henry L. Valentine, II FINANCE COMMITTEE William H. Goodwin, Jr., Chair Timothy B. Robertson Elizabeth A. Twohy Henry L. Valentine, II Walter F. Walker James C. Wheat, III HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Chair William G. Crutchfield, Jr. William H. Goodwin, Jr. T. Keister Greer Terence P. Ross Albert H. Small Joseph E. Wolfe STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION COUNCIL OF VISITORS Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Chair STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE Henry L. Valentine, II, Chair Walter F. Walker, Vice-Chair/Athletics J. Michael Allen Charles M. Caravati, Jr. Champ Clark Elsie Goodwyn Holland Benjamin P.A. Warthen The Rector, Mr. John P. Ackerly, III, is an ex officio member of all committees.

IV. APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, MARCH 27-28, 1998
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Minutes of the meeting of March 27-28, 1998, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present:

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss nominations of individuals to serve on the University of Virginia Investment Management Company public membership, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) and (6) of the Code of Virginia. That the Educational Policy, and Special Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Visitors, go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation, and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A. (1) of the Code of Virginia. That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing proprietary, business related information of the Medical Center in connection with its proposed and existing joint ventures, and the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, when if made public initially the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) and (24) of the Code of Virginia. That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the Purpose of Consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(7) of the Code of Virginia. That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to recently completed evaluations of certain University departments and programs, and employee performance, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:30 a.m., Friday, May 29, 1998; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert W. Cantrell, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Capone, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Don E. Detmer, Gene D. Block, L. Jay Lemons, Richard W. Miksad, Haydn N.G. Wadley, W. Reed Johnson, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Board heard a report from Mr. Greer, Chair of the Special Committee appointed by the Rector to consider a request to appeal the decision of the Administration to shut down the nuclear reactor at the School of Engineering. Mr. Greer told the Board the Committee had voted to uphold the decision of the Administration. The Board voted 11-3 to accept the recommenda- tion of the Special Committee.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session (see enabling motion above), at 1:10 p.m., Friday, May 29, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert W. Cantrell, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Capone, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Don E. Detmer, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

At 4:10 p.m., the Board went into Open Session and recessed.

The Board resumed, in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:20 p.m. The President proposed resolutions creating three professorships, a resolution renaming a building at the University, and a resolution naming a building at Clinch Valley College.

I. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID A. HARRISON III PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, David A. Harrison III of Prince George County, an alumnus of the College and of the School of Law, has been a wise and most generous friend of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison, in addition to other generous benefactions to the School of Law, has provided for the establishment of a professorship in law;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the David A. Harrison III Professorship in Law and thanks Mr. Harrison for this latest manifestation of his devotion to and support of the University of Virginia.

II. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDWIN S. COHEN DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW AND TAXATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Edwin S. Cohen, an alumnus of the School of Law, has had a most distinguished career as a practicing attorney, as a teacher, and as an authority on tax law; and

WHEREAS, through the generosity of Professor Cohen and of his son, Edwin C. Cohen, funds have been provided for the establishment of a Chair in Law and Taxation;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Professor Cohen and Mr. Edwin C. Cohen for their generosity and establishes the Edwin S. Cohen Distinguished Professorship in Law and Taxation in the School of Law.

III. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KOSCIUSZKO PROFESSORSHIP IN POLISH STUDIES
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Tadeusz Kosciuszko, the great Polish patriot, was a friend of the American Revolution and an officer in the Continental Army, as well as a friend of Thomas Jefferson; and

WHEREAS, General Kosciuszko is an enduring symbol of freedom and of Polish-American friendship; and

WHEREAS, generous friends of Poland and of the University of Virginia have provided funds for the establishment of a chair in Polish Studies;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Kosciuszko Professorship in Polish Studies, in an academic department to be designated by the Vice President and Provost, as appropriate to the incumbent's activities and participation in the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, and expresses appreciation to the generous benefactors, and for the leadership of Mrs. Blanka Rosenstiel, who have made the Professorship possible.

IV. NAMING OF ASTRONOMY BUILDING
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Division of Forestry has vacated the Forestry Building; and

WHEREAS, the Astronomy Department will move into the building in June 1998, and will be its major occupant;

RESOLVED that the Forestry Building be renamed the Astronomy Building.

V. NAMING THE CAMPBELL S. EDMONDS WING OF THE JOHN COOK WYLLIE LIBRARY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the C. Bascom Slemp Foundation contributed generously in support of the John Cook Wyllie Library addition and renovation project, and

WHEREAS, the Slemp Foundation has historically supported libraries and education in Wise and Lee Counties, and

WHEREAS, Campbell S. Edmonds was a much-loved trustee of the Slemp Foundation;

RESOLVED that the addition to the John Cook Wyllie Library at Clinch Valley College be named the Campbell S. Edmonds Wing in honor of Mr. Edmonds.

On motion, the Board adjourned at 4:45 p.m.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session (see the enabling motion above) at 7:10 a.m., Saturday, May 30, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Robert W. Cantrell, Peter W. Low, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Ernest H. Ern, Gene Block, Don E. Detmer, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Board went into Open Session at 9:00 a.m., and, on motion, adjourned.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session (see enabling motion above) at 11:10 a.m., Saturday, May 30, 1998, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen were present. John T. Casteen, III, was also present.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 12:45 p.m., with, in addition to the persons present in the Executive Session, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes present.

I. APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTIONS FOR TERM CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Ellerbe Becket of Washington, D.C., and Mitchell/Matthews & Associates of Charlottesville, are approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under term contracts for the Medical Center and Academic Division, respectively.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARY PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 29, 1998, and prepared by Hartman Cox Architects of Washington, D.C., for the Special Collections Library project, are approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES, CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE SCIENCE BUILDING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 29, 1998, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Clinch Valley College Science Building project, are approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CLARK HALL ADDITION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 27, 1998, and prepared by Ellenzweig Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts, for the construction of the Clark Hall Renovation and Addition project is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING AND MEDICAL SCIENCE BUILDING PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 27, 1998, and prepared by Henningson, Durham, and Richardson of Alexandria, Virginia, for construction of the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building, is approved;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE BLANDY FARM HOUSING PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the firm of Bushman Dreyfus Architects of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Blandy Farm Housing project.

ASSIGNMENT OF UPPER APARTMENT IN PAVILION VIII
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Visitors that the apartments in Pavilion VIII be occupied by members of the teaching faculty who have shown a commitment to Thomas Jefferson's concept of life in the Academical Village;

RESOLVED that the upper apartment in Pavilion VIII be assigned to Professor Cristina Della Coletta, Assistant Professor of Italian, and her family effective the Summer of 1998, for a term of four years from that date.

APPROVAL TO CHANGE DEGREE TITLE
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the degree title M.A. Clinical Ethics be changed to M.A. in Bioethics.

APPROVAL TO AMEND CRITERIA FOR THE CREATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors approved the criteria to establish the University of Virginia Investment Management Company on March 27, 1998 (hereinafter referred to as Criteria); and

WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors authorizes the creation of the Investment Management Company and calls for its membership to ”consist of the Rector, the chair of the Finance Committee who shall also be chair of the subcommittee, three members of the Finance Committee appointed by the Rector, the President or his/her designee, and a minority representation of members appointed by the Board from the general public for their investment experience and expertise.“

RESOLVED that the Criteria are amended to accomplish two changes. Consistent with the Board Manual, one change authorizes the Rector's appointment of three, not four, members of the Finance Committee to the Investment Management Company.

RESOLVED FURTHER, the second change provides for staggered terms of public members appointed by the Board, as follows:

The Board may appoint no more than four public members who shall be alumni of the University, to serve, without compensation save reimbursement of expenses as permitted by University policy, as non-voting members to staggered initial terms not to exceed four years. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive four-year terms. Appointment to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired term with eligibility for reappointment to no more than two successive four-year terms.

APPROVAL OF THE 1998-99 BUDGET OF PRATT ESTATE FUNDS FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences in an amount not to exceed $4.0 million for 1998-99, as suggested by the department chairs, as recommended by the deans of each school, and as approved by the Vice President and Provost, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, the President and the Finance Committee. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

DECLARATION OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations (the "Regulations"), governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the Regulations, the University hereby declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

The University reasonably expects to reimburse expenditures incurred for the construction of the Student Residence Hall, the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building, the Parking Deck for 600 Vehicles and Infrastructure Improvements Project, the Scott Stadium Expansion and the Clinch Valley College Student Center with proceeds from the issuance of tax- exempt bonds (the ”bonds“) to be issued by the University through the Treasury board;

This resolution is a declaration of official intent under Section l.l50-2 of the Regulations;

The maximum principal amount of bonds expected to be issued for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures relating to the construction of the Student Residence Hall is $6 million, the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Science Building is $41.3 million, the Parking Deck for 600 and Infrastructure Improvements is an additional $2.6 million (for a total authorization of $7.1 million), the Scott Stadium Expansion is an additional $10 million (for a total authorization of $60 million), and the Clinch Valley College Student Center is $8 million.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT FOR BLOOD PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized to approve and execute a new agreement to allow the Medical Center to procure blood products and services.

APPROVAL OF CONFLICT OF INTERESTS REGARDING UVA/HEALTH SERVICES FOUNDATION CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Virginia State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act permits and exempts personal interests of medical faculty in contracts between a state institution of higher education which operates a school of medicine and its physician faculty practice plan (the group practice organization through which faculty conduct their clinical practice); and

WHEREAS, the University's faculty practice plan, the Health Services Foundation, supports the University's medical education programs by serving as the group clinical practice organization for the School of Medicine faculty, allowing them to maintain and convey their skills to medical students within the Medical Center and related clinics, and by providing compensation that helps to attract and retain highly qualified faculty;

RESOLVED, as permitted by the Act, the Board of Visitors hereby approves the personal interests of School of Medicine faculty arising from their clinical income interest in the Health Services Foundation, which serves the University as its group practice plan.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 1998-1999
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 1998-1999, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE SCOTT STADIUM EXPANSION PARKING PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated May 29, 1998, and prepared by Heery International of Atlanta, Georgia, for the parking component of the Scott Stadium Expansion project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC AND PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE BLANDY FARM HOUSING PROJECT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic and preliminary design, dated May 29, 1998, and prepared by Bushman Dreyfus Architects of Charlottesville, for the Blandy Farm Housing project, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLUTION TO DEMOLISH MILLER HALL
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that with deep regret, the Board of Visitors recommends that Miller Hall be replaced with the entrance pavilion to the new Special Collections Library, and that there be an effort to reuse brick from the building to memorialize Samuel B. Miller, for whom Miller Hall is named.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board's recommendations on Miller Hall would be subject to the necessary State approvals.

APPROVAL TO REVISE COPYRIGHT POLICY
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Copyright Policy was adopted by the Board of Visitors on May 30, 1986; and

WHEREAS, the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform has examined the existing Copyright Policy for accuracy and applicability; and

WHEREAS, on February 9, 1997, the Board of Visitors, on the advice of the Ad Hoc Committee on Policy Reform, referred this resolution to the Educational Policy Committee for review and revision;

RESOLVED that the Copyright Policy approved on May 30, 1986, be rescinded; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the following Copyright Policy be established effective May 30, 1998:

INTRODUCTION The objective of this policy is to encourage the production of copyrightable works that contribute to the professional stature of their author(s) and that advance the University's scholarly, academic, and public service missions. This policy governs the respective ownership rights of the University and its employees in copyrightable material produced within the scope of employment. The intention of this policy is that the University will not assert its ownership interest in copyrightable scholarly and academic works created by academic and research faculty who use generally available University resources. The University asserts its ownership interest in copyrightable works, however, if significant University resources (including sponsor-provided funds) are used in the creation of the work and: (a) the work generates royalty payments; or (b) the work is of commercial value that can be realized by University marketing efforts. In such cases, the University will share royalties with the author(s). The University's share of royalties from copyrightable works will be used by the Vice President for Research and Public Service to support research, teaching, and scholarly activities.In cases where the provisions of this policy state that the University cedes copyright ownership to the author(s), it is the intention that such ownership will be ceded to the author(s) by operation of this policy without further action by the University.DEFINITION Copyright is a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States to "original works of authorship" including literary, dramatic, musical, artistic, and certain other intellectual works, whereby copyright owners may claim, for a limited time, certain exclusive rights to specified works. This protection is available to both published and unpublished works and gives the copyright owner the exclusive right to reproduce, distribute, sell, perform, display, or prepare derivatives of the work, and to protect a copyright against infringement. Copyright protection does not extend to an idea, procedure, process, slogan, principle, or discovery.OWNERSHIP Work-for-Hire RuleThe "work-for-hire" rule, defined in the Copyright Act, provides that when an employee produces a copyrightable work within the scope of employment, the copyright to that work belongs to the employer and not to the author. Employee OwnershipThe employee owns the rights to any work created at his or her own initiative and outside the scope, time, and place of employment.The University cedes copyright ownership to the author(s) of scholarly and academic works (such as journal articles, books, and papers) created by academic and research faculty who use generally available University resources. However, the University asserts its right of copyright ownership if significant University resources (including sponsor-provided funds) are used in the creation of such works, and: (a) the work generates royalty payments; or (b) the work is of commercial value that can be realized by University marketing efforts.Use of the University's name in connection with the commercialization of a faculty work must be approved in advance by the University. University OwnershipBy operation of the copyright law, the University owns in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the University's corporate name) all rights, title and interest in copyrightable works created by University employees while acting within the scope of their employment. The University cedes copyright ownership to the author(s) of scholarly and academic works (such as journal articles, books, and papers) created by academic and research faculty who use generally available University resources. However, University asserts its right of copyright ownership if significant University resources (including sponsor-provided funds) are used in the creation of such works, and: (a) the work generates royalty payments; or (b) the work is of commercial value that can be realized by University marketing efforts.Even in cases where the University retains copyright ownership under this policy, it may cede such ownership to the work's author(s) by written agreement signed by the Vice President for Research and Public Service and approved by the appropriate Provost.The University retains a non-exclusive, royalty-free right to use for non-commercial purposes works produced by its employees while acting within the scope of employment even if copyright ownership is ceded to the author(s).The University may assign its copyright ownership for purposes of commercialization.ELABORATION "Significant" University ResourcesThe use of University resources is "significant" when it entails substantial and dedicated use of University equipment, facilities, or personnel. The use of a computer in a faculty office, incidental supplies, and occasional use of University personnel or shared facilities would typically not be considered significant use. In contrast, utilization of University laboratories or special instrumentation, dedicated assistance by University employees, special financial assistance, or extensive use of shared facilities would constitute significant use. Sponsor-Supported EffortFunds and facilities provided by governmental, commercial, industrial, or other private organizations which are administered and controlled by the University shall be considered University resources for purposes of this policy. Sponsors and ContractsWhen under the terms of a contract with the University a sponsor obtains copyright ownership in any copyrightable work that may result from the sponsored effort, that contract takes precedence over this policy. If the sponsor does not assert an ownership interest, copyright ownership vest with the University as provided in this policy.RESPONSIBILITIESA. Vice President for Research and Public ServiceThe Vice President for Research and Public Service is responsible for the implementation and administration of this copyright policy and for securing and marketing copyrights in the University's name and shall: Develop standards and procedures appropriate for the implementation of this policy.Determine if significant University resources have been used in the creation of a copyrightable work.Determine whether and under what conditions to cede copyright ownership to the author(s) of a work owned by the University under this policy. Promptly advise authors of decisions regarding copyright ownership.Determine whether copyrights owned by the University are marketable, and if so, ensure that appropriate marketing steps are taken on behalf of the University.Establish guidelines for distribution of royalties when the University owns a copyright.Distribute royalties accruing to the University as a result of the implementation of this policy.Make a finding as to ownership in any case where the rights of the University and of an employee appear to be in conflict and report such finding to the appropriate Vice President and Provost for final resolution.B. The Vice President and ProvostWithin their designated areas of responsibility, the Vice President and Provost of the University and the Vice President and Provost of Health Sciences shall:Approve standards and procedures developed by the Vice President for Research and Public Service for implementation of the copyright policy.At the written request of an aggrieved party or on the Provost's own motion, review determinations by the Vice President for Research and Public Service of ownership of a copyright. Affirm, modify, or reject determinations of copyright ownership made by the Vice President for Research and Public Service, or make such determinations outright if the Vice President for Research and Public Service does not resolve the matter in a timely manner.Conduct an annual review of the copyright program with the Vice President for Research and Public Service.

APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JEFFERSON SCHOLARS PROGRAM SUBSIDIARY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University Policy on University-related Foundations requires that any related foundation seeking to establish a subsidiary acquire Board of Visitors' approval; and

WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer recommends that, in the best interests of the University of Virginia, the Board of Visitors approve the establishment of a wholly-owned, non-profit, non-stock, tax-exempt subsidiary to hold and administer the Jefferson Scholars Program in accordance with the terms of any gift instrument or restriction;

RESOLVED that the University of Virginia Alumni Association's ownership of the Jefferson Scholars Program Subsidiary be approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1998-99 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 1998-99 Budget for the Academic Division be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1998-99 BUDGET FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 1998-99 Budget for Clinch Valley College be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1998-99 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 1998-99 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase of 5.0 percent, be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

MEDICAL CENTER COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PROGRAM
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Codified Autonomy legislation allowed the Medical Center to develop a Compensation and Benefits program aligned with the health care industry; and

WHEREAS, the Compensation and Benefits Program will have a phased implementation between July and December of 1998, to allow for orientation and education of management and staff; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors reserves the right to amend these plans and to govern and manage the affairs of the University of Virginia Medical Center at all times;

RESOLVED that the Medical Center Compensation and Benefits Program Policy Statement is approved, subject to the foregoing (see Attachment).

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported on the Gifts, Grants, and Contracts. The Report was accepted.

1999 BOARD MEETING DATES
------------------------

Friday and Saturday January 29 and 30, 1999 Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday March 26 and 27, 1999 Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday May 14 and 15, 1999 Charlottesville

Friday and Saturday October 15 and l6, 1999 Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors' meeting dates for 1999 are as follows:

Friday and Saturday January 29 and 30, 1999 Charlottesville Friday and Saturday March 26 and 27, 1999 Charlottesville Friday and Saturday May 14 and 15, 1999 Charlottesville Friday and Saturday October 15 and l6, 1999 Charlottesville

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR P. HUNTER FAULCONER
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, P. Hunter Faulconer was born in 1906, and took a Bachelor of Science from the University in 1930; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Faulconer, as an undergraduate at the University was an athlete who lettered in football, a member of the Honor Committee and an active participant in a number of organizations; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Faulconer was President of the Alumni Association, and a co-founder and President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Faulconer was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Almond in 1960, and reappointed by Governor Harrison in 1964; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Faulconer served his community, the University and the Commonwealth with distinction; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Faulconer died in Charlottesville on April 12, 1998;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors notes with profound sadness P. Hunter Faulconer's death and expresses gratitude for his devoted service to the University.

EXTENSION OF THE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO SELL THE ASSETS OF THE NEUROCLINICAL TRIALS CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, at the January meeting of the Board of Visitors, the Board authorized the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to sell the assets of the Neuroclinical Trials Center, with the review and approval of a subcommittee of the Board appointed by the Rector and in consultation with the General Counsel; and

WHEREAS, the authorization expires June 30, 1998 unless extended by the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, although the University is actively negotiating with potential purchasers of the assets of the division and intends to close the transaction by mid-June, there is a possibility that the closing will not occur by or before June 30, 1998.

RESOLVED that the authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to sell the assets of the Neuroclinical Trials Center, with the review and approval of a subcommittee of the Board convened by the Rector in consultation with the General Counsel, is extended to August 31, 1998. The transaction shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Visitors.

APPROVAL OF THE PUBLIC MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT COMPANY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board Manual authorizes the Board of Visitors to appoint to the University of Virginia Investment Management Company no more than four public members, who shall be alumni of the University, to serve as non-voting members to staggered initial terms not to exceed four years.

RESOLVED that the following alumni(ae) shall be appointed to serve as public members of the University of Virginia Management Company for noted terms beginning July 1, 1998:

A. MacDonald Caputo, for four years,Matthew G. Thompson, for three years,Christine P. Gustafson, for two years, and

RESOLUTION OF AFFIRMATION FOR THE PRESIDENT
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, The Honorable James S. Gilmore, III, at the 1998 Final Exercises, publicly recognized the leadership of Our President, John T. Casteen, III, in making the University of Virginia the number one public University in the United States; and

WHEREAS, Our President has developed, implemented, and led the most successful Capital Campaign ever among public universities and has raised more than $700 million to date, in record time; and

WHEREAS, Our President, in his 1998 State of the University Aitemress, articulated a vision for continuation and extension academic excellence at into 21st century, predicated upon four-part initiative that will (1) rededicate's commitment to basic sciences; (2) establish an "arts precinct" on Grounds as means reinvigorating creative community; (3) expand international programs; (4) commit increased public service outreach Commonwealth;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia aitem their acknowledgement to that of Our Governor in recognizing the central role that Our President has played in leading the University to its current position as the number one public university in the United States; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University extend their heartfelt thanks and sincere appreciation to the President for this significant accomplishment, and pledge to him Our support in the years to come in sustaining this high level of academic excellence; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors express our full confidence in Our President to successfully complete the ongoing Capital Campaign, and encourage all alumni and friends of the University to come forward and assist Our President in achieving the historic goal we have set for him, to wit, to raise $1 billion by the end of the year 2000; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors concur in the vision of academic excellence articulated by Our President in his 1998 State of the University Aitemress, and charge him to initiate immediately all proper and appropriate planning and execution for each of the four above-described initiatives, with the expectation and understanding that our intent is for him to lead the University toward implementation of these initiatives concurrently and to continue beyond the completion of the Capital Campaign.

REPORT FROM THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO HEAR AN APPEAL TO A TENURE DECISION
------------------------------------------------------------------------

After hearing a report from the Special Committee appointed by the Rector to consider a request to the Board of Visitors to hear an appeal to a tenure decision, the Board concurred in the Committee's recommendation that the Board of Visitors not hear the appeal.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 1:05 p.m.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS — ELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the facultyMs. Eileen O. Boris as Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Almut D. Burchard as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Michael E. Cox as Assistant Professor of Research In Microbiology, for one year, effective February 1, 1998.Mr. Barry J. Cushman as Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Gary W. Gallagher as Professor of History, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Larisa V. Gubareva as Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective April 1, 1998.Mr. S. Brooks Marshall Ls Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective August 2.5, 1998.Mr. George A. Zitnay as Professor of Research in Neurological Surgery, in the Department of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective March 2, 1998.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating too the chairholders are approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholders

Ms. Karen S. Chase as Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Professor, for two years, effective June 25, 1998. Ms. Chase will continue as Professor of English, without term.Dr. Howard P. Gutgesell, Jr., as J. Francis Dammann Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, effective February 25, 1998. Dr. Gutgesell will continue as Professor of Pediatrics, without term.Dr. John Kattwinkel as Charles I. Fuller, Jr., Professor of Neonatology, effective February 25, 1998. Dr. Kattwinkel will continue as Professor of Pediatrics, without term.Dr. James S. Tiedeman as DuPont Guerry, III, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, effective April 25, 1998. Dr. Tiedeman will continue as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, for the period April 25, 1998 through June 30, 1998.Mr. Philip Zelikow as White Burkett Miller Professor of History, effective June 25, 1998.

(b) Promotions of Chairholders

Dr. Marie-Louise Hammarskjold from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Mark E. Parry from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. James S. Tiedeman from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology to Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 1, 1998. Dr. Tiedeman will continue as DuPont Guerry, III, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology.

(c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders Deleted

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:Mr. Simon P. Anderson from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of Economics, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. John F. Angle from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for four years, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Barbara E. Armacost from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. David A. Bobak from Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Julian Bond from Lecturer, General Faculty, to Professor, General Faculty, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Stephen M. Borowitz from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, and Associate Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences to Professor of Pediatrics, without term, and Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, for two years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Glen L. Bull from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Harsha K. Chelliah from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Michael F. Christman from Associate Professor of Microbiology, with term, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Dana R. Clyman from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 1998. effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Roger B. Cohen from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with term, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, effective July 1, 1998. without term, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Alon Confino from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Jack W. Davidson from Associate Professor of Computer Science to Professor of Computer Science, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Richard N. Day from Associate Professor of internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, and Associate Professor of Cell Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Gia Ann DeAngelis from Assistant Professor of Clinical Radiology to Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Cristina Della Coletta from Assistant Professor of Italian to Associate Professor of Italian, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Paul T. Diamond from Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Joshua F. Dienstag from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Marcel E. Durieux from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, and Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Phillip N. Geiger from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. David F. Germano from Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Joanna B. Goldberg from Associate Professor of Microbiology, with term, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. David E. Haines from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. John C. Harrison from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. David Herman from Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Suzanne Holroyd from Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Elizabeth G. Hudson from Assistant Professor of Music to Associate Professor of Music, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Julia C. Iezzoni from Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology to Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, and Associate Professor of Clinical Otolaryngology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Robert R. Jones, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Arlene W. Keeling from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Adrienne E. Keller from Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Maria D. Kelly from Assistant Professor of Clinical Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology to Associate Professor of Clinical Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Natalie W. Kononenko from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Cheryl L. Krueger from Assistant Professor of French, General Faculty, to Associate Professor of French, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Pamela A. Kulbok from Associate Professor of Nursing, with term, to Associate Professor of Nursing, without term, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Elisabeth Ladenson from Assistant Professor of French to Associate Professor of French, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. George S. Leisure from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Jon E. Lendon from Associate Professor of History, with term, to Associate Professor of History, without term, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. John P. Leschke from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Jeanne M. Liedtka from Associate Professor of Business Administration, with term, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, without term, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Kant Y.K. Lin from Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery and Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, and Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. John W. Lloyd from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Maria Beatriz Sampaio Lopes from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. John Marshall from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Lorna Martens from Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures to Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Alan H. Matsumoto from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Marcia S. McDuffie from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Eugene D. McGahren, III from Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, and Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Dr. Robert S. Michel from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Wladek Minor from Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, with term, to Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Kevin D. Murphy from Assistant Professor of Architectural History to Associate Professor of Architectural History, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Robert K. Nakamoto from Assistant Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. R. Ryan Nelson from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Steven A. Newman from Associate Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology to Professor of Clinical Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Dinko Pocanic from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Ronald E. Reeve from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Lisa A. Reilly from Assistant Professor of Architectural History to Associate Professor of Architectural History, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. George F. Rich from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with term, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Kathryn M. Rohe from Assistant Professor of Drama to Associate Professor of Drama, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Zhifeng Shao from Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics to Professor of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. William H. Sherman from Associate Professor of Architecture, with term, to Associate Professor of Architecture, without term, effective August 25, 1998.Mr. Jiri Sklenar from Assistant Professor of Research in Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. James A. Smith from Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Ingrid H. Soudek from Associate Professor of Technology, Culture and Communication to Professor of Technology, Culture and Communication, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. David J. Stone from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without term, and Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery to Professor of Anesthesiology, without term, and Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Gang Tao from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Dan Theodorescu from Assistant Professor of Urology to Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Daniel B. Willingham from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. Douglas F. Willson from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1998.Mr. Melvin N. Wilson from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 1998.Dr. William G. Wilson from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Michiko N. Wilson from Associate Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures to Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures, effective August 25, 1998.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced:

Dr. John M. Castellano, Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective April 1, 1998, to accept another position.Ms. Laura A. Chung, Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, effective December 31, 1997, for personal reasons.Dr. Jacques E. Dion, Professor of Radiology and Professor of Neurological Surgery, effective April 3, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Philip S. Feldman, Professor of Pathology, effective March 10, 1998, for personal reasons.Ms. Elva M. Holland, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective April 17, 1998, for personal reasons.Mr. Jeffrey A. Jones, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective March 31, 1998, for personal reasons.Mr. Robert M. Umek, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective March 28, 1998, to accept another position.Mr. Carroll W. Westfall, Professor of Architectural History, effective May 24, 1998, to accept another position.Mr. Christopher J. Wingard, Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, effective March 31, 1998, to accept another position.Dr. Horacio F. Zaglul, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective April 13, 1998, to accept another position.Mr. Ziyin Zhang, Assistant Professor of Research in Neuroscience, effective February 16, 1998, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced:

Mr. Jason S. Bell as Assistant to the President, for five years, effective March 1, 1998.Mr. Peter J. Gillen as Head Men's Basketball Coach, for seven years, effective April 1, 1998.Mr. Philip Zelikow as Director, White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for five years, effective June 25, 1998.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced:

Mr. Robert P. Dillman as Chief Facilities Officer, for three years, effective April 15, 1998.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1998.Ms. Karin Wittenborg as University Librarian, for five years, effective July 1, 1998.

CHANGE IN THE SALARY ACTION DELETED
-----------------------------------

APPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions:(i) the officer or employee and the immediate family member are engaged in teaching, research, or administrative support positions at the educational institution, (ii) the governing board of the educational institution finds that it is in the best interest of the institution and the Commonwealth for such dual employment to exist, and (iii) after such finding, the board establishes and oversees the implementation of reporting relationships and a supervisory structure to ensure that the officer or employee, or the immediate family member, does not supervise, evaluate or otherwise participate in personnel decisions regarding the other; andWHEREAS, Dennis R. Parks and Roseann N. Parks, who are married to each other, are both general faculty members in the Division of Continuing Education; andWHEREAS, Dennis R. Parks is a member of the Division of Continuing Education, of which Roseann N. Parks is the Director of the Charlottesville Regional Center, and Dennis R. Parks is Associate Dean; andRESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ Dennis R. Parks and Roseann N. Parks in their positions as members of the general faculty in the Division of Continuing Education, and as Associate Dean and Director of the Charlottesville Regional Center respectively;RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Roseann N. Parks' capacity as a member of the Division of Continuing Education, she reports directly to and is supervised by Anda L. Webb, Associate Dean; and (b) regarding Dennis R. Parks' position as Associate Dean, there is no reporting or supervisory relationship between Dennis R. Parks and Roseann N. Parks.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—PROMOTIONS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following faculty members are promoted:Mr. Stanley C. Kunigelis from Associate Professor of Zoology, Clinch Valley College, with term, to Associate Professor of Zoology, Clinch Valley College, without term, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Mary D. O'Quinn from Assistant Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Psychology, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Margie A. Tucker from Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1998.Ms. Marla L. Weitzman from Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective August 25, 1998.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE—CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MS. BETTY M. JOHNSON
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the retirement of Ms. Betty M. Johnson, Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, effective January 31, 1998, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 28, 1998, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Betty M. Johnson, Professor of Nursing, Clinch Valley College, effective June 30, 1998. Ms. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since June 15, 1987.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 1:05 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary

AGG:jb

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPOSED COPYRIGHT POLICY1. INTRODUCTION2. OWNERSHIPa. Generalb. Professional rights of University Facultyc. Rights of University Employeesd. Proprietary Interests of the University3. ASSIGNED DUTY4. 'SIGNIFICANT USE' OF UNIVERSITY FACILITIES, PERSONNEL AND RESOURCES5. SPONSOR-SUPPORTED EFFORT6. OTHER CONTRACTS WITH THIRD PARTIES7. STUDENT WORKS8. UNIVERSITY OWNERSHIP OF COPYRIGHT9. DISTRIBUTION OF ROYALTIES OR OTHER INCOME10. ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIESa. Procedures for Reporting Hatpriallb. Responsibilities of the Associate Provost for Researchc. The Provostd. The Office of Sponsored Programs
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

PROPOSED COPYRIGHT POLICY

The University of Virginia seeks to protect and promote the development of scholarly works by faculty, employees, and students. The University recognizes that such works contribute to the professional development of the authors, and at the same time increase the reputation of the University and enhance the knowledge of the public.

The objective of the University's copyright policy is to identify the proper owner of the copyright interest in a work created by someone connected with the University, and to clarify the circum- stances under which the University will exercise any rights it may have in a work. The University is committed to maintaining traditional incentives for scholarly work and its dissemination while protecting, within the framework of copyright law, the rights of individuals and the University. To this end, all University employees are subject to the provisions of this policy as a condition of employment.

The copyright owner of a work has the exclusive right to reproduce, distribute, sell, lend, lease, license, perform, display, or prepare derivatives of the work. A copyright owner can enforce a copyright against infringement.

Ownership of the copyright interest in a work vests initially in the author of the work. The Copyright Act of 1976 provides that when a copyrightable work is produced by one person who has been employed by another for that purpose, it is the employer, not the work's creator, who is considered the author for copyright purposes. An exception to this rule involves faculty members' copyrightable works, even though such works are expected as part of their obligation to produce scholarly and academic works. The University will not claim an interest in such works unless they require significant use of University facilities, personnel or resources, or are part of a specific assignment.

It has long been a recognized right of members of the faculty to write and produce materials subject to copyright, to copyright those materials and to receive royalties resulting from their use. Such materials include, but are not limited to books, articles, artwork, computer software, film, and videotape. The University encourages these activities.

Faculty shall retain -all rights relating to copyright owner- ship, including but not limited to the sale, publication, distribution and classroom use of materials which they have prepared on their own initiative without significant use of University facilities, personnel or resources. This provision includes scholarly papers published in journals and books, as well as unpublished scholarly works. However, works developed pursuant to a faculty member's administrative duties or works specifically assigned by a person acting on behalf of the University may be deemed to be the property of the University.

Generally, the University will exercise ownership rights to an employee's work when development of the work was within his scope of employment or pursuant to a specific assignment. The employee owns the rights to any work created at his own initiative, outside the scope of employment and developed without significant use of University facilities, personnel, or resources.

In order to encourage creative efforts by faculty and other employees, the University shall be deemed to own all rights, title and interest in materials subject to copyright only when:

i. the materials result from an assigned duty of a University employee or faculty member; or

ii. significant use of University facilities, personnel or resources is made in the produc- tion of the materials.

The University may waive some or all of its interest in a work in favor of the work's creator depending on the circumstances of creation.

When a work is prepared by an employee within the scope of employment, under copyright law it is considered a 'work made for hire." Generally, the University will exercise ownership under the work made for hire rationale only when the employee was given an assignment to create the product whose ownership is in question. A FACULTY MEMBER'S GENERAL OBLIGATION TO PRODUCE SCHOLARLY WORKS DOES NOT CONSTITUTE SUCH A UNIVERSITY ASSIGNMENT.

For purposes of the Copyright Policy only, a faculty member's scope of employment shall not be considered to include preparation of copyrightable materials in connection with that person's teaching assignments, participation in research projects, artistic creations, or other scholarship which flow from individual initiative. The University will not claim a copyright interest in these works unless their creation was part of a specific assignment by a chairman, dean or other University administrator, or required significant use of University facilities and resources.

What constitutes 'significant use' of University facilities, personnel and resources is a question that must be answered on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each case. Significant use of University facilities, personnel and resouces is that use which is over and above that provided in the normal course of school, depart- ment and University support of faculty members in pursuit of, their scholarly and professional activities. The University will not construe the use of office or library as constituting significant use of facilities, nor will it construe the payment of salary. as constituting significant use of funds. Examples of University resources that may be considered include, but are not limited to, computer use, a graduate assistant's services, laboratory materials, and secretarial assistance.

Funds and facilities provided by governmental, commercial, industrial or other private organizations which are administered and controlled by the University shall be considered to be funds and facilities provided by or through the University for purposes of this policy. Agreement between the University and the sponsor pertaining to share of royalties and title to copyrightable materials shall be the responsibility of the University.

University employees who contract with third parties for the development of copyrightable works can relinquish no greater interest in the materials than they possess. Therefore, if the employee makes significant use of University facilities, personnel or resources to develop the materials, the University retains an interest in the work, regardless of the terms of the contract between the University employee and, the third party, unless the University specifically waives its rights.

In the case of a commissioned or specially ordered work created for the University by an independent contractor, the University may claim a copyright interest in the work. Such work - falls within the class of works made for hire, but differs from works created by University employees in that a written agreement signed by both parties is required before the University can claim the copyright interest in the independent contractor's work.

Copyrightable works, including dissertations, developed in connection with course work by students who are not University employees are deemed to belong to the student. However, the University may claim copyright ownership of a work when extraordinary use of University facilities, personnel, or resources- is made in the development of the materials, especially when unrelated to coursework.

The University shall claim in its name the copyright to materials in which the Associate Provost for Research has determined the University possesses a proprietary interest. The Associate Provost for Research may assign the University's rights to the copy- right.

In general, the work's author (s) will receive, from any work in which it is determined that the University owns the copyright interest, fifty percent of the net royalties or other income which accrue.

All potentially valuable, copyrightable materials in which the University may have an interest under the provisions of this policy shall be promptly reported in writing by University personnel concerned through the department head and dean to the Associate Provost for Research, for the purpose of determining whether and to what extent the University has a proprietary interest in the material. If more than one individual participated in the work's development, the report shall indentify the percent of each participant's interest, and shall be signed by all participants. The report shall include a complete disclosure of the identity of all persons participating in the development, and of the subject matter of the materials concerned. The participants shall furnish additional information and execute documents fromr time to time as the Associate Provost for Research may reasonably request.

The Associate Provost for Research is responsible for the implementation and administration of this copyright policy and for securing copyrights in the University's name.

The Associate Provost for Research shall:

Develop standards and procedures appropriate f or the implementation of this policy; Advise the author as to ownership of copyright in a work; Promptly consider all reports of materials and determine the circumstances of creation to establish whether the work involved significant use of University facilities, personnel or resources, was a work made for hire, or was the product of the-creator's initiative. Such deter- minations will be made within 30 days; Determine whether to copyright a work. in the Univer- sity's name, or to waive some or all of those rights in favor of the work's creator; Determine whether the copyrightable work in which the University holds an interest is marketable, and if so, take appropriate steps in behalf of the University for marketing the work, including transferring the University's rights to the Alumni Patents Foundation or another entity; Establish guidelines for distribution of royalties when the University and the work's creator share in the copyrights; Distribute royalties accruing to the University as a result of the implementation of this policy.

In any case where the rights of the University and of any employee appear to be in conflict, the Associate Provost for Research shall make a finding as to ownership and shall report such finding to the Provost for final resolution.

The Provost shall:

Approve the standards and procedures and any amendment thereto developed by the Associate Provost for Research for the implementation of the Copyright Policy; At the request of any interested party or on his own motion, review any determination of the Associate Provost. The Provost may affirm, modify, or reject any determination of the Associate Provost for Research, and may make his own determination if the Associate Provost does not make a determination within 30 days after the work was reported; Conduct an annual review of the copyright program with the Associate Provost for Research.

In implementing the Copyright Policy, the Office of Sponsored Programs shall:

Inform the Office of the Associate Provost for Research of all requirements regarding copyrights in any grant or contract accepted by University of Virginia; In conjunction with the office of the Associate Provost for Research, provide all copyright and other pertinent information as required by the terms of a grant, contract, or agreement to which the University is a party.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETINGOF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OFVIRGINIA
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

 

yesor no

 

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

 

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

 

Champ Clark

yes

 

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

 

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

 

T. Keister Greer

yes

 

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

 

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

 

Terence P. Ross

yes

 

Albert H. Small

absent

 

Elizabeth A. Twohy

absent

 

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

 

Walter F. Walker

yes

 

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

 

James C. Wheat, III

yes

 

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

 

J. Michael Allen

yes

 

Meeting Date: May 29, 1998

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday,May 29, 1998, at 1:10 p.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1)only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in\*closedsession; and (2) only public business matters identified inthe public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTS yesor no John P. Ackerly, IIIyes Charles M. Caravati, Jr.yes Champ Clarkyes William G. Crutchfield, Jr.yes William H. Goodwin, Jr.yes  T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Hollandyes Timothy B. Robertsonyes Terence P. Rossyes Albert H. Smallabsent Elizabeth A. Twohyabsent Henry L. Valentine, IIyes Walter F. Walkeryes Benjamin P.A. Warthenyes James C. Wheat, IIIyes Joseph E. Wolfeyes J. Michael Allenyes  

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

 

yesor no

 

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

 

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

 

Champ Clark

yes

 

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

 

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

 

T. Keister Greer

yes

 

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

 

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

 

Terence P. Ross

yes

 

Albert H. Small

absent

 

Elizabeth A. Twohy

absent

 

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

 

Walter F. Walker

yes

 

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

 

James C. Wheat, III

yes

 

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

 

J. Michael Allen

yes

 

Meeting Date: May 30, 1998

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, May 30, 1998, at 7:00 a.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in'closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTS yesor no John P. Ackerly, IIIyes Charles M. Caravati, Jr.yes Champ Clarkyes William G. Crutchfield, Jr.yes William H. Goodwin, Jr.yes  T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Hollandyes Timothy B. Robertsonyes Terence P. Rossyes Albert H. Smallabsent Elizabeth A. Twohyabsent Henry L. Valentine, IIyes Walter F. Walkeryes Benjamin P.A. Warthenyes James C. Wheat, IIIyes Joseph E. Wolfeyes J. Michael Allenyes  

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

 

yesor no

 

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

 

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

 

Champ Clark

yes

 

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

 

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

 

T. Keister Greer

yes

 

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

 

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

 

Terence P. Ross

yes

 

Albert H. Small

absent

 

Elizabeth A. Twohy

absent

 

Henry L. Valentine, II

yes

 

Walter F. Walker

yes

 

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

 

James C. Wheat, III

yes

 

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

 

J. Michael Allen

yes

 

Meeting Date: May 30, 1998

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. Secretary, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, May 30, 1998, at 11:10 a.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted we're discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAMEVOTECOMMENTS yesor no John P. Ackerly, IIIyes Charles M. Caravati, Jr.yes Champ Clarkyes William G. Crutchfield, Jr.yes William H. Goodwin, Jr.yes  T. Keister Greeryes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Hollandyes Timothy B. Robertsonyes Terence P. Rossyes Albert H. Smallabsent Elizabeth A. Twohyabsent Henry L. Valentine, IIyes Walter F. Walkeryes Benjamin P.A. Warthenyes James C. Wheat, IIIyes Joseph E. Wolfeyes J. Michael Allenyes
