---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1999'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 14 1999
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:30 a.m., on Friday, May 14, 1999, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Robert G. Schoenvogel. John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Gene D. Block, Terry Holland, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, MARCH 26-27, 1999
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked for a motion approving the Minutes of the March 26-27 meeting of the Board. The motion was offered and the Minutes approved.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector thanked Mr. Crutchfield for his gift to the Board of recording equipment.

The Rector announced that at the October meeting, the Board will be given a reception at Monticello and will hold its dinner at Ash Lawn.

The Rector informed the Board that negotiations with the Qatar Foundation about the proposed branch of the University in Doha were still underway and that the next stage requiring Board consideration would not come before the middle of June. There was discussion about the Executive Committee acting on behalf of the full Board and a motion from Mr. Ross to empower the Executive Committee to act for the full Board. The Rector called for the vote, which was 8 for Mr. Ross motion and 6 against. The Rector asked for another vote with the Executive Committee abstaining; the vote was 5 for, 5 against. The Rector suggested that another vote be taken at the Boards meeting the next day.

In accordance with the requirements set forth in the Board Manual, the Rector confirmed the committee appointments made after the March meeting and asked for a motion to re-elect the Executive Committee. The motion was made, seconded and approved.

The Rector announced the appointment of a special committee to review the procedures for assigning Pavilions and to rewrite them if necessary. He appointed Ms. Twohy to chair the committee and Mr. Clark and the Secretary to serve.

The Board adopted the following resolution of appreciation to Mr. Allen, who served as the Student Member from March, 1998 to March, 1999:

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR JAMES MICHAEL ALLEN
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, James Michael Allen of Dallas, Texas, was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in January, 1998; and WHEREAS, Mr. Allens term expired in March, 1999; andWHEREAS, Mr. Allen served the Board and the University with great distinction; and WHEREAS, Mr. Allen will take his Bachelors degree from the College of Arts and Sciences on May 23rd; RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks James Michael Allen for his collegiality as a Member of the Board and for his devoted service to the University of Virginia, and wishes him every success in his future study of medicine.

At the Rector's request, Mrs. Holland reported on recent activities of the State Council for Higher Education in Virginia. She told the Board about the State Councils annual conference for Boards of Visitors, which was held this year on April 30th in Richmond. Mr. Robertson reported on recent sessions of the Governors Blue Ribbon Committee.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

In his report, the President described the new Robertson Media Center, which is nearing completion in the Clemons Library, and some of the programs which will be centered on it. He reported on the beginnings of planning for period after the Capital Campaign. Finally, he noted the innovation, for this Board meeting, of the new Fiscal Impact Statements for business brought to the Board for action.

The Board, with all Members present, went into Open Session at 1:15 p.m. in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda on Friday, May 14, 1999. After approving several motions to meet in Executive Session, the Board went into Executive Session at 1:25 p.m:

The following motions were adopted: That the Special Committee of the Board on Admission questions go into Executive Session to discuss threatened litigation and to seek the advice of General Counsel regarding admission policies, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia. That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session with General Counsel to evaluate contract negotiations with the Qatar Foundation, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia. That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel on pending litigation and student disciplinary proceedings, and for legal advice on Code requirements governing meetings and document requests, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(2) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss fund-raising and potential gifts to the University in connection with our Campaign, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(8) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of evaluating investment strategies and investment managers relating to University Endowment Funds where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing proprietary, business related information pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center, concerning its regional primary care business development strategies and contract negotiations related to a proposed Integrated Healthcare Information Management System; as well as the investing of public funds where competition and bargaining is involved, where if made public initially the financial interest of the University would be adversely affected. This is provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6), (8) and (24) of the Code of Virginia.That the Special Committee to Review the Processes and Operations of the University of Virginia Medical Center go into Executive Session for discussion with Counsel regarding probable litigation, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia; and for evaluation of the performance of departments and programs where personnel decisions regarding individual officers and employees might be affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to evaluate the proposed acquisition and use of two parcels of real property, where discussion in an open meeting may adversely affect negotiating strategy and value of the property, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (3) of the Code of Virginia.That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for a discussion of personnel assignments in, and disposition and use of, University facilities, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1), (3), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed its Executive Session at 4:55 p.m.

The Board, with all Members present, convened in Open Session at 5:00 p.m., Friday, May 14, 1999, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. The Board voted to establish a professorship and to rename two others.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BLAINE T. PHILLIPS DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Blaine T. Phillips of Wilmington, Delaware, was a leader among his peers as a student at the University of Virginia; and WHEREAS, Mr. Phillips took his B.A. in 1952, and his LL.B. in 1955; and WHEREAS, Mr. Phillips has had a distinguished career in the law in Wilmington and has been a civic leader in his city and in his state; and WHEREAS, in his love and devotion for the University, Mr. Phillips has realized the promise he showed as a student and has been a leader among the Universitys alumni; and WHEREAS, the Fairplay Foundation of Wilmington and friends of Mr. Phillips have provided funds to establish a professorship honoring Mr. Phillips and recognizing his interest in the law and in environmental questions; RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Blaine T. Phillips Distinguished Professorship in Environmental Law, thanks the friends of Mr. Phillips who have made this possible, and expresses its gratitude to Mr. Phillips for all he has contributed to the life of the University.

RENAMING OF THE WILLIAM L. MATHESON & ROBERT M. MORGENTHAU DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, William L. Matheson took an LL.B. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1950 and had a distinguished career in business and law; and WHEREAS, Mr. Matheson endowed a research professorship in law in 1995 which the Board of Visitors in that year established as the William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Research Professorship in Law; and WHEREAS, the Matheson-Morgenthau Professorship honors both Mr. Morgenthaus distinguished achievements, first as United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York and then as District Attorney for the District of New York, as well as Mr. Mathesons friendship with Mr. Morgenthau; and WHEREAS, Mr. Matheson has increased the endowment for the Matheson-Morgenthau Professorship to the point where it is now eligible for designation as a distinguished professorship; RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Research Professorship in Law the William L. Matheson and Robert M. Morgenthau Distinguished Professorship in Law and thanks Mr. Matheson for his generous support which has made this possible.

RENAMING OF A DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Arts & Sciences Alumni Council in 1992 endowed a Distinguished Professorship in Arts & Sciences which was established by the Board of Visitors that year; and WHEREAS, Hugh P. Kelly at the time of his death in 1992 was Alumni Council Thomas Jefferson Professor of Physics and had been Provost of the University and previously Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences and an atomic physicist of international repute; and WHEREAS, in 1992 the Distinguished Professorship in Arts & Sciences was renamed the Hugh P. Kelly Distinguished Professorship in honor of Mr. Kelly; and WHEREAS, inadvertently the renaming of the Professorship was not brought to the Board of Visitors for approval; RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the Distinguished Professorship in Arts & Sciences, established by the Arts & Sciences Alumni Council in 1992, the Hugh P. Kelly Distinguished Professorship in Arts & Sciences and in so doing honors the distinguished career and service to the University of Mr. Kelly.

The Board adjourned at 5:25 p.m.

The Board, with all Members present, met briefly in Open Session as the full Board, at 12:00 noon, on Saturday, May 15, 1999, to discuss several administrative matters.

The Rector reminded the Board of the Retreat on July 24th at Upper Brandon in Prince George County. The Health Affairs Committee will meet the day before, July 23rd, at noon, at Upper Brandon. The Rector has asked Mr. Warthen to assist him in preparing an Agenda for the Retreat, and he urged Members to submit their suggestions for Agenda items.

In discussing the vote taken the day before on how to consider the next phase of the Qatar negotiations, the Rector, following a suggestion made by Mr. Crutchfield, proposed that the Executive Committee consider the proposed contract, approve it if it does not differ substantially from the terms approved by the Board previously, or refer it to the full Board for consideration if there are significant differences. Mr. Goodwin said that if it proves necessary for the full Board to consider the terms, it will be important that all Members be present. Mr. Crutchfields suggestion was accepted by the Board.

Finally, the Rector suggested that the Board begin its future meetings at 2:00 p.m., on Thursday, and continue through Friday and Saturday morning to early Saturday afternoon.

The Board, with all Members present, resumed its Executive Session, recessed from the day before, at 12:20 p.m. in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda on Saturday, May 15, 1999.

At 2:10 p.m., with all Members present, the Board resumed in Open Session and approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 1999-2000
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. These allocations, which are not to exceed $2.6 million for 1999-2000, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school, and approved by the Vice President and Provost, the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, the President, and the Finance Committee. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF THE PUBLIC MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors authorizes the Board to appoint to the University of Virginia Investment Management Company no more than four public members, who shall be alumni of the University, to serve as non-voting members in staggered initial terms not to exceed four years; RESOLVED that Donald Laing, III, of Charlottesville, shall be appointed to serve as a public member of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company for a term of four years beginning July 1, 1999.

APPROVAL OF CHANGE IN TRUSTEE AND REINVESTMENT OF ASSETS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POOLED INCOME FUND
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute a Second Amendment to the Amendment and Restatement of Trust Agreement for the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund thereby providing for the University to appoint itself as Successor Trustee to the Fund, to invest the assets of the Pooled Income Fund in the Core Equity and Bond Fund portfolios of the University's Pooled Endowment Fund and to charge fees against principal. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment A).

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO THE FACULTY RETIREMENT PLAN
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, under the terms of the Universitys Faculty Retirement Plan, the Board of Visitors has the sole authority to amend the Plan; and WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors finds that the Plans eligibility rules should be amended to include salaried, part-time faculty members working at least twenty hours per week with a minimum six-month appointment; RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized and directed to execute and amend the Plan as described above. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment B).

AMENDMENT TO THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLAN FOR THE GENERAL FACULTY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(As Restated January 1, 1996)

AMENDMENT TO THE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLAN FOR THE GENERAL FACULTY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (the Plan) by the UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (the University).
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WITNESSETH:WHEREAS, The Plan was restated effective January 1, 1996, and WHEREAS, the University desires to amend the Plan to expand the class of employees eligible to participate in the Plan, and WHEREAS, section 7.1 of the Plan permits the University to amend the Plan, RESOLVED, the Plan is hereby amended as follows: Plan section 1.6 is amended to read as follows effective July 1, 1999: D. Eligible Employee A salaried Employee who is a member of the General Faculty of the University, as that term is described in the Faculty Handbook of the University; is a Senior Scientist or Principal Scientist as determined by the University in its sole and absolute discretion; worked for Agency 209 of the University of Virginia Medical Center and was a Participant in this Plan as of December 31, 1998; or, effective September 1, 1998, is a member of the faculty of the University of Virginia's College at Wise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee shall not be an Eligible Employee if he or she is one of the following: a visiting faculty member, as that designation is determined by the Employer at the commencement of employment; a faculty member regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per week; a faculty member with an appointment of less than six (6) months; or an Employee who participates in the Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for Employees of the University of Virginia Medical Center.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE PEABODY HALL RENOVATION
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Glave Firm of Richmond, Virginia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the renovation of Peabody Hall.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES FIELD STATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Bushman Dreyfus Architects of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Environmental Sciences Field Station project in Northampton County.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR NRAO ADDITION AND RENOVATION
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that The Greenwood Partnership, Ltd., of Williamsburg, Virginia, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition and Renovation project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR HUNTON AND WILLIAMS HALL EXPANSION
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Train & Spencer Architects of Charlottesville, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Hunton and Williams Hall Expansion project at the Law School.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE NRAO ADDITION AND RENOVATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 14, 1999, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition and Renovation, are approved; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE MILLER CENTER ADDITION AND RENOVATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated May 14, 1999, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Miller Center Addition and Renovation are approved; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE MILTON AIRPORT FRAME BUILDING
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University owns a small, one-story frame building at Milton Airport located on the east side of Route 729 just south of Milton in Albemarle County; and WHEREAS, the roof collapsed during the winter of 1996-97, rendering the structure unusable; and WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure; RESOLVED that the removal of the Milton Airport Frame Building is approved by the Board of Visitors; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment C).

APPROVAL TO REMOVE MIDDLETON CABANA
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University owns a small, concrete block cabana at the Birdwood property on the south side of Route 250 west of Charlottesville in Albemarle County; and WHEREAS, the structure has not been used for several decades and constitutes an attractive nuisance; and WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure; RESOLVED that the removal of the Middleton Cabana is approved by the Board of Visitors; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment D).

APPROVAL OF ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION V
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Pavilion V be assigned to Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Snyder, effective on or about September 1, 1999, for a period to coincide with Mr. Snyders appointment as Dean of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the School of Medicine wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with E-SITE THERAPEUTICS, INC., a Delaware corporation, for investigation and research into the use of antibodies in the diagnosis, imaging, prevention, treatment and monitoring of cancer; and WHEREAS, as noted, Dr.Taylor has a conflicting equity interest exceeding 3% in E-SITE THERAPEUTICS, INC. which has been disclosed to the University as provided by '2.1-639.6 (C)(7) of the Code of Virginia and as required by University policy; and neither Dr. Taylor nor Dr. Chung is involved in the Universitys negotiation, approval, or procurement of the sponsored research contract, nor are their spouses; RESOLVED that the exemption under '2.1-639.6 (C)(7) of the Code of Virginia is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to contract with E-Site and secure funding of ongoing cancer research provided the annual disclosure statement of economic interests is filed by Dr. Taylor as required by law, the University files its required annual report with the Secretary of the Commonwealth reporting the contract and responsible managers overseeing its administration, and the chairs of both departments vigilantly oversee and monitor the utilization of University resources in implementation of any contract with E-SITE THERAPEUTICS, INC and report to the dean on at least a quarterly basis. RESOLVED FURTHER that the exemption for dual University employment of the spouses of Drs. Taylor and Chung, under '2.1-639.6(C)(2) of the Code of Virginia, is approved in order to maintain ongoing cancer research which appears to be in the public interest and to retain competent scientists familiar with the subject matter, with the understanding and on the condition that neither Dr. Chung nor Dr. Taylor evaluate, supervise or otherwise make personnel decisions concerning their spouses and that these actions will be taken independently by the chairs of their departments in strict accordance with applicable University personnel policies.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: (Mr. Crutchfield abstained from voting on this resolution). WHEREAS, the School of Medicine wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Multimedia Medical Systems, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, for testing MMS computer software for transmitting medical images over the Internet; and WHEREAS, Neal Kassell, M.D., a faculty member in the School of Medicine, and his spouse, have equity interests of 13.3% and 0.1%, respectively, in Multimedia Medical Systems, Inc., and Universitys entry into an agreement with Multimedia Medical Systems, Inc., would thereby expose them to violation of the conflicts of Interest Act unless approved by the Board as provided by '2.1-639.6(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia. RESOLVED that the conflict is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to negotiate and enter into a proposed contract for testing MMS computer software, which transmits medical images over the Internet; provided that Dr. Kassell file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Multimedia Medical Systems, annual report concerning the contract with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and department chair vigilantly oversees utilization of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

RECOMMENDATION OF COMMITTEE REPRESENTATIVE
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Ms. Sondra Stallard, Dean of Continuing Education, be recommended to the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth, for appointment to the Distance Learning Steering Committee to be established by the Governor under HB 1450.

APPROVAL OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBERS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. Thomas E. Donilon be elected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs, for a three-year term; and RESOLVED FURTHER that Mrs. Betty E. Scripps Harvey and Mr. Clayton Wilhite be reelected to the Council of the White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs, for three-year terms.

APPROVAL OF APPOINTEES TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors charged the Nominating Committee of the Board of The University of Virginia's College at Wise to prepare a slate of nominees to serve on the College's Board; and WHEREAS, The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board recommends that the persons listed below be appointed to the Board in accordance with the terms of its bylaws; RESOLVED that Mr. Bobby H. Colyer, Sr., Ms. Rhonda M. Perkins, The Honorable Ford C. Quillen, and Mr. Henry R. Winkler be appointed to the Board for a term ending June 30, 2000; that Mr. Kenneth P. Asbury, Mr. Thomas K. Henritze, Mr. Joe T. Howard, and Mr. Don R. Pippin be appointed to the Board for a term ending June 30, 2001; that Mr. Michael G. McGlothlin, Ms. Eliza S. Rigg, Mr. Joseph F. Smiddy, and Mr. William J. Sturgill be appointed to the Board for a term ending June 30, 2002; and that Mr. James M. Gott, Mr. Jerry W. Kilgore, Mr. Larry A. Munsey, and Ms. Ruby W. Rogers be appointed to Board for a term ending June 30, 2003.

APPROVAL OF THE 1999-2000 BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1999-2000 Budget for the Academic Division be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1999-2000 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1999-2000 Budget for the College at Wise be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE 1999-2000 BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the 1999-2000 Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase of 3.0 percent, be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

APPROVAL OF REVISED ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS FOR 1998 - 2006
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University's existing enrollment plan, approved by the Board of Visitors in February 1997, must be revised to reflect projected reductions in graduate enrollment in Arts and Sciences, Engineering, Education, and Law; and WHEREAS, the new Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies program is expected to enroll 325 undergraduate students through on-Grounds Continuing Education by 2006; and WHEREAS, the revised enrollment projections for 1998-2006 have been submitted to and approved by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia in April 1999; RESOLVED that, compared with the 1997 plan, the undergraduate student population stay at the same level projected for 2006; the graduate student population be decreased by 100 headcount students over the same period; the first-professional student population be decreased by 45; and on-Grounds Continuing Education students increased by 266 headcount students, resulting in a total student enrollment target of 120 more on-Grounds students than approved in 1997. The total enrollment in 2006 will be 19,307, or 1,397 more students than the 1989-90 base year. RESOLVED FURTHER that all undergraduate growth maintain the current mix of in-state and out-of-state students.

APPROVAL OF INTEGRATED HEALTHCARE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ACQUISITION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation have identified the need for an integrated healthcare information management system that will provide access to essential clinical and financial data that are accurate and timely, to clinicians, management, and staff across the healthcare delivery system; and WHEREAS, negotiations are being conducted for an agreement to install enterprise-wide core systems that will form the nucleus for an Integrated Healthcare Information Management System that includes software, hardware, implementation, and integration services; and WHEREAS, the acquisition of an integrated information system from a single vendor is anticipated to provide estimated benefits over the seven-year contract period valued at approximately $94 million while related costs over that same period are expected to be approximately $54 million; RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the General Counsel, be authorized to approve and execute an agreement to procure these enterprise-wide core systems along with the associated implementation and integration services for the University of Virginia Medical Center; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences shall report on the progress of the system development and implementation to the Health Affairs Committee at least quarterly and to the Finance Committee not less frequently than the end of each of the four phases. Such reporting shall compare progress in relation to the planned timeline, resource requirements and objectives and desired outcome of the proposed system. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment E).

APPROVAL OF BOND ISSUANCE
-------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 3.2, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the Act), the General Assembly of Virginia has authorized the Virginia College Building Authority (the Authority) to develop a pooled bond program (the Program) to purchase bonds and other debt instruments issued by public institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth of Virginia (the Institutions) to finance or refinance the construction of projects of capital improvement specifically included in a bill passed by a majority of those elected to each house of the General Assembly of Virginia (the Projects); and WHEREAS, the Authority intends to issue from time to time under the Program its Educational Facilities Revenue Bonds (Public Higher Education Financing Program) (the Bonds) to finance the purchase of bonds and other debt instruments issued by the Institutions to finance or refinance the Projects, all in the furtherance of the purposes of the Act and the Program; and WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the Board) may from time to time wish to finance or refinance Projects of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the Institution) through the Program; and WHEREAS, if the Institution wishes to finance or refinance a Project through the Program, it will be necessary for the Institution to enter into a Loan Agreement (a Loan Agreement) between the Authority and the Institution and to evidence the loan to be made by the Authority to the Institution pursuant to the Loan Agreement by issuing the Institutions promissory note (the Note) pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Authority will agree to issue its Bonds and to use certain proceeds of the Bonds to purchase the Note issued by the Institution and the Institution will agree to use the proceeds received from the Authority to finance or refinance the construction of the Project and to make payments under the Loan Agreement and the Note in sums sufficient to pay, among other administrative and arbitrage rebate payments, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest due on that portion of the Bonds issued to purchase the Note; and WHEREAS, the Institution now proposes to sell to the Authority its Note (the 1999A Note) to be issued under a Loan Agreement (the 1999A Loan Agreement) to finance or refinance all or a portion of the costs of the Biomedical Engineering and Medical Sciences building project and the Medical Office Building in Orange project (together, the 1999A Project); and WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Board the proposed forms of the 1999A Note and the 1999A Loan Agreement; and WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to approve the execution and delivery of the 1999A Loan Agreement and the execution and issuance of the 1999A Note on terms and conditions substantially in accordance with the forms presented to the Board and, similarly, to authorize officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, the 1999A Loan Agreement, the 1999A Note and any and all documents necessary to effectuate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 1999A Project through the Program with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the 1999A Note by the Authority; and WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to approve the further participation by the Institution in the Program and to authorize the execution, delivery and issuance of such other Loan Agreements and Notes on terms and conditions substantially similar to the 1999A Loan Agreement and 1999A Note and to similarly authorize certain officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, all Loan Agreements, all Notes and any and all future documents necessary to effectuate the Program with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the Notes by the Authority. RESOLVED THAT:

Section 1. The 1999A Loan Agreement and 1999A Note are approved in substantially the forms presented to the Board and the pledge of Pledged General Revenues to the payment of the 1999A Note, as provided in the 1999A Loan Agreement, is hereby authorized.

Section 2. The President of the Institution and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Institution (the Authorized Officers), or either of them, are hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute, deliver and issue, on behalf of the Board,

  (a) the 1999A Loan Agreement in substantially the form submitted to the Board with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced conclusively by the execution and delivery of the 1999A Loan Agreement,

  (b) the 1999A Note in substantially the form submitted to the Board with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced conclusively by the execution and issuance of the 1999A Note, and

  (c) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary to consummate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 1999A Project through the Program, the construction of the 1999A Project and the Institutions participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution. The Authorized Officers are directed to take such steps and deliver such certificates prior to the delivery of the 1999A Note as may be required under existing obligations of the Institution.

Section 3. The Authorized Officers, or either of them, are hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute and deliver, on behalf of the Board,

  (a) such future Loan Agreements in substantially the form of the 1999A Loan Agreement with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Loan Agreement,

  (b) such future Notes in substantially the form of the 1999A Note with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Note, and

  (c) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary in the future to consummate the Program, the construction of the Projects and the Institutions participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution in the future, it being the intent of the Board that no further action on behalf of the Board shall be necessary to empower the Authorized Officers, or either of them, to execute, deliver and issue such future Loan Agreements, future Notes and other documents as may be deemed necessary in order for the Institution to participate in the Program in the future.

Section 4. The authorizations given above as to the execution, delivery and issuance of the 1999A Loan Agreement and the 1999A Note are subject to the following parameters:

  (a) that the principal amount to be paid under the 1999A Note shall not be greater than the aggregate amount authorized for the components of the 1999A Project by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law,

  (b) that the interest rate payable under the 1999A Note shall not exceed a true or Canadian interest cost more than fifty basis points higher than the interest rate for AA rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any,

  (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under the 1999A Note shall not be in excess of twenty (20) years,

  (d) that the last principal payment date under the 1999A Note shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of the 1999A Project,

  (e) that the financing of the 1999A Project and the terms and provisions of the 1999A Loan Agreement and the 1999A Note will comply with the Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance, and

  (f) that the actual interest rates, maturities, and date of the 1999A Note shall be approved by an Authorized Officer, which approval will be evidenced by the execution of the 1999A Note. The 1999A Note shall be sold to the Authority at a price of par.

Section 5. The authorizations given above as to the execution, delivery and issuance of any future Loan Agreements and future Notes are subject to the following parameters:

  (a) that the principal amount to be paid under such Notes shall not be greater than the amount authorized for the Projects by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law,

  (b) that the interest rate payable under such Notes shall not exceed a true or Canadian interest cost more than fifty basis points higher than the interest rate for AA/ rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any,

  (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under such Notes shall not be in excess of twenty (20) years,

  (d) that the last principal payment date under such Notes shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of the Projects being financed, and

  (e) that the financing of the Projects and the terms and provisions of such Loan Agreements and Notes will comply with the Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance.

Section 6. The Board acknowledges, on behalf of the Institution, that if the Institution fails to make any payments of debt service due under any Loan Agreement or Note, including the 1999A Loan Agreement and the 1999A Note, the Program authorizes the State Comptroller to charge against the appropriations available to the Institution all future payments of debt service on that Loan Agreement and Note when due and payable and to make such payments to the Authority or its designee, so as to ensure that no future default will occur on such Loan Agreement or Note.

Section 7. The Board agrees that if the Authority determines that the Institution is an obligated person under Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any issue of Bonds, the Institution will enter into a continuing disclosure undertaking in form and substance satisfactory to the Authority and the Institution and will comply with the provisions and disclosure obligations contained therein.

Section 8. This resolution shall take effect immediately. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment F).

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE CLARK HALL RENOVATION AND ADDITION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated May 14, 1999, and prepared by Ellenzweig Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts, for the Clark Hall Renovation and Addition, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SPECIAL COLLECTIONS LIBRARY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated May 14, 1999, and prepared by Hartman-Cox of Washington, D.C., for the Special Collections Library, is approved; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE OBSERVATORY HILL DINING RENOVATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated May 14, 1999, and prepared by the MMM Design Group of Norfolk, for the Observatory Hill Dining Renovation, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE SCIENCE BUILDING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated May 14, 1999, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Science Building at The University of Virginias College at Wise, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE STUDENT CENTER AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated May 14, 1999, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Student Center at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, is approved; with the understanding that the design of the roof of the recreation wing will be reworked to include, if possible, a pitched roof; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary level of development.

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO AUDIT CHARTER
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the policy on the role of the Internal Audit Department is approved effective immediately. (See Attachment G for Audit Charter).

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO AUDIT SCHEDULE
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 1999-2000 is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE Ph.D. DEGREE IN MUSIC IN THE McINTIRE DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC IN THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.) in Music be established in the McIntire Department of Music in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President gave the Gifts and Grants report which covered the first three quarters of the Fiscal Year - July 1, 1998 - March 31, 1999. The Board voted to accept the Report.

BOARD MEETING DATES FOR 2000
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board meeting dates for 2000 are as follows: Friday and Saturday February 25 and 26, 2000 Friday and Saturday April 14 and 15, 2000 Friday and Saturday June 16 and 17, 2000 Friday and Saturday October 20 and 21, 2000

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF THE BRUGH AND HARLOW PROPERTIES
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University of Virginia wishes to purchase real estate located at 204 15th Street SW, Charlottesville, Virginia, from Robert M. Callaghan and Robert W. Brugh, Trustees of RWB Land Trust, and real estate located at 416 Monroe Lane, 416 Monroe Lane, 424 Monroe Lane and 210 15th Street SW, Charlottesville, Virginia, from Paul M. Peatross, Jr., Trustee for the Harlow family, to address future growth of the Health Sciences Center and School of Medicine space needs; and WHEREAS, in 1998 the General Assembly provided authority to acquire real property using non-general funds for teaching, research and administrative functions; RESOLVED that the acquisition of the 204 15th Street S.W. property is approved by the Board of Visitors; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to: 1) negotiate an appropriate price for the Harlow properties subject to the approval of the Chair of the Finance Committee and 2) execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned properties; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to: 1) negotiate appropriate prices for the other properties that have been identified for future acquisition when they become available, subject to the approval of the Chair of the Finance Committee; and 2) execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned properties. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment H).

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF THE NATURE CONSERVANCY PROPERTY FOR THE LONG-TERM ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH PROJECT ON THE EASTERN SHORE OF VIRGINIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University wishes to purchase real estate located in the village of Oyster, County of Northhampton, on the sea side of the Eastern Shore of Virginia, from the Nature Conservancy in support of the Environmental Sciences Department's Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) project; and WHEREAS, in 1997 the General Assembly authorized the acquisition for the LTER project; RESOLVED that the acquisition of the Nature Conservancy property, as recommended by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, be approved by the Board of Visitors; and RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned property. (See Fiscal Impact Statement for this resolution as Attachment I).

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 1999 through April 30, 1999, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the laws of this Commonwealth, specifically Section 23-76 of the Code of Virginia, invest the Board of Visitors for the University of Virginia with authority to regulate the government and discipline of students; and WHEREAS, the aforesaid state law further provides that the President of the University shall have such duties as may be prescribed by the Board, and who shall have supreme administrative direction under the authority of the Board over all of the schools, colleges, and branches of the University wherever located; and WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has promulgated Standards of Conduct governing the discipline of University students which are administered by the student Judiciary Committee pursuant to its Bylaws and Constitution; and WHEREAS, the Judiciary Committee Constitution authorizes referral of student disciplinary cases to the Vice President for Student Affairs for disposition only when a majority of the Committee members determine that more cases are pending before the Committee than it can handle effectively; and WHEREAS, the interests of the University community may on occasion require direct and prompt administrative action consistent with due process when students are charged with serious crimes which affect the University community or its operations; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby affirms the authority of the President, when necessary or advisable in his discretion, to administratively discipline, suspend and/or expel students when indicted, arrested or convicted of criminal conduct which reasonably endangers or threatens the University community or its operations. The President is authorized to promulgate implementing policy and procedure as he deems appropriate consistent with due process and in consultation with General Counsel. Should such disciplinary review be undertaken by the President, or his designee, his review shall suspend, preempt and terminate review by or proceeding before any other University disciplinary body unless otherwise authorized by the President.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONS: ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS PROMOTIONS:RESIGNATIONS:APPOINTMENTS:RE-APPOINTMENT:ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS:CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF DR. ROBERT F. SELDEN, JR.:CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF DR. ROBERT F. SELDEN, JR. CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF DR. NICKOLAS J. SOJKA:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty: Dr. Joseph C. English, III as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Donald A. Jordan, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for one year, effective January 25, 1999. Mr. George A. Kulik as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year. Mr. James G. Maxham, III as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Denise S. Young as Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period February 25, 1999 through September 30, 1999.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below: (a) Election of Chairholders Mr. Marshall Brement as Hugh S. and Winifred B. Cumming Memorial Professor of International Affairs, for three academic years, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Gary W. Gallagher as John L. Nau, III, Professor in the History of the American Civil War, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Jon D. Mikalson as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Classics, effective November 25, 1999. Mr. Dennis R. Proffitt as Cavaliers Distinguished Teaching Professor, for two years, effective June 25, 1999. Mr. Proffitt will continue as Professor of Psychology, without term. Mr. Daniel M. Wegner as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Psychology, effective November 25, 1999. Ms. Karen Van Lengen as Edward E. Elson Professor of Architecture, effective June 25, 1999. Dr. Barbara B. Wilson as Edward P. Cawley Associate Professor of Dermatology, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Wilson will continue as Associate Professor of Dermatology, without term.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted: Mr. Joseph P. Allen from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Yongde Bao from Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology to Associate Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. John S. Blanco from Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, with term, to Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Eric R. Bredo from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Mary K. Burke from Assistant Professor of Drama to Associate Professor of Drama, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Susan E. Carlson-Skalak from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Dewey G. Cornell from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Dean A. Dass from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Gregory G. Degnan from Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery to Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, for four years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. John M. Dent from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Richard I. Enelow from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Gayle R. Erwin from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Eugene F. Foley from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Edward R. Ford from Associate Professor of Architecture to Professor of Architecture, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Glenn A. Gaesser from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Benjamin M. Gaston from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for four years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Matthew J. Goodman from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Michael E. Gorman from Associate Professor of Technology, Culture, and Communication to Professor of Technology, Culture, and Communication, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Mitchell S. Green from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Frank E. Grizzard, Jr. from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. A. Ian Harrison from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Madaline B. Harrison from Associate Professor of Neurology, with term, to Associate Professor of Neurology, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Jennifer A. Harvey from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. John F. Hawley from Associate Professor of Astronomy to Professor of Astronomy, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Sharon R. Hays from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. James M. Howe from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Robert Hull from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Christopher M. Johns from Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Art, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Sara A. Kaltreider from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with term, to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Luke E. Kelly from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. J. Daniel Kinney from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Rebecca D. Kneedler from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Karl G. Koenig from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Steven M. Koenig from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Boris P. Kovatchev from Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. James M. Larner from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with term, to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Edward G. Lengel from Lecturer, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Klaus F. Ley from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Jorg Liebeherr from Assistant Professor of Computer Science to Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Maurice H. Lipper from Associate Professor of Clinical Radiology and Associate Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery to Professor of Clinical Radiology and Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Patricia L. Llewellyn from Assistant Professor of Psychology, General Faculty, to Associate Professor of Psychology, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Stuart M. Lowson from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Carol A. Manning from Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Earl J. Mark from Associate Professor of Architecture, with term, to Associate Professor of Architecture, without term, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Kirk Martini from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Nancy L. McDaniel from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Elizabeth L. McGarvey from Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Mark J. Mendelsohn from Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. John S. Minasi from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Matthew Neurock from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Spencer G. Niles from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Pamela M. Norris from Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Akemi Ohira from Assistant Professor of Studio Art to Associate Professor of Studio Art, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Stephen S. Park from Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery to Associate Professor of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Karen H. Parshall from Associate Professor of History and Mathematics to Professor of History and Mathematics, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Brooks H. Pate from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Sonia H. Pearson-White from Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Assistant Professor of Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Associate Professor of Research in Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, for two years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Shyamal Das Peddada from Associate Professor of Statistics to Professor of Statistics, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Michael Ragosta, III from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Paul F. Reynolds from Associate Professor of Computer Science to Professor of Computer Science, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Mercedes T. Richards from Associate Professor of Astronomy to Astronomy, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Randall R. Robey from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Eugene F. Rogers, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Ian J. Sarembock from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Helmy M. Siragy from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. David E. Smith from Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, General Faculty, to Professor of Environmental Sciences, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Laura B. Smolkin from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Sang H. Son from Associate Professor of Computer Science to Professor of Computer Science, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Burkhard F. Spiekermann from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Richard D. Stevenson from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, with term, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, without term, effective July 1, 1999. Mr. Douglas R. Taylor from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. William J. Thurneck from Associate Professor, General Faculty, to Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Stanley C. Trent from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Carl O. Trindle from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Peter E. Waldron from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Ms. Cynthia S. Wall from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Heather A. Warren from Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 25, 1999. Ms. Amy L. Wax from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Robert M. Weikle, II from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. Elliott N. Weiss from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective August 25, 1999. Mr. D. Mark Whittle from Associate Professor of Astronomy to Professor of Astronomy, effective August 25, 1999. Dr. Andrew M. Wolf from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Paul Yeaton from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Cynthia M. Yoshida from Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999. Dr. Jeffrey S. Young from Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine to Associate Professor of Surgery and Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1999.

The following resignations were announced: Ms. Mary K. Bednar, Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, effective March 21, 1999, to accept another position. Dr. Douglas E. DeGood, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective March 31, 1999, to accept another position. Dr. Laurie L. Fajardo, Professor of Radiology, effective February 28, 1999, to accept another position. Dr. Robert R. Heider, Associate Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective February 28, 1999, to accept another position. Ms. Lois C. Knowles, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective March 1, 1999, for personal reasons. Ms. Polley A. McClure, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective April 30, 1999, to accept another position. Mr. David J. Verardo, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective March 1, 1999, to accept another position. Mr. John A. Wert, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective January 31, 1999, to accept another position.

The following appointments were announced: Mr. John E. Portmann as Executive Assistant to the Vice President and Provost, for three years, effective March 10, 1999. Ms. H. Elizabeth Rue as Dean of Students, for five years, effective July 25, 1999. Ms. Karen Van Lengen as Dean of the School of Architecture, for five years, effective June 25, 1999.

The following re-appointment was announced: Ms. Roberta W. Miksad as Special Assistant to the Vice President for Research and Public Service, for the period December 1, 1998 through May 31, 1999.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus: Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Professor of Medical Education, effective June 30, 1999.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 30, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1999, be changed to read as follows: Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1999. Dr. Selden has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1962.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Election of Associate Professor Emeritus of Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 30, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1999, be changed to read as follows: Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1999.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the retirement of Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Professor of Medical Education, effective May 30, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 27, 1999, be changed to read as follows: Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Professor of Medical Education, effective June 30, 1999. Dr. Sojka has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1966.
