---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1999'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:40 a.m., on Friday, March 26, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Champ Clark, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Terence P. Ross, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Henry L. Valentine, II, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, Joseph E. Wolfe, and J. Michael Allen. John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Ms. Polley Ann McClure, Gene D. Block, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, ON JANUARY 29-30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked for a motion approving the Minutes, as corrected, of the January 29-30 meeting of the Board. The motion was offered and the Minutes approved.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector asked the Student Member-Elect, Mr. Robert G. Schoenvogel, to stand and he called on Mr. Allen to introduce him.

The Board's annual Retreat, the Rector noted, will be held on Saturday, July 23rd at Upper Brandon in Prince George County. The Health Affairs Committee will meet at Upper Brandon the day before.

At the Rector's request, Mrs. Holland reported on recent activities of the State Council for Higher Education in Virginia. She told the Board about the State Councils annual conference for Boards of Visitors, which is to be held this year on April 30th in Richmond.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President gave his customary report. He noted that a number of prominent faculty, recruited during President Shannons tenure, are retiring this year. He then commented on Dr. Detmers retirement and new appointment at Cambridge University, though he will continue his association with the University as a lecturer and consultant. Dr. Detmer thanked the President for his remarks.

The President next reported on Ms. McClure's forthcoming departure to take an appointment at Cornell University. He noted the innovative work Ms. McClure has done at the University and thanked her for it.

Finally, the President noted Mr. Canevari's forthcoming retirement as Dean of Students. He thanked him for his devoted and distinguished service.

The President reported on the work of the various planning commissions and said that progress reports probably will be given to the Board at its May meeting.

The President discussed briefly the idea of doing financial impact statements on certain proposals brought to the Board. This will entail adjustments both in the Boards meeting schedules and in the ways material will be analyzed.

On motion, the Board adjourned at 9:00 a.m.

The Board of Visitors resumed its meeting in Open Session as a full Board at 2:10 p.m.; Timothy B. Robertson and James C. Wheat, III, were present in addition to the Members present at the morning meeting.

After considering the following motions to go into Executive Session, the Board went into Executive Session at 2:15 p.m.:

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss Endowment Fund investment strategies and fund managers, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) of the Code of Virginia; and to discuss proprietary, business related information pertaining to the Medical Center and its marketing strategies and activities with its joint ventures, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) and (24) which if made public initially, would adversely affect the financial interest of the University.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the condition, and possible acquisition and use of real property by Clinch Valley College, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (3) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for discussion of proprietary, business related information pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center and its departments; and where specific University personnel might be affected by such evaluation, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1), (6), and (24) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Special Committee to Review the Processes and Operations of the University of Virginia Medical Center go into Executive Session for discussion with Counsel regarding probable litigation, and other specific matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia; and for the evaluation of the performance of departments and programs where personnel decisions regarding individual officers and employees might be affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Special Committee of the Board go into Executive Session to discuss threatened litigation and admission policies with General Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning the status of pending litigation and other specific legal matters with General Counsel involving the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Section 2.37 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, consider an item for the Agenda proposed after the publication of the Regular Docket; and that the Board convene in closed session with the General Counsel to evaluate contract negotiations with the Qatar Foundation, as permitted by Section 2.1-344(A)(7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to be advised on pending contract discussions with a company proposing funding of faculty research and business development where no public announcement has been made of the companys proposed interest, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(5), (6), and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed from Executive Session at 4:00 p.m., and adjourned to the Dome Room of the Rotunda to continue in Open Session.

In Open Session, the Board approved resolutions creating seven professorships, as well as a resolution changing the name of an existing professorship. The resolutions are as follows:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHARLES S. ROBB PROFESSORSHIP IN EDUCATION
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Bahman Batmanghelidj of Fairfax County is an admirer of Thomas Jefferson and his works, including Jefferson's ideas on education; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batmanghelidj also has admired the contributions made by the Honorable Charles S. Robb, both as Governor of Virginia and as a United States Senator, toward the advancement of public education in the Commonwealth; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batmanghelidj has made a generous contribution to the University of Virginia for the establishment of a Professorship in Education to be named for Senator Robb;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Mr. Batmanghelidj for his support and generosity and establishes the Charles S. Robb Professorship in the Curry School of Education.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOE GIECK PROFESSORSHIP IN SPORTS MEDICINE
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Joe Howard Gieck, a native of Oklahoma, has been Head Athletics Trainer at the University of Virginia since 1962; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Gieck is a Professor of Education in the Curry School of Education, as well as a Professor in the Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation in the Health Sciences Center and an advisor for both the undergraduate and doctoral sports medicine programs; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Gieck has both a national and a local reputation in his field to the extent that family, friends and former students have contributed funds to establish a professorship in his honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends Mr. Gieck for his years of service to the University, establishes the Joe Gieck Professorship in Sports Medicine in the Curry School of Education, and thanks the family, friends and former students of Mr. Gieck who have made the Professorship possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ANNE SHIRLEY CARTER OLSSON PROFESSORSHIP IN THE DIVISION OF TECHNOLOGY, CULTURE, AND COMMUNICATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Anne Shirley Carter Olsson of West Point, a native of Richmond, a physician, and wife of Sture G. Olsson, has, with her husband, been a generous and wise supporter of the School of Engineering and Applied Science; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Olsson has a particular interest in ethical issues associated with technological and industrial growth and competition; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Olsson has made a generous gift to the School of Engineering to establish a professorship in honor of Dr. Olsson;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Anne Shirley Carter Olsson Professorship in the Division of Technology, Culture, and Communication of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, commends Dr. Olsson for the example she has set in her life and thanks her and Mr. Olsson for their generosity and support of the School of Engineering.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE L.A. LACY DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Linwood A. Lacy matriculated in the School of Engineering and Applied Science in 1941, but left to fight in the Second World War; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lacy was for many years a Charlottesville businessman, the owner of L.A. Lacy Plumbing and Heating Contractors; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lacy died in 1994; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Lacy's son, Linwood A. Lacy, Jr., an alumnus of the School of Engineering and of the Darden School, has made a generous gift to establish a professorship in the School of Engineering in memory of his father;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the L.A. Lacy Distinguished Professorship in Engineering and thanks Mr. Linwood A. Lacy, Jr. for his generosity and support.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER PROFESSORSHIP IN NURSING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the School of Nursing and the University of Virginia Medical Center opened in 1901 and have enjoyed a close relationship ever since; and

WHEREAS, the School has trained nurses who have provided, over the years, excellent nursing care to patients in the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center wishes to celebrate both this relationship and the excellence of the School of Nursing by creating a professorship in the School;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the University of Virginia Medical Center Professorship in Nursing, in the School of Nursing, and thanks the Medical Center for its generosity which has made this chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WARREN G. STAMP PROFESSORSHIP IN ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Dr. Warren G. Stamp was Chair of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in the School of Medicine from 1968 to 1993; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Stamp is an outstanding physician and teacher under whose leadership the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery has become one of the most distinguished orthopaedic programs in the country; and

WHEREAS, friends, colleagues, former students and patients and family of Dr. Stamp have joined together to contribute funds to establish a professorship in Dr. Stamp's honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Warren G. Stamp Professorship in Orthopaedic Surgery, to be held in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at the School of Medicine, thanks the many benefactors who have made this possible and expresses its gratitude for Dr. Stamp's years of service and contributions to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NABI PROFESSORSHIP IN TRANSPLANT PHARMACOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Nabi, the North American Biologic Institute, has been a generous supporter of research in the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Nabi has provided funds for a professorship in transplant pharmacology at the School of Medicine;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Nabi Professorship in Transplant Pharmacology in the Department of Surgery at the School of Medicine, and thanks Nabi for its generosity and support.

RENAMING OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ANESTHESIOLOGY AS THE ROBERT M. EPSTEIN PROFESSORSHIP IN ANESTHESIOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors established the Distinguished Professorship in Anesthesiology in 1982; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Robert M. Epstein served as Chair of the Department of Anethesiology from 1972 to 1996 and began his retirement from the faculty in 1997; and

WHEREAS, friends, family, colleagues and former residents in Anesthesiology have contributed to the Professorship with the understanding that it would be renamed in Dr. Epstein's honor on his retirement;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the Distinguished Professorship in Anesthesiology the Robert M. Epstein Professorship in Anesthesiology, in the Department of Anesthesiology of the School of Medicine, thanks the many donors who have made this possible, congratulates Dr. Epstein on his retirement and expresses its gratitude for his years of distinguished service to the University.

On motion, the Board adjourned at 4:35 p.m.

The Board of Visitors resumed its meeting in Executive Session at 11:30 a.m., Saturday, March 27, 1999, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members were present save Mr. Goodwin.

The Executive Session ended at 1:40 p.m. and the meeting was resumed in Open Session at 1:50 p.m.; Messrs. Goodwin, Robertson and Small were absent.

The President told the Board about the Virginia Festival of the Book, currently underway, and invited Members to attend a reception for Festival participants that evening at Carr's Hill. He also told the Board that the directors of Blandy Farm, which is administered by the University as the State Arboretum, asked him to extend an invitation to the Board to visit the Farm in Clarke County.

The Board then approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 1999-2000 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1999. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

Housing Rates, page 1

Housing Rates, page 2

Housing Rates, page 3

APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS FOR THE NRAO BUILDING ADDITION AND THE DARDEN BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations (the "Regulations") governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its bonds; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the Regulations, the University hereby declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

The University reasonably expects to reimburse expenditures incurred for the construction of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition and the construction of the Darden School Expansion Project with proceeds from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds ("bonds") to be issued by the University through the Treasury board;

This resolution is a declaration of official intent under Section l.l50-2 of the Regulations;

The maximum principal amount of bonds expected to be issued for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures relating to the construction of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition is $7.4 million and the construction of the Darden School Expansion Project is $40.0 million.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1999; and

Tuition, page 1

Tuition, page 2

Tuition, page 3

Required Fees

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 1999-2000 Session as follows:

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SESSION FEE RATES
-------------------------------------

Newcomb Hall Operating

$17

$1

5.9%

$18

Student Health

$87

$4

4.6%

$91

University Transit

$15

$1

6.7%

$16

Technology

$5

$0

0.0%

$5

Intramurals

$8

$8

100.0%

$16

Classroom Renewal

$0

$6

N/A

$6

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL

$132

$20

15.2%

$152

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the fall session of 1999:

Newcomb Hall Operating$17$15.9%$18Student Health$87$44.6%$91University Transit$15$16.7%$16Technology$5$00.0%$5Intramurals$8$8100.0%$16Classroom Renewal$0$6N/A$6SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL$132$2015.2%$152

Special Session Fees

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to The University of Virginia's College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1999:

Tuition and Required Fees

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia's College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.2:1.B of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1999-2000 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1999-2000 session:

Contract Rates for Dining

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE EAST PRECINCT CHILLER PLANT
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated March 26, 1999, and prepared by RMF Engineering of Baltimore, Maryland, for the East Precinct Chiller Plant, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE NUCLEAR MAGNETIC RESONANCE UNITS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated March 26, 1999, and prepared by RTKL of Baltimore, Maryland, for the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Units at the MR-4 Building, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE OBSERVATORY HILL DINING RENOVATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated March 26, 1999, and prepared by the MMM Design Group of Norfolk, for the Observatory Hill Dining Renovation, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SCIENCE BUILDING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated March 26, 1999, and prepared by VMDO Architects of Charlottesville, for the Science Building at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

APPROVAL OF SIX YEAR CAPITAL OUTLAY PLAN
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise for the 2000-2006 period is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to make necessary revisions to the plan prior to its submission to the state, provided the revisions do not alter in any substantive way the overall capital program as approved.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President noted that the Report was current as of January 31st. The Report was accepted.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. JOSEPH LEE VAUGHAN
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Joseph Lee Vaughan, a native of Lynchburg, matriculated in the College in 1923, took a B.A. in 1926, the M.A. a year later and the Ph.D. in 1940; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Vaughan joined the faculty in 1927 as an instructor in English in the College of Arts &Sciences and in 1936 became an assistant professor and the head of the newly organized Division of English in the School of Engineering, an association he maintained until he retired from the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Vaughan continued in his career, becoming a full professor in 1945, serving as the first Provost of the University from 1956 to 1960 and Chancellor for the Community Colleges administered by the University from 1960 to 1966 and, upon his retirement in 1970, Professor Emeritus; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Vaughan served numerous boards and commissions, as a member and as a consultant, in Charlottesville and elsewhere; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Vaughan was multi-faceted: a watercolorist, a raconteur, a valued advisor in a number of areas, but above all a superb teacher and inspiration not only to countless students but to faculty colleagues; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Vaughan died in Charlottesville on January 19, 1999;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors notes with profound regret the passing of Joseph Lee Vaughan, expresses gratitude for his years of devoted and extraordinary service to the University of Virginia, and extends condolences to his family.

AMENDMENT TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 1998
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the name of Clinch Valley College has been changed to the University of Virginia's College at Wise and legislation to that effect has been introduced in the General Assembly of Virginia;

RESOLVED that pending final passage of the legislation and approval by the Governor, the name of the Clinch Valley College Committee of the Board of Visitors be changed to the Committee on the University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the following changes be made on or after July 1, 1999 to 1998 edition of Manual Board Visitors:

Table of Contents -

3.28: Change Clinch Valley College Committee to Committee on the University of Virginia's College at Wise.

Page 8 -

Section 2.4, 24: Change chief local administrative officer of Clinch Valley College to chief local administrative officer of the University of Virginia's College at Wise.

Page 10 -

Section 3.2: Change the Clinch Valley College Committee to the Committee on the University of Virginia's College at Wise.

Page 14 -

Section 3.28: The whole Section should be changed to read The Committee on the University of Virginia's College at Wise - The Committee on the University of Virginia's College at Wise is charged with maintaining liaison between the Board of Visitors and the Chancellor of the University of Virginia's College at Wise. The Committee will work to assist the Chancellor in carrying out the Chancellors duties and to further the advancement of the University of Virginia's College at Wise.

Page 18 -

Section 4.2, 4: Change the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College to the Chancellor of the University of Virginia's College at Wise.

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------

At the request of the Rector, Mr. Sandridge reported on a resolution adopted by the Executive Committee at its meeting on February 25th.

CHANGE ORDER APPROVALS

WHEREAS, the December 16, 1998 delegation letter from Governor Gilmore allows the Board to further delegate approval of construction and architectural and engineering contract change orders to any one or more Board members, as determined by the Board; and

WHEREAS, the December 16, 1998 delegation letter from Governor Gilmore allows the Board to authorize an officer of the University to act on its behalf for purposes of signing documents evidencing the exercise of its approval authority;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors has selected Albert H. Small, Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, and in his absence James C. Wheat, III to approve on its behalf construction and architectural and engineering change orders; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors authorizes the Chief Facilities Officer to act on its behalf for purposes of signing documents evidencing the exercise of its approval authority.

Committee Chairs then proposed resolutions based on discussions that had taken place in Executive Session during the meetings of their respective committees. The resolutions were approved by the Board.

APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF THE GARDNER PROPERTY FOR THE ATHLETIC COMPLEX AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia's College at Wise wishes to purchase real estate located at 408 East Vanover Avenue, Wise, Virginia, from Jeff and Lisa Gardner for use in support of the Athletics Complex project; and

WHEREAS, in 1998, the General Assembly authorized the acquisition of the aforementioned property as part of the Athletics Complex project;

RESOLVED that the acquisition of the aforementioned property is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is authorized to: 1) negotiate an appropriate price subject to the approval of the Chair of the Finance Committee and 2) execute any and all contracts or documents pertaining to the acquisition of the aforementioned properties.

AUTHORIZATION TO ENGAGE IN INITIATIVES TO ADVANCE BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University has substantial experience and research strength in the biomedical sciences; and

WHEREAS, the Board intends to support strategic initiatives and institutes that advance work in this field;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the approval of the Rector and the Chair of the Finance Committee, is authorized to enter into collaborative agreements for research and development in the biomedical sciences that will benefit the Commonwealth and/or regions of the Commonwealth.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period January 1, 1999 through February 28, 1999, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS
-------------------------

ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

Mr. Alan B. Diekman as Assistant Professor of Research in Cell Biology, for two years, effective January 25, 1999.

Ms. Francesca Fiorani as Assistant Professor of Art, for four academic years, effective August 25, 1999.

Mr. Shawn D. Gale as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective January 18, 1999.

Mr. Robert F. Haggard as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 25, 1999.

Dr. Wael N. Jarjour as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective December 22, 1998.

Ms. Bonnie M. Jerome-D'Emilia as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one semester, effective January 10, 1999.

Dr. David A. Kaufman as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for three years, effective January 18, 1999.

Dr. Dean H. Kedes as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1999 .

Dr. Alexander V. Kirichenko as Assistant Professor of Research in Radiation Oncology, for the period November 25, 1998 through April 15, 1999.

Ms. Jenny V. Lovell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective January 10, 1999.

Ms. Julia D. Mahoney as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective January 10, 1999.

Ms. Shannon K. Mitchell as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for the period January 10, 1999 through May 24, 1999.

Dr. Mohan Nadkarni as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1999.

Ms. Wendy M. Novicoff as Assistant Professor of Research in Health Evaluation Sciences, for three years, effective January 1, 1999.

Ms. Christine S. Patrick as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 25, 1999.

Ms. Margo R. Roberts as Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1999.

Mr. David C. Shreve as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective December 25, 1998.

Ms. Eleanor A. Sparagana as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 18, 1999.

Ms. Joan M. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Research in Microbiology, for one year, effective January 1, 1999.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholders

Dr. E. Clarke Haley, Jr. as Alumni Professor of Neurology, effective November 25, 1998.

Dr. Bradley M. Rodgers as Maurice L. LeBauer Professor of Surgery, effective November 25, 1998.

Dr. William M. Scheld as Wyeth-Ayerst Professor of Infectious Diseases, effective November 25, 1998.

Dr. John B. Schorling as Harry T. Peters, Sr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 25, 1999.

Dr. William D. Spotnitz as Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery, effective January 25, 1999.

Dr. Dan Theodorescu as Paul Mellon Associate Professor of Urology, effective November 25, 1998 through June 30, 2001.

Dr. Scott R. Vandenberg as John T. and Louise Nerancy Professor of Neurosciences, effective August 25, 1998.

(b) Change of Title of Chairholders

Mr. William B. Quandt as Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 25, 1998.

(c) Retirements of Chairholders

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Jay L. Chronister, Virgil S. Ward Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1999. Mr. Chronister has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

Ms. Martha A. Derthick, Julia Allen Cooper Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1999. Ms. Derthick has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1983.

Dr. Don E. Detmer, University Professor of Health Policy and Louise Nerancy Professor of Health Sciences Policy and Professor of Surgery, effective April 1, 1999. Dr. Detmer has been a member of the faculty since December 15, 1987.

Dr. Robert E. Fechner, William Stamps Royster Professor of Medical Science for Basic Cancer Research and Professor of Pathology and Professor of Otolaryngology, effective June 30, 1999. Dr. Fechner has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1978.

Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Alice Griffin Professor of English Literature, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Kirsch has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.

Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Langbaum has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1960.

Mr. Jacob C. Levenson, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Levenson has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1967.

Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Meiburg has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1964.

Mr. William Lee Miller, Commonwealth Professor and Thomas C. Sorensen Professor of Political and Social Thought, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Miller has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1982.

Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Robert Hill Carter Professor of Marketing in the School of Commerce, effective January 9, 1999. Mr. Morin has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.

Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, Claude A. Jessup Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1998. Dr. Nolan has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1968.

Mr. William Rotch, Johnson &Higgins Professor of Business Administration, effective November 24, 1999. Mr. Rotch has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1959.

Dr. Paul B. Underwood, Jr., W. Norman Thornton, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective August 13, 1999. Dr. Underwood has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1979.

Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Edward P. Cawley Professor of Dermatology and Dermatology, effective June 30, 1999. Weary has been a member the faculty since July 1, 1961.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED

RESIGNATIONS

The following resignations were announced:

Dr. John T. Ashley, Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective January 1, 1999, to accept another position.

Dr. Melinda L. Ferguson, Assistant Professor of Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective November 25, 1998, for personal reasons.

Mr. Aubhik Khan, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective January 9, 1999, to accept another position.

Dr. Victor C. Lee, Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective January 24, 1999, to accept another position.

Dr. David Strasburg, Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, effective January 3, 1999, to accept another position.

RETIREMENTS

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective February 24, 1999. Mr. Berkeley has been a member of the faculty since August 15, 1960.

Mr. Robert L. Canady, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1999. Mr. Canady has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.

Mr. Robert T. Canevari, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1999. Mr. Canevari has been a member of the faculty since May 1, 1964.

Mr. J. Christopher Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1999. Crocker has been a member the faculty since September 1, 1972.

Ms. Ann D. Dunn, Associate Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective January 24, 1999. Ms. Dunn has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1981.

Mr. Raymond M. Haas, University Professor and Professor of Commerce, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Haas has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1982.

Mr. Martin J. Havran, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1999. Havran has been a member the faculty since September 1, 1968.

Ms. Cornelia A. Kelley, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective May 7, 1999. Ms. Kelley has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1966.

Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Professor of English, effective January 9, 1999. Mr. Kellogg has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1957.

Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr., Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Kolb has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966.

Dr. Richard W. Lindsay, Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of Family Medicine, effective February 1, 1999. Dr. Lindsay has been a member of the faculty since May 15, 1966.

Mr. Donald G. Loach, Associate Professor of Music, effective August 24, 1998. Mr. Loach has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.

Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Professor of Philosophy, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Marshall has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

Mr. Bernard D. Mayes, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Mayes has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1984.

Mr. Woodford McClellan, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. McClellan has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965.

Mr. Bruce W. Nelson, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Nelson has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1974.

Mr. James L. Riopel, Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Riopel has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1960.

Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective January 9, 1999. Mr. Scott has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1956.

Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 30, 1999. Dr. Selden has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1962.

Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1999. Mr. Shoup has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1963.

Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Professor of Medical Education, effective May 30, 1999. Dr. Sojka has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1966.

Mr. Earl A. Thornton, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 24, 1999. Thornton has been a member the faculty since September 1, 1989.

Dr. Karl K. Wallace, Jr., Professor of Clinical Radiology, effective June 30, 1999. Dr. Wallace has been a member of the faculty since May 1, 1991.

Dr. Gaylord S. Williams, Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective June 30, 1999. Dr. Williams has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1969.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

Mr. Robert L. Canady, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1999.

Mr. Jay L. Chronister, Virgil S. Ward Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1999.

Mr. J. Christopher Crocker, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 24, 1999.

Ms. Martha A. Derthick, Julia Allen Cooper Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1999.

Dr. Don E. Detmer, University Professor of Health Policy and Louise Nerancy Professor of Health Sciences Policy and Professor of Surgery, effective April 1, 1999.

Dr. Robert E. Fechner, William Stamps Royster Professor of Medical Science for Basic Cancer Research and Professor of Pathology and Professor of Otolaryngology, effective June 30, 1999.

Mr. Raymond M. Haas, University Professor and Professor of Commerce, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Martin J. Havran, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Professor of English, effective January 9, 1999.

Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Alice Griffin Professor of English Literature, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr., Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Jacob C. Levenson, Edgar Allen Poe Professor of English, effective May 24, 1999.

Dr. Richard W. Lindsay, Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of Family Medicine, effective February 1, 1999.

Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Professor of Philosophy, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Woodford McClellan, Professor of History, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. William Lee Miller, Commonwealth Professor and Thomas C. Sorensen Professor of Political and Social Thought, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Robert Hill Carter Professor of Marketing in the School of Commerce, effective January 9, 1999.

Mr. Bruce W. Nelson, Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. James L. Riopel, Professor of Biology, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. William Rotch, Johnson &Higgins Professor of Business Administration, effective November 24, 1999.

Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective January 9, 1999.

Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 24, 1999.

Mr. Earl A. Thornton, Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, effective May 24, 1999.

Dr. Paul B. Underwood, Jr., W. Norman Thornton, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective August 13, 1999.

Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Edward P. Cawley Professor of Dermatology and Professor of Dermatology, effective June 30, 1999.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

Ms. Judith Bancroft, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective December 31, 1998.

Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective February 24, 1999.

Mr. Robert T. Canevari, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1999.

Ms. Ann D. Dunn, Associate Professor of Research in Internal Medicine, effective January 24, 1999.

Mr. Donald G. Loach, Associate Professor of Music, effective August 28, 1998.

Dr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective May 30, 1999.

Dr. Gaylord S. Williams, Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective June 30, 1999.

DEATHS

The following deaths were announced:

Mr. James E. Deese, Hugh Scott Hamilton Professor Emeritus of Psychology, died February 15, 1999. Mr. Deese was a member of the faculty from September 1, 1972, until his retirement, effective May 31, 1990.

Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Professor Emeritus of Humanities, died January 19, 1999. Mr. Vaughan was a member of the faculty from 1932, until his retirement, effective May 31, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENT

The following re-appointment was announced:

Mr. Richard A. Kovatch as Assistant Vice President for Business Operations, for three years, effective January 1, 1999.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD H. DRAYTON

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Richard H. Drayton, Assistant Professor of History, effective September 25, 1998, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of January 30, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

Mr. Richard H. Drayton as Associate Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 25, 1998.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. GEORGE A. ZITNAY

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. George A. Zitnay, Professor of Research in Neurological Surgery, in the Department of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective March 2, 1998, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 30, 1998, be changed to read as follows:

Mr. George A. Zitnay, Professor of Research in the Virginia Neurological Institute, for three years, effective March 2, 1998.

CHANGE IN SALARY ACTION DELETED

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

RETIREMENTS

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Roy A. Ball, Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1999. Mr. Ball has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1970.

Mr. Zouqul H. Chowdhury, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective January 31, 1999. Mr. Chowdhury has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1971.

Mr. Ronald H. Heise, Associate Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1999. Mr. Heise has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

Mr. Roy A. Ball, Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1999.

ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

Mr. Zouqul H. Chowhury, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective January 31, 1999.

Mr. Ronald H. Heise, Associate Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1999.

Reacting to a suggestion by Mr. Warthen that the Board meet more often, several Members said they were opposed to the idea; after some discussion, in which Dr. Caravati and others suggested that the problem was one of not enough unstructured time for discussion at existing meetings, it was decided to discuss this at the next Board Retreat. Mr. Warthen also suggested that the Board meet at Monticello; the Rector said he would take this up with the authorities at Monticello.

Finally, the Rector and other Members thanked Mr. Allen, the outgoing Student Member, for his valuable service to the Board and to the University.
