---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2000'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 16, 2000

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MEMORANDUM
----------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

John P. Ackerly, III, Rector

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

Timothy B. Robertson

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Terence P. Ross

Charles L. Glazer

Elizabeth A. Twohy

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

Walter F. Walker

T. Keister Greer

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

James C. Wheat, III

Stephen S. Phelan, Jr.

Joseph E. Wolfe

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the meeting of June 16-17, 2000

TO:The Board of Visitors:John P. Ackerly, III, RectorThomas J. Bliley, Jr.Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.Timothy B. RobertsonWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr.Terence P. RossCharles L. GlazerElizabeth A. TwohyWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.Walter F. WalkerT. Keister GreerBenjamin P.A. WarthenElsie Goodwyn HollandJames C. Wheat, IIIStephen S. Phelan, Jr.Joseph E. WolfeFROM:Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.SUBJECT:Correction to the Minutes of the meeting of June 16-17, 2000

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of June 16-17, 2000, should be corrected as follows:

On the first page (page 6068 of the Annotated Minutes and page 5828 of the Public Minutes), the last paragraph before the Resolution should be changed to read as follows:

"As is customary at the Annual Meeting, the Rector confirmed appointments of Members to committees, the appointments having been made at the April meeting. As is also customary at the Annual Meeting, it was moved that the Executive Committee be re-elected, with Ms. Twohy nominated vice Mr. Clark, who was not reappointed to the Board by the Governor. The Board approved the nomination of Ms. Twohy and the re-election of the Committee."

The Resolution should be changed to read:

"RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is re-elected with Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy to take the place of Mr. Champ Clark."

On the last page of the Minutes, just above the notice of adjournment (page 6112 of the Annotated Minutes and page 5870 of the Public Minutes), the following should be added:

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) on May 31, 2000. They do not require action by the full Board of Visitors, and are included here as a matter of record:

RESOLVED by the Board of the University of Virginia's Investment Management Company that the investment of 25 million Euro with BC Partners, LP, is approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of the University of Virginia's Investment Management Company that the investment of $5.65 million with Crosspoint LS 2000 is approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of the University of Virginia's Investment Management Company that the investment of $5 million with Constitution Research & Management is approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of the University of Virginia's Investment Management Company that the investment of $10 million with BPI International is approved.

RESOLVED by the Board of the University of Virginia's Investment Management Company that on any position over $5 million, UVIMCO staff should talk to the UVIMCO Board about hedging.

AGG:jb Copies to: President John T. Casteen, III Vice President Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 16-17, 2000
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Election of the Executive Committee

5828

Establishment of the Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Nursing

5831

Establishment of the Robert J. Roberts Professorship in Pediatrics

5831

Naming of the New Residence Hall on Alderman Road in Honor of Mr. T. Braxton Woody

5832

Resolution Congratulating Joseph E. Wolfe

5833

Blue Ribbon Commission Resolution

5833

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2000-2001

5834

Approval of the Appointment of a Public Member to the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company

5835

Approval of the Blue Ridge Hospital Property Transfer

5835

Adoption of the Return of Title IV Funds Schedule and Revision of the Policy on Refund of Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges

5836

Conflict of Interest Exemption

5837

Approval of Architect Selection for the Campbell Hall Addition Project

5838

Approval of Architect Selection for the Hospital Expansion Project

5838

Approval of Architect Selection for the Medical Research Building #6 Project

5839

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the Campbell Hall Addition Project

5839

PAGE

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for the Medical Research Building #6 Project

5839

Approval to Remove Vyssotsky Cottage Garage

5840

Approval to Remove the Faulkner Carriage House Garage

5840

Approval of the 2000-2001 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

5841

Approval of the 2000-2001 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise

5842

Approval of the 2000-2001 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

5842

Authorization to Increase the Fiscal Year 1999-2000 Endowment Income Distribution

5842

Approval of Bond Issuance

5843

Approval of the Creation of a College Foundation

5848

Approval of the Audit Schedule

5849

Approval of Preliminary Design for the Monroe Lane Student Residence Project

5849

Approval of VDOT Agreement, Emmet Street Bridge

5849

Approval of Allocation from the Fiscal Year 2000 Operating Margin of the Medical Center

5850

Approval of Revisions to the Board's Bylaws

5850

Appointments to the University of Virginia's College at Wise Board

5851

Memorial Resolution for Belva T. Dunn Jones

5851

PAGE

Elections and Re-elections to the Miller Center Governing Council

5852

Approval of Property Purchase

5852

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

5852

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

5853

Actions Relating to Chairholders

5854

Promotions

5855

Resignations

5865

Re-appointments

5866

Deaths

5867

Change in the Appointment of Ms. Sally N. Barber

5867

Change in the Election of Associate Professor Emeritus of Mr. J. David Deck

5867

Change in the Election of Mr. Charles R. Marsh

5868

Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situation

5868

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Resignation

5869

Appointment

5869

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 16-17, 2000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:30 a.m., Friday, June 16, 2000, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Stephen S. Phelan, Jr., were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Robert W. Cantrell, M.D., Peter W. Low, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Gene D. Block, Terry Holland, L. Jay Lemons, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Minutes of the Board meeting of April 14-15, previously distributed, were approved.

As is customary at the Annual Meeting, the Rector confirmed appointments of Members to committees, the appointments having been made at the April meeting. The Rector also nominated Ms. Twohy to the Executive Committee, vice Mr. Clark who was not reappointed to the Board by the Governor. The Board approved the nomination.

RESOLVED that Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy is elected to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors.

The Rector reminded Members of the Board Retreat, which is scheduled for July 14 and 15, at Upper Brandon in Prince George County, and the meeting of the Health Affairs Committee to take place in his offices in Richmond on July 14th before the Retreat. He also reminded Members of the President's Retreat, to be held in Charlottesville on November 17th.

The President gave his customary report:

The first two winners of the University Seminars Sabbatical Fellowships have been named — Farzaneh Milani, Associate Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Cultures and of Women's Studies, has won the Thomas I. Storrs Fellowship, and Sarah Farrell, Assistant Professor of Nursing, has won the Dennis J. Shaughnessy Fellowship.

Professors Anita Jones and Michael Thorner have been elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, which brings to 26 the total of faculty fellows in the Academy from the University.

Lori Graham, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, has been given a Presidential Early Career Award, which is the highest honor for young scientists and engineers in the country.

Gifts to the University since July 1, 1999, and through April 30th of this year come to $171 million, an increase of 59.2% over the previous year. The Campaign total on April 30th was $1.131 billion. Since April 30, several significant gifts have been received: U. Bertram Ellis, Jr. and his wife, Deborah Hicks Ellis, have pledged $5 million to the Darden Foundation and $5 million to the College of Arts and Sciences. The Olsson Memorial Foundation has pledged $1 million to the Engineering School, the Pew Charitable Trust $530,000 to the Law School Foundation, and the Trust of Roy R. Charles $500,000 to the School of Nursing. Mr. James W. Todd has pledged $500,000 to the Athletics Department and an anonymous donor has given $2 million to the College of Arts and Sciences. The Report was accepted by the Board.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 8:45 a.m.

The Board of Visitors resumed its meeting as a full Board, in Open Session, at 2:08 p.m. All Members were present save Mrs. Holland and Mr. Robertson.

The Board adopted the following motions to enable it to meet in Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel on the present disposition of pending litigation and further litigation strategy, and to discuss with Counsel a copyright matter, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to review the performance and present and future assignments of senior University administrators, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss with Counsel and consider the status and terms of a proposed gift of property to the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board went into Executive Session at 2:10 p.m., resumed in Open Session at 4:00 p.m., and recessed to continue its meeting in the Dome Room of the Rotunda.

The Board resumed its meeting at 4:10 p.m.; all Members were present save Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Goodwin, Robertson, Ross and Walker. After adopting resolutions to create two professorships and name a dormitory, and to hear a report from the President on the naming of the Neuroradiology Suites in memory of Dr. Wayne S. Cail, the Board, on motion, adjourned at 4:30 p.m.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTENNIAL DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN NURSING
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, an anonymous donor has made a very generous gift to establish a professorship in the School of Nursing, the largest individual donation made to the School; and

WHEREAS, the School of Nursing will celebrate the centennial of its founding in 2001;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors expresses its gratitude for the generosity of the donor and establishes The Centennial Distinguished Professorship in Nursing, to be held in the School of Nursing.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT J. ROBERTS PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRICS
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Dr. Robert J. Roberts was Chair of the Department of Pediatrics and Director of the Children's Medical Center from 1987 until his death in 1997; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Roberts was a superb physician, teacher and researcher; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Roberts worked to extend and improve patient care programs for children in Virginia and expanded the services of the Children's Medical Center and the Department of Pediatrics;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Robert J. Roberts Professorship in Pediatrics, to be held in the Department of Pediatrics of the School of Medicine, and in so doing pays tribute to the contributions and devoted service of Dr. Roberts to his patients, his students and the University of Virginia.

NAMING OF THE NEW RESIDENCE HALL ON ALDERMAN ROAD IN HONOR OF MR. T. BRAXTON WOODY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Thaddeus Braxton Woody, a native of Petersburg and an alumnus of the University of Virginia, joined the faculty in 1928 as Assistant Professor of Romance Languages; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Woody was recognized in numerous ways both for his superb teaching and for his support of the Jeffersonian precepts of close relations between faculty and students, as exemplified in the concept of the "academical village;" and

WHEREAS, Mr. Woody was an Assistant Dean of the College of Arts & Sciences and the Chair of the faculty committee which in 1968 recommended unrestricted undergraduate coeducation; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Woody died on January 9, 2000;

RESOLVED that the new first year dormitory under construction behind the Alderman Road dormitories be named Woody House in honor of Thaddeus Braxton Woody.

The Board met, in Open Session, as the full Board at 8:50 a.m., Saturday, June 17, 2000; all Members were present save Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Robertson and Ross.

On motion, the Board approved the following Resolution, offered by Mr. Glazer:

RESOLVED the Board of Visitors recognizes one of its Members, Joseph Wolfe, and congratulates him and the Appalachian School of Law on the graduation of its inaugural class.

The Board adjourned at 8:55 a.m. and resumed at 9:50 a.m. to hear the report of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee appointed by the Rector to study the recommendations of the Governor's Blue Ribbon Commission on Higher Education. All Members of the Board were present save Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Robertson and Ross.

Mr. Greer, the Chair of the Subcommittee, and Mr. Rainey, a member of the Subcommittee and of the Blue Ribbon Commission, reported on the deliberations of the Subcommittee, using as the basis of their report the study undertaken by Ms. Kelsh of the President's staff .

On motion, the Board approved the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee by the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Governor's Blue Ribbon Commission on Higher Education has made recommendations relating to the public responsibilities of boards of visitors each of which is endorsed and supported by the Board of Visitors of the University;

WHEREAS, the Rector of the University appointed an ad hoc subcommittee of the Board of Visitors to study the recommendations applicable to boards of visitors and to recommend action required to assure that the Board of Visitors of the University is discharging its fiduciary responsibilities in accordance with the Commission's recommendations;

WHEREAS, the ad hoc subcommittee has prepared the report (see Attachment A) indicating with respect to each recommendation applicable to boards of visitors whether the policies and procedures followed by the University's Board of Visitors are in compliance with the Commission's recommendations and, in the few instances where that is not presently the case, the action required to bring the Board's policies and procedures into full compliance;

RESOLVED that the attached report of the ad hoc subcommittee is accepted and approved by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED FURTHER that in those few instances where current board policies and procedures are not in full compliance with the recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Commission the implementation plans set forth in the attached report be undertaken promptly to assure full compliance with the Blue Ribbon Commission's recommendations relating to boards of visitors.

The Board adjourned at 10:35 a.m. and resumed at 11:15 a.m., once more in Open Session. All Members were present save Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Robertson and Ross.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2000-2001
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. The normal allocations, which are not to exceed $2.6 million for 2000-01, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. The special distributions are not to exceed $3.5 million for 2000-01. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

APPROVAL OF THE APPOINTMENT OF A PUBLIC MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Christine P. Gustafson is hereby appointed to serve as a public member of the Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company, for a term of four years, beginning July 1, 2000.

APPROVAL OF THE BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL PROPERTY TRANSFER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia has the authority to allow the University to convey the property held by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia known as Blue Ridge Hospital (the Property) on such terms and conditions approved by the Governor and in a manner that respects the historical and environmental significance of Monticello Mountain; and

WHEREAS, the Governor has agreed to a conveyance of the Property to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for development that furthers the educational and research missions of the University of Virginia, and to allow the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation to lease a portion of the Property to build a visitors center.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors delegates authority to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to execute any documents and enter into agreements necessary to effect a transfer of the Blue Ridge Hospital property to the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation.

ADOPTION OF THE RETURN OF TITLE IV FUNDS SCHEDULE AND REVISION OF THE POLICY ON REFUND OF TUITION, FEES AND ROOM AND BOARD CHARGESPOLICY ON REFUND TUITION, FEES, ROOM AND BOARD CHARGES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

School Week

Percentage Retained

PercentageRefunded

1

20

80

2

20

80

3

30

70

4

40

60

5

50

50

6

60

40

After 6

100

0

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Higher Education Amendments of 1998, which substantially revised Section 484B of the Federal Higher Education Act of 1965, require adoption of the Return of Title IV Funds Schedule; and

WHEREAS, the Higher Education Amendments of 1998 eliminate the Pro Rata Refund Schedule; and

WHEREAS, the federal government has mandated compliance with the Higher Education Amendments of October 1998;

RESOLVED that the University adopts the Return of Title IV Funds Schedule as it appears below, effective the first day of the Fall 2000 semester; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University modifies the language of the Policy on Refund of Tuition, Fees and Room and Board Charges to eliminate the Pro Rata Refund Schedule.

In the event a student withdraws from the University and that individual has not received Title IV Aid, the Institutional Refund Schedule will apply.

Institutional Refund Schedule: Tuition and fees will be charged on a percentage basis, based on the school week during which the student withdraws. A school week is defined as the period beginning on Monday and ending on the succeeding Sunday. The first school week of a semester (term) is defined as the week during which the general University Final Registration ends. Application of the Institutional Refund Schedule pertains only to tuition and fees. Room and board refunds are calculated separately, since the student signs a detailed contract for each.

In the event a student withdraws from the University and the student has received Title IV Aid, the Return of Title IV Funds Schedule will apply.

Return of Title IV Funds Schedule: Under this schedule, room and board are considered institutional charges and will be refunded in the same manner as Tuition and Fees, i.e., based on the number of days of attendance. Details of this calculation are complex and are available in either the Bursar's Office or the Office of Financial Aid to Students.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Curry School of Education wishes to pursue basic research in the uses of technology for the education of students with disabilities; and

WHEREAS, a portion of this research may be done in collaboration with ERICA Inc., a small business which has developed unique software and hardware applications which will greatly facilitate this research; and

WHEREAS, University faculty members or employees, Thomas Hutchinson, Peter Beling, George Overstreet, Chris Lankford, and K. Preston White, Jr. have ownership interests in ERICA Inc.; and

WHEREAS, an agreement with ERICA may be entered into by the University under the exemption to the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act as provided in Section 2.1639.6(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia, with approval by the Board of Visitors.

RESOLVED that the exemption under Section 2.1639.6(C)(7) of the Code of Virginia for the proposed agreement between the University and ERICA is approved, provided the annual disclosure statement of economic interests is filed by Thomas Hutchinson, Peter Beling, George Overstreet, Chris Lankford, and K. Preston White, Jr. as required by law, provided the University files its required annual report with the Secretary of the Commonwealth disclosing the contract and responsible managers overseeing its administration, and provided the Deans of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the McIntire School of Commerce, and the Curry School of Education vigilantly oversee and monitor the utilization of University resources in implementation of any contract with ERICA.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Allied Works Architecture, Inc., of Portland, Oregon is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Campbell Hall Addition project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE HOSPITAL EXPANSION PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that RTKL Associates, Inc. of Baltimore, Maryland is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Hospital Expansion project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE MEDICAL RESEARCH BUILDING #6 PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Henningson, Durham, and Richardson of Alexandria, Virginia is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Medical Research Building #6 project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated July 1, 2000, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Campbell Hall Addition project, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR THE MEDICAL RESEARCH BUILDING #6 PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated July 1, 2000, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Medical Research Building #6 project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE VYSSOTSKY COTTAGE GARAGE
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns a small garage (FAACS Building Number: 207-2355) at the McCormick Astronomical Observatory on the University of Virginia's Observatory Hill (Mount Jefferson) in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, this structure has not been used for several years; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Vyssotsky Cottage Garage, 207-2355, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE FAULKNER CARRIAGE HOUSE GARAGE
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University owns a small garage (FAACS Building Number: 207-2611) behind Faulkner House on Old Ivy Road in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, this structure must be demolished to allow for development associated with the addition to the White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Faulkner Carriage House Garage, 207-2611, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the building removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF THE 2000-2001 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 2000-2001 Operating Budget for the Academic Division be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2000-2001 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 2000-2001 Operating Budget for the College at Wise be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2000-2001 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the 2000-2001 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase of 6.0 percent, be approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer, and as approved by the Finance Committee.

AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE FISCAL YEAR 1999-2000 ENDOWMENT INCOME DISTRIBUTION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to increase the Fiscal Year 2000-2001 income distribution of Class A shares thirty percent from $68.76 per share to $89.39 per share, which equals 3.70 percent of the March 31, 2000, market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to increase the Fiscal Year 2000-2001 income distribution of Class B shares thirty percent from $94.43 per share to $122.76 per share, which equals 5.07 percent of the March 31, 2000, market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to increase the Fiscal Year 2000-2001 income distribution to the Sun Trust portion of the Miller Center endowment by four percent from $1,008,000 to $1,048,320, which equals 5.15 percent of the March 31, 2000, market value of that fund.

APPROVAL OF BOND ISSUANCE
-------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 3.2, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Act"), the General Assembly of Virginia has authorized the Virginia College Building Authority (the "Authority") to develop a pooled bond program (the "Program") to purchase bonds and other debt instruments issued by public institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Institutions") to finance or refinance the construction of projects of capital improvement specifically included in a bill passed by a majority of those elected to each house of the General Assembly of Virginia (the "Projects"); and

WHEREAS, the Authority intends to issue from time to time under the Program its Educational Facilities Revenue Bonds (Public Higher Education Financing Program) (the "Bonds") to finance the purchase of bonds and other debt instruments issued by the Institutions to finance or refinance the Projects, all in the furtherance of the purposes of the Act and the Program; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Board") may from time to time wish to finance or refinance Projects of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "Institution") through the Program; and

WHEREAS, if the Institution wishes to finance or refinance a Project through the Program, it will be necessary for the Institution to enter into a Loan Agreement (a "Loan Agreement") between the Authority and the Institution and to evidence the loan to be made by the Authority to the Institution pursuant to the Loan Agreement by issuing the Institution's promissory note (the "Note") pursuant to Section 23-19 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Authority will agree to issue its Bonds and to use certain proceeds of the Bonds to purchase the Note issued by the Institution and the Institution will agree to use the proceeds received from the Authority to finance or refinance the construction of the Project and to make payments under the Loan Agreement and the Note in sums sufficient to pay, together with certain administrative and arbitrage rebate payments, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest due on that portion of the Bonds issued to purchase the Note; and

WHEREAS, the Institution now proposes to sell to the Authority its Note (the "2000A Note") to be issued under a Loan Agreement (the "2000A Loan Agreement") to finance or refinance all or a portion of the costs of the Darden School Expansion project, the National Radio Astronomy Observatory Addition project and the Student Center for the University of Virginia's College at Wise project (together, the "2000A Project"); and

WHEREAS, there has been made available to the Board in the office of the Institution's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer the proposed forms of the 2000A Note and the 2000A Loan Agreement; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to authorize the execution and delivery of the 2000A Loan Agreement and the execution and issuance of the 2000A Note to authorize officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, the 2000A Loan Agreement, the 2000A Note and any and all documents necessary to effectuate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 2000A Project through the Program with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the 2000A Note by the Authority; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board to approve the further participation by the Institution in the Program and to authorize the execution, delivery and issuance of such other Loan Agreements and Notes on terms and conditions substantially similar to the 2000A Loan Agreement and 2000A Note and to similarly authorize certain officers of the Institution to execute, deliver and issue in the name of and on behalf of the Institution, all Loan Agreements, all Notes and any and all future documents necessary to effectuate the Program with the Authority and to facilitate the purchase of the Notes by the Authority.

RESOLVED:

Section 1. The Board authorizes hereby the participation of the Institution in the Program and the execution of the loan agreements and other documents, including any note, as may be authorized by its authorized officers.

Section 2. The President of the Institution and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Institution (the "Authorized Officers"), or either of them, are each hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute, deliver and issue, on behalf of the Board, (a) the 2000A Loan Agreement with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced conclusively by the execution and delivery of the 2000A Loan Agreement, (b) the 2000A Note with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by any Authorized Officer, whose approval shall be evidenced conclusively by the execution and issuance of the 2000A Note, and (c) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary to consummate the financing or refinancing of all or a portion of the costs of the 2000A Project through the Program, the construction of the 2000A Project and the Institution's participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution. The Authorized Officers are directed to take such steps and deliver such certificates prior to the delivery of the 2000A Note as may be required under existing obligations of the Institution.

Section 3. The Authorized Officers, or either of them, are each hereby delegated and invested with full power and authority to execute and deliver, on behalf of the Board, (a) such future Loan Agreements in substantially the form of the 2000A Loan Agreement with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by any Authorized Officer, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Loan Agreement, (b) such future Notes in substantially the form of the 2000A Note with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Authorized Officers, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of the future Note, and (c) any and all other documents, instruments or certificates as may be deemed necessary in the future to consummate the Program, the construction of the Projects and the Institution's participation in the Program, and to further carry out the purposes and intent of this Resolution in the future, it being the intent of the Board that no further action on behalf of the Board shall be necessary to empower the Authorized Officers, or either of them, to execute, deliver and issue such future Loan Agreements, future Notes and other documents as may be deemed necessary in order for the Institution to participate in the Program in the future.

Section 4. The authorizations given above as to the execution, delivery and issuance of the 2000A Loan Agreement and the 2000A Note are subject to the following parameters: (a) that the principal amount to be paid under the 2000A Note shall not be greater than the aggregate amount authorized for the components of the 2000A Project by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law, (b) that the interest rate payable under the 2000A Note shall not exceed a "true" or "Canadian" interest cost more than fifty basis points higher than the interest rate for "AA" rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index on the date that the interest rates on the 2000A Note are determined, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any, (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under the 2000A Note shall not be in excess of twenty (20) years, (d) that the last principal payment date under the 2000A Note with respect to each of the components of the 2000A Project shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of each such component of the 2000A Project, (e) that the financing of the 2000A Project and the terms and provisions of the 2000A Loan Agreement and the 2000A Note will comply with the Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance, and (f) that the actual interest rates, maturities, and date of the 2000A Note shall be approved by an Authorized Officer, which approval will be evidenced by the execution of the 2000A Note.

Section 5. The authorizations given above as to the execution, delivery and issuance of any future Loan Agreements and future Notes are subject to the following parameters: (a) that the principal amount to be paid under such Notes shall not be greater than the amount authorized for the Projects by the General Assembly of Virginia, including any adjustments required or permitted by law, (b) that the interest rate payable under such Notes shall not exceed a "true" or "Canadian" interest cost more than fifty basis points higher than the interest rate for "AA" rated securities with comparable maturities, as reported by Delphis-Hanover, or another comparable service or index on the dates that the interest rates on such Notes are determined, taking into account original issue discount or premium, if any, (c) that the weighted average maturity of the principal payments due under such Notes shall not be in excess of twenty (20) years, (d) that the last principal payment date under such Notes with respect to each of the components of the Projects shall not extend beyond the period of the reasonably expected economic life of each such component of the Projects being financed, and (e) that the financing of the Projects and the terms and provisions of such Loan Agreements and Notes will comply with the Alternative Construction and Financing Guidelines issued by the Commonwealth's Secretary of Finance.

Section 6. The Board acknowledges, on behalf of the Institution, that if the Institution fails to make any payments of debt service due under any Loan Agreement or Note, including the 2000A Loan Agreement and the 2000A Note, the Program authorizes the State Comptroller to charge against the appropriations available to the Institution all future payments of debt service on that Loan Agreement and Note when due and payable and to make such payments to the Authority or its designee, so as to ensure that no future default will occur on such Loan Agreement or Note.

Section 7. The Board agrees that if the Authority determines that the Institution is an "obligated person" with respect to which a disclosure obligation arises under Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to any issue of Bonds, the Institution will enter into a continuing disclosure undertaking in form and substance satisfactory to the Authority and the Institution and will comply with the provisions and disclosure obligations contained therein.

Section 8. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

APPROVAL OF THE CREATION OF A COLLEGE FOUNDATION
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University Policy on University-Related Foundations requires that all new University-Related Foundations receive approval of the Board of Visitors; and

WHEREAS, the Vice President for Development recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the creation of a University-Related Foundation for the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences; and

WHEREAS, this new foundation will adhere to the University's Policy on University-Related Foundations;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the creation of a University-Related Foundation for the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT SCHEDULE
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 20002001, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR THE MONROE LANE STUDENT RESIDENCE PROJECT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the preliminary design, dated June 17, 2000, and prepared by Mitchell/Matthews Architects of Charlottesville, for the Monroe Lane Student Residence project, is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF VDOT AGREEMENT, EMMET STREET BRIDGE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, in accordance with Virginia Department of Transportation construction allocation procedures, it is necessary that a request by resolution be made in order that the Department program an urban highway project at the University of Virginia in the City of Charlottesville.

RESOLVED that the University of Virginia requests the Virginia Department of Transportation to establish an urban system highway project to provide a pedestrian and bicycle bridge over Emmet Street (near Massie Road) and associated roadway improvements, a distance of approximately 2400 feet; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University of Virginia agrees to pay its share of the total cost for preliminary engineering and construction of this project in accordance with Section 33.1-44 of the Code of Virginia, and that, if the University subsequently elects to cancel this project, the University agrees to reimburse the Virginia Department of Transportation for the total amount of the cancellation.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATIONS FROM THE FISCAL YEAR 2000 OPERATING MARGIN OF THE MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Medical Center will exceed its projected four percent operating margin in Fiscal Year 2000; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center's operating margin in Fiscal Year 2000 was positively impacted by both one-time revenue enhancements related to payments for services provided in prior periods and reduced operating costs relative to the volume of activity; and

WHEREAS, the Medical Center staff has contributed significantly to the high quality care of patients under extremely demanding conditions; and

WHEREAS, the Board recognizes the contributions of the staff to the success of the Medical Center in delivering high quality and efficient health care to its patients, and wishes to express its gratitude;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to apply up to $1 million of the Fiscal Year 2000 operating margin of the Medical Center to support the professional development and training of persons who deliver health care, and up to $2 million from the same source to augment the authorization made by the Board in April 2000 to adjust the salaries of critical personnel to market rates with the express purpose of improving retention of the Medical Center's health care staff.

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO THE BOARD'S BYLAWS
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the bylaws of The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board be approved as amended (see Attachment B).

APPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Ms. Marcia Adams-Gilliam, Mr. Don Green, Mr. Ronnie Montgomery, Mr. Ford C. Quillen, and Mr. Henry R. Winkler be appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board, for a term ending June 30, 2004, in accordance with the terms of its bylaws.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR BELVA T. DUNN JONES
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Belva Tune Dunn Jones, an alumna of Mary Washington College, was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Stanley in 1954; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jones was 31 at the time of her appointment, the youngest woman to be named to a board of visitors in the United States; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jones was reappointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Almond for a second term in 1958; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jones was a valued member of the Board with a particular interest in Mary Washington College, at that time a part of the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jones died in Northampton County on May 31, 2000;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors expresses its deepest sympathy to the family of Belva Tune Dunn Jones, as well as its appreciation for her years of devoted service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

ELECTIONS AND RE-ELECTIONS TO THE MILLER CENTER GOVERNING COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Ms. Sylvia B. Mathews and Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., be elected to the Miller Center Governing Council, for three years, effective June 17, 2000;

RESOLVED FURTHER that Ms. Bette B. Anderson and Mr. Daniel K. Frierson be re-elected to the Miller Center Governing Council, for three years, effective June 17, 2000.

APPROVAL OF PROPERTY PURCHASE
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University has identified strategically valuable property adjacent to current Health System facilities that may be available for purchase; and

WHEREAS, the acquisition of adjacent property will assist in addressing the current and future needs for additional space for Medical Center and Medical School programs;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to: 1) negotiate appropriate purchase prices for property adjacent to current Health System facilities that are of strategic importance for the current and future space needs of the Medical Center and the Medical School, subject to the approval of the Chair of the Finance Committee; and 2) execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the acquisition of adjacent property.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 2000 through April 30, 2000 as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Promotions of ChairholdersSpecial Salary Action of Chairholders — Deleted(d) Resignations of ChairholdersPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETEDRESIGNATIONSRE-APPOINTMENTSDEATHSCHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MS. SALLY N. BARBERCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. J. DAVID DECKCHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. CHARLES R. MARSHAPPROVAL OF REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS AND SUPERVISORY STRUCTURE FOR DUAL EMPLOYMENT SITUATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

The following resignations were announced:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

The following resignations were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

The President announced the appointment change:

That the appointment of Ms. Sally N. Barber as Senior Assistant to the Vice President and Provost for the Health System, for two years, effective January 1, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 15, 2000, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. J. David Deck, Associate Professor of Cell Biology, effective June 30, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 16, 1999, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Charles R. Marsh, Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective January 10, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 15, 2000, be changed to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Conflict of Interest Act permits the dual employment of immediate family members by public institutions of higher education that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act, subject to the following conditions:

WHEREAS, Mary Jo Herriman and John C. Herr, who are married to each other, are both employed in the Department of Cell Biology in the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, Mary Jo Herriman is a Research Assistant in the Department of Cell Biology, School of Medicine, of which John C. Herr is Professor of Cell Biology.

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors finds it in the best interest of the University of Virginia and the Commonwealth to employ Mary Jo Herriman and John C. Herr in their positions in the Department of Cell Biology, as Research Assistant and Professor with tenure, respectively;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the reporting relationship and supervisory structure shall be as follows: (a) in Mary Jo Herriman's capacity as a member of the Department of Cell Biology, she reports directly to and is supervised by the Chair of the Department of Cell Biology, Dr. Charles J. Flickinger; and (b) regarding John C. Herr's position as Professor of Cell Biology, there is no reporting or supervisory relationship between Mary Jo Herriman and John C. Herr.

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISESPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETEDRESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced:

The following appointment was announced:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:30 a.m.

AGG:jb

NAME

VOTE yes or no

COMMENTS

John P. Ackerly, II

yes

\-

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

Charles L. Glazer

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

absent

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

yes

Timothy B. Robertson

absent

Terence P. Ross

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Walter F. Walker

yes

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

James C. Wheat, III

yes

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

Stephen S. Phelan, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Friday, June 16, 2000, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: June 16, 2000CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

15

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

2

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

2

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.
