---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2000'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 14-15, 2000
--------------------------------------------------------------

Resolution Commending Mr. Dennis Womack, Coach of the Baseball Team

Establishment of the Robert E. Scott Distinguished Professorship in Law

Renaming of the Distinguished Professorship in Neurosurgery as the John A. Jane Professorship in Neurosurgery

Naming of the Medical Center Child Care Center as the Malcolm W. Cole Child Care Center

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2000-2001 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Delegation of Authority to Amend Faculty and Medical Center Retirement Plans

Approval of the Entry by the University of Virginia Patent Foundation into a New Business Venture, Through its Ownership of a For-Profit Corporation, Spinner Technologies, Inc.

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2000-2001 for the Academic Division

Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for the Academic Division

Approval of Special Session Fee Rate Approval of Increase in Tuition and Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2000-2001 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Approval of Salary Increases and Reserve Requirements for Medical Center Employees

Approval of the Schematic Design for the Monroe Lane Student Residence Project

2001 Board Meeting Dates

Memorial Resolution for Mrs. Eleanor Shannon

Resolution of Commendation for Mr. Robert G. Schoenvogel

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-appointment

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

Death

Change the Retirement of Mr. Alan P. Batson

Change in Re-appointment of Ms. Nancy A. Rivers

Change in Retirement of Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr.

Change in Election of Professor Emeritus of Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr.

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Retirements

Election of Professors Emeriti

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

On motion, the Minutes of the meetings of February 25th and 26th were approved.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:00 a.m., for Committee meetings.

The Board of Visitors, with all Members present who were present at the morning session, resumed in Open Session in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda at 1:20 p.m.

Mr. Ross offered a resolution commending Mr. Dennis Womack, Coach of the Baseball Team. On motion, the following resolution was approved:

WHEREAS, Dennis Womack became the head baseball coach at the University of Virginia in 1981 and earned his first win on March 12, of that year; and

WHEREAS, Coach Womack has led the University of Virginia's baseball team continuously since that time; and

WHEREAS, Coach Womack has brought great distinction to the University's baseball program over the years, including winning in 1996 the University's only ACC Baseball Tournament Championship; having thirty-eight of his players drafted by professional baseball clubs and most recently defeating Number One ranked Florida State University on April 2, 2000;

WHEREAS, on March 15, 2000, Coach Womack won against Princeton University, his 500th winning game;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, on behalf of the entire University community, congratulates Coach Womack on this truly historic achievement of winning his 500th game, commends him for the excellence he has brought to coaching baseball at the University for so many years and the outstanding teams he fields year-in and year-out, wishes him good luck for the remainder of the 2000 season and looks forward to celebrating victories with Coach Womack for many seasons to come.

The following motions were then offered and approved, which enabled the Board to go into Executive Session:

That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss proprietary, business-related information pertaining to, and consideration of matters relating to, a provider servers contract for clinical services to be performed by the University of Virginia Medical Center, where disclosure thereof would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center, consultation with legal counsel concerning federal regulations governing clinic billing practices, and discussion of appointment and assignment of specific administrative employees of the Medical Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1), (7), (8), and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel on the present disposition of pending litigation and further litigation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to review the performance and present and future assignments of senior University administrators, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss with Counsel and consider the status and terms of a proposed gift of property to the University, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University Auditor's performance evaluations of University departments and programs, which will necessarily involve discussion of the performance of specific employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board went into Executive Session at 1:30 p.m., resumed in Open Session at 4:00 p.m., and recessed to the Dome Room of the Rotunda to continue its meeting.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT E. SCOTT DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW RENAMING OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROSURGERY AS THE JOHN A. JANE PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROSURGERY NAMING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER CHILD CARE CENTER AS THE MALCOLM W. COLE CHILD CARE CENTER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resuming in the Dome Room at 4:15 p.m., the Board adopted three resolutions:

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Robert E. Scott joined the faculty of the School of Law in 1974; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Scott has been Dean of the School of Law since 1991; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Scott, currently the Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Professor of Law and the Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law, has a distinguished national reputation as a scholar and teacher, having been elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in recognition of these achievements; and

WHEREAS, an extraordinary number of Dean Scott's friends and associates, and alumni of the School of Law, have contributed generously to create a professorship in his honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Robert E. Scott Distinguished Professorship in Law, in the School of Law, and joins the many donors to the professorship in applauding the achievements of Dean Scott.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors in 1985 established the Distinguished Professorship in Neurosurgery; and

WHEREAS, Dr. John A. Jane has been a member of the faculty of the School of Medicine since 1969 and Chair or Co-Chair of the Department of Neurological Surgery from that date forward; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Jane is a most distinguished and gifted surgeon and teacher with an international reputation; and

WHEREAS, since the creation of the Distinguished Professorship in Neurosurgery, colleagues, friends and former students of Dr. Jane have made gifts to the School of Medicine in anticipation of the Distinguished Professorship being renamed in honor of Dr. Jane;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors renames the Distinguished Professorship in Neurosurgery the John A. Jane Professorship in Neurosurgery in honor of the contributions Dr. Jane has made to research, teaching and the practice of neurosurgery, and commends him for these contributions.

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Mr. Malcolm W. Cole, an alumnus of the University, became Director in 1990 of the child care center established a few years earlier at the Blue Ridge Hospital; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Cole soon realized that the Child Care Center would have to be relocated when the Blue Ridge Hospital closed; and

WHEREAS, largely because of Mr. Cole's vision and perseverance, plans were made to build a new Center on Estes Street, close to the Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Cole died on January 19, 1999; and

WHEREAS, the new Center is to open in April, 2000;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the Child Care Center the Malcolm W. Cole Child Care Center in honor of Mr. Cole's work on behalf of the Center and of his vision of what it should be.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 p.m.

On Saturday, April 14, after Committee meetings which began at 8:35 a.m., the full Board resumed in Open Session at 11:30 a.m; all Members were present save Ms. Twohy and Mr. Walker.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2000-2001 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

1999-2000Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2000-2001Per Month

Paid ByOccupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$465

$19

4.1%

$484

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,G,C,T

$568

$19

3.4%

$587

3 Bedroom Houses (2)

WS,C,T

$628

$25

4.0%

$653

G,E

3 Bedroom Houses (14)(R)

WS,C,T

$787

$31

3.9%

$818

G,E

3BR Townhouses (5)(R)

WS,C,T

$787

$31

3.9%

$818

G,E

121 Mimosa (Farmhouse)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$434

$17

3.9%

$451

Apt. 2, 3 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

U$500

$20

4.0%

$520

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$434

$17

3.9%

$451

Apt. 4, 2 Bedroom

WS,E,G,C,T

$463

$19

4.1%

$482

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

1999-2000Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2000-2001Per Month

Paid ByOccupant

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)(R)

WS,T

$541

$129

23.8%

$670

E,G

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,T,G,A/C

$573

$23

4.0%

$596

E

Lower Alden(2BR)

WS,T,G,V,A/C

$518

$21

4.1%

$539

E

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,T,V,A/C

$381

$20

5.3%

$401

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$541

$22

4.1%

$563

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$460

$18

3.9%

$478

Brown Coll. Range (2BR)

WS,C,HP,T,V,A/C

$555

$22

4.0%

$577

E

Brown College Apt. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$495

$20

4.0%

$515

Hereford Fac. Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$595

$24

4.0%

$619

Upper Vaughn House (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$750

$30

4.0%

$780

102 Cresap Fac. Apt.(F)

WS,E,HVAC,G,T,V

$560

$22

3.9%

$582

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1 BR) (R)

WS,C,T

$435

$20

4.6%

$455

E

Garage (2BR)

WS,C,T

$620

$25

4.0%

645

E,0

Cash House (3BR)

WS,C,T

$648

$26

4.0%

$674

E,O

Birdwood House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$918

$37

4.0%

$955

E,O,G

Faulkner Properties

Hedge House (2BR)(F,R)

WS,C,T,A/C

$616

$19

3.1%

$635

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,A/C

$285

$11

3.9%

$296

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C,T

$555

$22

4.0%

$577

E,G

118 Oakhurst,Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$530

$21

4.0%

$551

E,T

118 Oakhurst,Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$536

$21

3.9%

$557

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)

C

$600

$24

4.0%

$624

WS,E,G,T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)

C

$600

$24

4.0%

$624

WS,E,G,T

503 Valley Road, (1 BR)

C

$392

$16

4.1%

$408

WS,E,G,T

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$502

$20

4.0%

$522

Apt. 12, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$502

$20

4.0%

$522

Apt. 14, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$502

$20

4.0%

$522

Apt. 15, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$502

$20

4.0%

$522

Apt. 21, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$341

$14

4.1%

$355

Apt. 22, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$390

$16

4.1%

$406

Apt. 23, (Eff)

WS,E,G,C,T

$341

$14

4.1%

$355

Apt. 24, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$390

$16

4.1%

$406

Apt. 25, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 26, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 27, (1 BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 28, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 31, (I BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 32, (1 BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$411

$17

4.1%

$428

Apt. 33, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$444

$18

4.1%

$462

Apt. 34, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$444

$18

4.1%

$462

Apt. 35, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$444

$18

4.1%

$462

Apt. 36, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$444

$18

4.1%

$462

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

UtilitiesFurnished

1999-2000Per Month

AmountIncrease

PercentIncrease

2000-2001Per Month

Paid ByOccupant

E & G Properties Rents

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,O,A/C

$620

$25

4.0%

$645

C, T

Big Morea (4 BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$869

$35

4.0%

$904

C

Little Morea (2BR) (F)

WS,E,O,A/C,T

$668

$27

4.0%

$695

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,425

$13

0.9%

$1,438

C

Brown College House(4 BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$804

$32

4.0%

$836

C

Buckingham Palace

WS,E,HP,A/C,T

$297

$12

4.0%

$309

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$734

$29

4.0%

$763

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$543

$22

4.0%

$565

E

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$734

$29

4.0%

$763

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$543

$22

4.0%

$565

E

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$734

$29

4.0%

$763

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$734

$29

4.0%

$763

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$248

$10

4.0%

$258

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$472

$19

4.0%

$491

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$734

$29

4.0%

$763

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$543

$22

4.1%

$565

E

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,0

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

Houses (6)

WS

$450

$13

2.9%

$463

G,E

2 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$445

$13

2.9%

$458

E

1 Bedroom Apt (2)

WS,G

$418

$12

2.9%

$430

E

Cohen House

N/A

$650

$18

2.8%

$668

WS,O,E

"R" designates renovated properties; "F" designates furnished properties. Utility abbreviations: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), 0 (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system. A/C (window air conditioning), (cable TV). V (voice and data) and T (trash removal).

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2000. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO AMEND FACULTY AND MEDICAL CENTER RETIREMENT PLANS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors possesses the authority to amend the Defined Contribution Retirement Plans for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia and the University of Virginia Medical Center (the "Plans") under the terms of the Plans; and

WHEREAS, the Board currently reviews and either approves or rejects both policy and technical changes to the Plans pursuant to that authority; and

WHEREAS, the Plans must be amended periodically to comply with changes in the state and federal statutes that authorize them and govern their terms; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has approved unanimously several such changes as consent agenda items;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to amend and supplement the Plans as necessary to comply with changes in applicable state and federal laws not involving policy discretion; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that changes to the Plans made by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer shall be reported to the Finance Committee on an annual basis.

APPROVAL OF THE ENTRY BY THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PATENT FOUNDATION INTO A NEW BUSINESS VENTURE, THROUGH ITS OWNERSHIP OF A FOR-PROFIT CORPORATION, SPINNER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the University Policy on University-Related Foundations requires that University-Related Foundations submit for Board of Visitors' approval any new business venture; and

WHEREAS, the Vice President for Research and Public Service recommends that the Board of Visitors approve the entry by the University of Virginia Patent Foundation into a new business venture, by forming a for-profit corporation, Spinner Technologies, Inc., to invest in and further develop start-up companies and commercialize University inventions; and

WHEREAS, the University shall have no financial obligation to support Spinner Technologies, Inc.;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the University of Virginia Patent Foundation undertaking Spinner Technologies, Inc.; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized, following consultation with the General Counsel, to execute such agreements as may be in the University's best interests, for provision of University facilities and services to Spinner Technologies, Inc., with appropriate compensation to the University.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2000-2001 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual1999-00

Amount ofInc./(Decr.)

PercentInc./(Decr.)

Proposed2000-01

University Transit

$84

$4

4.8%

$88

Recreational Facilities

$60

$7

11.7%

$67

Auxiliary Debt Service

$189

($2)

(1.1%)

$187

Athletics

$229

$9

3.9%

$238

Student Health

$274

$10

3.6%

$284

Newcomb Hall Operating

$98

$0

0.0%

$98

Student Programming

$26

$0

0.0%

$26

WTJU

$4

$2

50.00%

$6

Capital Renewal Fee

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Technology Fee

$45

$0

0.0%

$45

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,045

$30

2.9%

$1,075

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 2000, in the amount of $1,075; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 2000-01 session as follows:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

REGULAR SESSION:

Undergraduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$3,144

$0

0.0%

$3,144

$15,617

$776

5.0%

16,393

Auxiliary Fees

$947

$30

3.2%

$977

$947

$30

3.2%

$977

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$4,091

$30

0.7%

$4,121

$16,564

$806

4.9%

$17,370

Graduate School:

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$3,930

$77

2.0%

4,007

$15,617

$776

5.0%

16,393

Auxiliary Fees

$947

$30

3.2%

$977

$947

$30

3.2%

$977

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$4,877

$107

2.2%

$4,984

$16,564

$806

4.9%

$17,370

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration (Tuition & Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2000

n/a

n/a

n/a

$19,114

$22,577

$1,537

6.8%

$24,114

Students Entering Fall 1999

$16,851

$1,057

6.3%

17,908

$22,577

$1,537

6.8%

$24,114

School of Law (Tuition & Fees):

$15,246

$484

3.2%

15,730

$21,645

$1,966

9.1%

$23,611

School of Medicine (Tuition & Fees):

Students Entering Fall 2000

n/a

n/a

n/a

$13,541

$24,994

$1,227

4.9%

$26,221

Students Entering Fall 1999

$13,013

$528

4.1%

$13,541

$24,994

$1,227

4.9%

$26,221

Students Entering Fall 1998

$12,013

$528

4.4%

$12,541

$24,994

$1,227

4.9%

$26,221

Students Entering Fall 1997

$11,013

$528

4.8%

$11,541

$24,994

$1,227

4.9%

$26,221

McIntire School of Commerce Executive Master of Science in Management Information Systems

Annual Tuition and Fees

$27,000

$950

3.5%

$27,950

$31,500

$1,200

3.8%

$32,700

(Price includes tuition, fees, room, board technology costs, computer lease, books, local transportation and miscellaneous expenses)

Other Charges:

Application Fee-Undergraduate

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

Application Fee-Graduate

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

Application Fee- Law

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

Application Fee —Darden

$l00

$40

40.0%

$140

$100

$40

40.0%

$140

Application Fee-Medicine

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

Activity Fee-All Full-time Students

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

$39

$0

0.0%

$39

Activity Fee- All Part-time Students

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Activity Fee - Arts & Sciences

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

$4

$0

0.0%

$4

Activity Fee - Architecture

$40

$6

15.0%

$46

$40

$6

15.0%

$46

Activity Fee-Commerce

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee - Darden

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

$55

$0

0.0%

$55

Activity Fee-Education

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee-Engineering

$l0

$0

0.0%

$10

$l0

$0

0.0%

$10

Activity Fee-Grad. Arts & Sciences

$4

$6

150.0%

$l0

$4

$6

150.0%

$10

Activity Fee - Law School

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

Activity Fee-Medicine

$102

$4

3.9%

$106

$102

$4

3.9%

$106

Activity Fee-Nursing

$40

$10

25.0%

$50

$40

$10

25.0%

$50

Residential College Fee-Hereford

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee-Brown

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Residential College Fee-Mosaic

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

$100

$0

0.0%

$100

Residential College Fee-French

$0

$100

N/A

$100

$0

$100

N/A

$100

Residential College Fee-Spanish

$0

$100

N/A

$100

$0

$100

N/A

$100

School of Continuing and Professional Studies (SCPS):

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (BIS) Per Semester

1-3 hours

$635

$0

0.0%

$635

$2,569

$128

5.0%

$2,697

4-8 hours

$1,287

$0

0.0%

$1,287

$5,196

$260

5.0%

$5,456

9 or more hours

$1,916

$0

0.0%

$1,916

$7,760

$388

5.0%

$8,148

Non-Degree Programs Per Hour

Undergraduate

$113

$0

0.0%

$113

$237

$12

5.1%

$249

Graduate

$141

$3

2.1%

$144

$237

$12

5.1%

$249

K-12 Educators

$133

$0

0.0%

$133

$216

$11

5.1%

$227

Professional Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$157

$3

1.9%

$160

$246

$12

4.9%

$258

All Other Centers

$151

$3

2.0%

$154

$240

$12

5.0%

$252

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

Actual1999-2000

Amount ofChange

Percent ofChange

Proposed2000-01

Special Students Registered through SCPS in On-Grounds Courses Per Hour

$211

$0

0.0%

$211

$858

$43

5.0%

$901

Graduate Degree Programs Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$201

$4

2.0%

$205

$302

$15

5.0%

$317

All Other Centers

$196

$4

2.0%

$200

$296

$15

5.1%

$311

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

Northern Virginia

$262

$5

1.9%

$267

$476

$24

5.0%

$500

All Other Centers

$257

$5

1.9%

$262

$469

$23

4.9%

$492

Application Fee

Certificate and Special Programs

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies

$0

$60

N/A

$60

$0

$60

N/A

$60

No.Va. Center Facilities Fee Per Hour

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

Technology Fee

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

$20

$0

0.0%

$20

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

2001 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Per Semester Hour

$109

$0

0.0%

$109

$544

$27

5.0%

$571

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$408

$24

5.9%

$432

$408

$24

5.9%

$432

Appellate Judges Program

$1,224

$24

2.0%

$1,248

$1,224

$61

5.0%

$1,285

Non-Resident Fee

$58

$4

6.9%

$62

$58

$4

6.9%

$62

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

$40

$0

0.0%

$40

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$77

$2

2.6%

$79

$77

$2

2.6%

$79

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher (per week):

Senior Investigators

$224

$6

2.7%

$230

$224

$6

2.7%

$230

Co-Investigators

$58

$2

3.4%

$60

$58

$2

3.4%

$60

Graduate Students

$58

$2

3.4%

$60

$58

$2

3.4%

$60

New Student Orientation:

Orientation Fee

$175

$5

2.9%

$180

$175

$5

2.9%

$180

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2000; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to adjust the application fee in accordance with the Appropriations Act and Board of Visitors' policy.

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2000-2001 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual1999-00

Amount ofInc./(Decr.)

PercentInc./(Decr.)

Proposed2000-01

University Transit

$84

$4

4.8%

$88

Recreational Facilities

$60

$7

11.7%

$67

Auxiliary Debt Service

$189

($2)

(1.1%)

$187

Athletics

$229

$9

3.9%

$238

Student Health

$274

$10

3.6%

$284

Newcomb Hall Operating

$98

$0

0.0%

$98

Student Programming

$26

$0

0.0%

$26

WTJU

$4

$2

50.0%

$6

Capital Renewal Fe

$24

$0

0.0%

$24

Arts Fee

$12

$0

0.0%

$12

Technology Fee

$45

$0

0.0%

$45

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,045

$30

2.9%

$1,075

RESOLVED that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be established, effective July 1, 2000, in the amount of $1,075.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the fee component be allocated for the 2000-01 Session as follows:

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL SESSION FEE RATE:
-------------------------------------

University Transit

$16

$l

6.3%

$17

Recreational Facilities

$16

$2

12.5%

$18

Student Health (Summer Session only)

$91

$2

2.2%

$93

Newcomb Hall Operating

$18

$0

0.0%

$18

Classroom Renewal Fee

$6

$0

0.0%

$6

Technology Fee

$5

$0

0.0%

$5

Arts Fee

$0

$6

N/A

$6

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL

$152

$11

7.2%

$163

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the fall session of 2000:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual1999-00

Amount ofIncrease

Proposed2000-2001

Actual1999-00

Amount ofIncrease

Proposed2000-2001

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

Full-time Students (12 hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$1,930

$0

0.0%

$1,930

$8,024

$400

5.0%

$8,424

Auxiliary Fees

$1,262

$138

10.9%

$1,400

$1,262

$138

10.9%

$1,400

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$3,192

$138

4.3%

$3,330

$9,286

$538

5.8%

$9,824

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

Part-time Students (less than 12 hrs. per semester) per semester hr.

$77

$0

0.0%

$77

$330

$16

4.8%

$346

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses per hour

$77

$0

0.0%

$77

$230

$12

5.2%

$242

Non-Credit Courses per CEU

$34

$0

0.0%

$34

$108

$0

0.0%

$108

Other Fees:

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to The University of Virginia's College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2000:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia's College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.2:1.B of the Code of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2000-2001 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual1999-2000

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2000-2001

Dining Service Contract (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,530

$100

4.0%

$2,630

10 Meals per week w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$2,070

$80

3.9%

$2,150

10 Meals per week w/ $780 Plus Dollars

$2,530

$100

4.0%

$2,630

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

$2,530

$100

4.0%

$2,630

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

$2,530

$100

4.0%

$2,630

50 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$970

$40

4.1%

$1,010

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$1,280

$50

3.9%

$1,330

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$1,470

$60

4.1%

$1,530

Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

10 Meals per week w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$2,180

$80

3.7%

$2,260

10 Meals per week w/ $780 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$1,390

$50

3.6%

$1,440

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$1,580

$60

3.8%

$ 1,640

Athletics

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

10 Meals per week w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$2,180

$80

3.7%

$2,260

10 Meals per week w/ $780 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

$2,640

$100

3.8%

$2,740

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

$1,580

$60

3.8%

$1,640

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$2,164

$64

3.0%

$2,228

12 Meal Plan

$1,946

$58

3.0%

$2,004

(1) Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any board dining hall and/or retail operation.(2) First-year students are required to purchase a 13, 15, or unlimited meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester they may switch to the ten-meal plan with $780 Plus Dollars.(3) Residents of the Lawn, residential colleges and language houses with dining facilities are required to purchase a meal plan.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2000-2001 session:

APPROVAL OF SALARY INCREASES AND RESERVE REQUIREMENTS FOR MEDICAL CENTER EMPLOYEES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, the codified autonomy legislation expanded the Board of Visitors authority to establish compensation plans; and

WHEREAS, compensation surveys and trends data of salaries paid by area, state and regional health care and other employers have been conducted and analyzed; and

WHEREAS, the results of this information support an average salary increase of 4.0 percent, for Medical Center employees, effective fiscal year 2001, with up to an additional 2.0 percent of total fiscal year 2000 salaries to be used to adjust salaries of critical personnel to market rates, if required.

RESOLVED that the performance-based salary adjustments for Medical Center employees of 4.0 percent, and additional adjustments for critical personnel not to exceed 2.0 percent of total fiscal year 2000 salaries, are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, adjustment of salary ranges by 4.0 percent at the minimum to accommodate salary increases is approved.

APPROVAL OF THE SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE MONROE LANE STUDENT RESIDENCE PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 14, 2000, and prepared by Mitchell/Matthews Architects of Charlottesville, for the Monroe Lane Student Residence project, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the preliminary design level of development.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President gave a summary report of recent gifts and grants made to the University. On motion, the report was accepted by the Board.

2001 BOARD MEETING DATES
------------------------

The schedule of Board meetings for 2001 was proposed dates. Mr. Wheat suggested that the October meeting be held if possible in conjunction with a home football game. The Board concurred, accepted the proposed dates on motion, but asked that the date of the October meeting be reconsidered with the possibility of extending the meeting into a home football game.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors sets its meeting dates for 2001 as follows:

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MRS. ELEANOR SHANNON
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Eleanor Bosworth Shannon was born in Memphis in 1925 and took a B.A. at Sweet Briar College in 1947 and an M.A. at Cornell University in 1949; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shannon, then Miss Bosworth, was Assistant Professor of History and later Acting Dean of Women at Southwestern College in Memphis; and

WHEREAS, Eleanor Bosworth married Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr., a native of Lexington and a member of the faculty of Harvard University, in 1956; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Shannon moved to Charlottesville in 1956 when Mr. Shannon joined the English Department of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Shannon was elected President of the University in 1959; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shannon was in every way the "first lady" of the University from 1959 to 1974, serving the institution in countless ways and advancing its cause; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shannon's service to the University was recognized in 1972 when she received the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shannon's lifelong interest in learning was represented by her service on the boards of trustees of Sweet Briar College and Rhodes College, by her participation as a founder of The Learning Center in Charlottesville and by the foundation which she and Mr. Shannon and others created, The Edgar and Eleanor Shannon Foundation for Excellence in the Charlottesville-Albemarle Schools; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Shannon died in Charlottesville on March 3, 2000;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors celebrates the life and achievements of Eleanor Bosworth Shannon, particularly her service to the University of Virginia, notes with profound sorrow her death and expresses its deepest sympathy to her family.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MR. ROBERT G. SCHOENVOGEL
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, Robert Guyton Schoenvogel of Dallas matriculated in the College in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Schoenvogel was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors on January 30, 1999, and took office on March 27, 1999; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Schoenvogel's term expires April 15, 2000; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Schoenvogel has served the Board and the University with great distinction and has won numerous honors which reflect this service, the esteem in which he is held by his fellow students, his scholarship and his love of and devotion to the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Schoenvogel will take his B.A. from the University on May 21, 2000;

RESOLVED that the Board expresses its affection and appreciation to Robert Guyton Schoenvogel, and wishes him every success as he embarks on a career in investment banking in New York.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period January 1, 2000 through February 29, 2000 as presented by the Director of Audit, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONS
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders(b) Change of Title of Chairholder(c) Retirement of ChairholdersSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS - DELETED RESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTS APPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI DEATH CHANGE THE RETIREMENT OF MR. ALAN P. BATSON CHANGE IN REAPPOINTMENT OF MS. NANCY A. RIVERS CHANGE IN RETIREMENT OF DR. B. LEWIS BARNETT, JR. CHANGE IN ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF DR. B. LEWIS BARNETT, JR.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

The following retirements were announced:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointment was announced:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following death was announced:

The President announced a change in the retirement of Mr. Alan P. Batson, Professor of Computer Science, effective January 9, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 16, 1999, to read as follows:

The President announced a change in the reappointment of Ms. Nancy A. Rivers as Assistant to the Vice President for Management and Budget, for three years, effective August 26, 1999, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 26, 2000, to read as follows:

The President announced a change in the retirement of Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr., Walter M. Seward Professor of Family Medicine, effective February 1, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 26, 2000, to read as follows:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Professor Emeritus of Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr., Walter M. Seward Professor of Family Medicine, effective February 1, 2000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 26, 2000, be changed to read as follows:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISERETIREMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following retirements were announced:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following resolutions were adopted by Committees of the Board since the last meeting of the full Board on February 25 and 26, 2000. None of these resolutions required action by the full Board and they are listed here simply as a matter of record.

The Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) on March 22, 2000, adopted the following resolutions:

RESOLVED that an additional investment of $25 million in Sloane Robinson of London is approved, subject to the approval of the international subcommittee of the Board.

RESOLVED that an investment of $15 million with Battery Ventures V is approved.

RESOLVED that an investment of $25 million with Spectrum Equity Investors IV is approved.

RESOLVED that an investment of $25 million with Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe is approved.

RESOLVED that investments of $25 million each with a large cap and a small cap growth manager are approved, subject to the approval of the domestic equity subcommittee of the Board.

RESOLVED that Deutsche Bank, AG is approved as the agent for the securities lending program.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee on April 15, 2000, adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Buildings and Grounds Committee approves the proposed design of the handicapped access ramp on the southwest front of the Rotunda, provided that it is paved with brick - so long as the brick complies with applicable ADA requirements - and that both sets of steps leading from the Lawn to the lower level of the Rotunda be repositioned in symmetry with each other.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 11:45 a.m.

AGG:jb

NAME

VOTE(yes or no)

COMMENTS

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

Charles L. Glazer

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

COMMENTS

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

yes

Timothy B. Robertson

yes

Terence P. Ross

yes

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Walter F. Walker

absent

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

James C. Wheat, III

yes

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

Robert G. Schoenvogel

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on April 14, 2000, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments". NAMEVOTE(yes or no)COMMENTSJohn P. Ackerly, IIIyesThomas J. Bliley, JryesCharles M. Caravati, Jr.yesWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr.yesCharles L. GlazeryesWilliam H. Goodwin, Jr.yesT. Keister GreeryesCOMMENTSElsie Goodwyn HollandyesGordon F. Rainey, Jr.yesTimothy B. RobertsonyesTerence P. RossyesElizabeth A. Twohyyes Walter F. WalkerabsentBenjamin P.A. WarthenyesJames C. Wheat, IIIyesJoseph E. WolfeyesRobert G. Schoenvogelyes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: April 14, 2000 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

16

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

1

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

1

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].
