---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2001'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JUNE 15-16, 2001
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Establishment of the Bank of America Research Professorship in Business Administration in the Darden School

6004

Establishment of the Malvina Yuille Boyd Professorship in Oncology Nursing in the School of Nursing

6005

Establishment of the John Allen Hollingsworth Professorship in Ethics

6005

Establishment of the Warner-Booker Distinguished Professorship in International Law in the School of Law

6006

Establishment of the Wilhelm Professorship in Diseases of the Breast in the School of Medicine

6006

Establishment of the Emmet F. and N. Alys Low Professorship in Physics at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6007

Establishment of the Joseph C. Smiddy Professorship at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6008

Approval of Reappointment to the University of Virginia Investment Management Company Board

6009

Conflict of Interest Exemption (AVIR, LLC)

6009

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Virginia Diodes, Inc., Part A)

6010

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Virginia Diodes, Inc., Part B)

6011

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Setagon, Inc.)

6012

Conflict of Interest Exemption (Alglutamine, LLC)

6012

PAGE

Approval to Rename the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professorship in Architecture to the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professorship in Architecture

6013

Approval to Rename the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professorship in History to the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professorship in History

6013

Approval to Rename the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Lectureship to the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Lectureship

6014

Approval of Architect Selection for the Campbell Hall Addition

6014

Approval of Architect Selection, 1000 Car Parking Structure

6014

Approval of Architect Selection for a Term Contract for School of Medicine Laboratories and Support Spaces

6014

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines, Hospital Expansion

6014

Approval to Remove Four Farm Buildings at Blandy Farm

6015

Approval of the 2001-2001 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

6015

Approval of the 2001-2002 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia's College at Wise

6016

Approval of the 2001-2002 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

6016

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2001-2002

6016

Approval of Policy on Signatory Authority

6017

Approval of Audit Schedule

6017

Approval of the Appointments to The University of of Virginia's College at Wise Board

6017

Authority to Approve Certain Capital Outlay Projects and Increases in the Size and Scope of Current Projects

6018

Resolution of Commendation for George E. Culbertson

6019

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

6019

Delegation of Authority to Negotiate and Execute Transactions Related to Non-Endowment Business Ventures

6019

2001-2002 Salary for Chancellor Steven H. Kaplan

6020

Commitment to Chancellor Steven H. Kaplan for the of Education of Silia, Noemi, and Janina Kaplan

6021

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6021

Actions Relating to Chairholders

6022

Promotions

6026

Special Salary Actions

6033

Resignations

6036

Retirements

6037

Appointments

6037

Re-appointments

6037

Election of Mr. Gene D. Block as Vice President and Provost

6038

Election of Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds as Vice President for Finance

6038

Election of Mr. William W. Harmon as Senior Vice President

6038

Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Interim Vice President for Student Affairs

6038

Election of Professor Emeritus

6039

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6039

Death

6039

Change in the Chair Election of Dr. Mark E. Williams

6039

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

6040

Promotions

6040

Special Salary Actions

6040

Resignation

6042

Appointment

6042

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 15-16, 2001
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convened, in Open Session, at 8:40 a.m., Friday, June 15, 2001, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Timothy B. Robertson, Terence P. Ross, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, and Joseph E. Wolfe were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Peter W. Low, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, William W. Harmon, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Gene D. Block, George E. Culbertson, Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, Craig Littlepage, Ms. Lynn Mitchell, George E. Culbertson, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

Ms. Abby Fifer, President of the Student Council, attended the meeting by special invitation of the Rector.

On motion, the Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of April 6-7, 2001, were approved.

The Rector remarked on a miscellany of subjects, including a brief summary of the recent meeting of the State Council on Higher Education held in the Rotunda. He invited Members to participate in the Honor System orientation portion of the Summer Orientation for incoming students. These sessions will take place during the month of July.

According to the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Executive Committee must be elected each year at the Annual Meeting of the Board. As the June meeting this year is the Annual Meeting, the Rector proposed that the current Executive Committee be re-elected.

The Rector's proposal was moved and seconded and the Executive Committee was re-elected by voice vote.

The President gave his customary report. He introduced Mr. Block as Provost-elect, Ms. Reynolds as Vice President for Finance, Mr. Ayers as Dean of Arts and Sciences-elect, Mr. Kaplan as Chancellor-elect of The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and Mr. Norris as Chief of Police-elect. He reviewed as well the several searches in progress and noted that Ms. Patricia Lampkin will serve as interim Vice President for Student Affairs, Mr. Ray Smith as interim Dean of the Darden School, and Mr. Craig Littlepage as interim Director of Athletics.

In his report on recent gifts and grants to the University, the President noted the large gift of land in Albemarle County from Mr. John Kluge. He also announced an anonymous gift of $20million for the core project of the new Arena. The donor, he said, envisions a building that would be a resource for the community, in addition to serving as a facility for sports teams. The total cost of the Arena project would be approximately $120 million.

Mr. Goodwin commended the President for his leadership.

Ms. Lynn Mitchell, Associate Director of Athletics for Compliance, gave her annual presentation on NCAA compliance.

The Board adjourned at 9:35 a.m., to go into committee meetings.

The full Board convened again, in Open Session, at 1:30 p.m., and approved the following motions permitting it to go into Executive Session. All Members present at the morning session were present for this session at well.

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members and employees of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to be advised by General Counsel with respect to pending litigation and student disciplinary proceedings, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (2) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss the appointment, assignment, performance, and evaluation of prospective candidates and specific employees of the University and departments of the Medical Center which will necessarily involve discussion of the performance of specific individuals; to discuss continuing investment in a joint venture which will involve consideration of personnel and proprietary business data of the Medical Center, where public disclosure at this time would adversely affect the Medical Center's competitive position; and to discuss with legal counsel the performance of Medical Center departments complying with regulatory requirements which will also necessarily involve discussion of the performance of specific individuals, as authorized by Section 2.1-344 A (1), (5), (6), (7), (8) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of a gift of real estate, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(8) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss investment strategy with regard to the University's Endowment and investment in an overseas operation, and to evaluate continuing investment in a joint venture involving proprietary business-related interests of the Medical Center where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (5), (8) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

At 1:35 p.m., the Board went into Executive Session, resumed in Open Session at 3:15 p.m., and adjourned.

The full Board resumed its meeting, again in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the earlier sessions that day were present.

The Board adopted the following resolutions at this session:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BANK OF AMERICA RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION IN THE DARDEN SCHOOL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, NationsBank in 1997 made a generous pledge to the University for professorships in the McIntire School of Commerce and the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, as well as scholarships in the McIntire School; and

WHEREAS, NationsBank subsequently has merged with the Bank of America to become the Bank of America; and

WHEREAS, the NationsBank Professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce was established by the Board of Visitors in November, 1997 and renamed the Bank of America Professorship in the McIntire School of Commerce in January, 2001;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Bank of America Research Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and thanks the Bank of America for its generosity which has made this chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MALVINA YUILLE BOYD PROFESSORSHIP IN ONCOLOGY NURSING IN THE SCHOOL OF NURSING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Malvina Yuille Boyd was a nurse at the University of Virginia Hospital in the 1940's; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jeannine B. Cowles, a granddaughter of Malvina Yuille Boyd, made a challenge gift to establish a professorship in honor of her grandmother, as well as in honor of Malvina Yuille Bouchard Hanks, a sister of Mrs. Cowles; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Judith A. Fox, the Theresa A. Thomas Memorial Foundation, the Ward K. Ensminger Charitable Trust, and the David A. Harrison, III, Fund have made generous contributions for the professorship;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Malvina Yuille Boyd Professorship in Oncology Nursing, to be held in the School of Nursing, and thanks Mrs. Cowles, Ms. Fox, the Theresa A. Thomas Memorial Foundation, the Ward K. Ensminger Charitable Trust and the David A. Harrison, III, Fund, for their generosity.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN ALLEN HOLLINGSWORTH PROFESSORSHIP IN ETHICS
---------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, John Allen Hollingsworth was a leader among his peers as a student at the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Hollingsworth had a distinguished career after he took his B.A. from the University in 1951 and as a senior business executive became interested in questions of practical ethics; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Hollingsworth and his wife, Patricia A. Hollingsworth, have made a gift to the University in commemoration of the 50th reunion of his class; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Hollingsworth have directed that their gift be used to establish a University-wide professorship in ethics;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the John Allen Hollingsworth Professorship in Ethics, to be held in the Office of the Provost, and thanks Mr. and Mrs. Hollingsworth for their generosity and vision which has made this chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WARNER-BOOKER DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL LAW IN THE SCHOOL OF LAW
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Donald W. Booker of Wilmington, Delaware, took his law degree from the University of Virginia in 1948; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Booker was a distinguished member of the Delaware Bar and practiced law in his native city for the rest of his life; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Booker died on April 24, 2000, and left a bequest for the establishment of a professorship in the School of Law;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Warner-Booker Distinguished Professorship in International Law, to be held in the School of Law, and expresses its gratitude for the bequest from Donald W. Booker which has made this chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WILHELM PROFESSORSHIP IN DISEASES OF THE BREAST IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Dr. Morton C. Wilhelm took his M.D. from the School of Medicine in 1947 and returned to join the faculty in 1956; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Wilhelm became Professor of Surgery, Chief of the Division of Surgical Oncology and the first Director of the Breast Clinic and Breast Resources Center; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Wilhelm was elected Professor Emeritus in 1993; and

WHEREAS, a number of Dr. Wilhelm's friends and former patients have contributed generously to establish, in Dr. Wilhelm's honor, a professorship in diseases of the breast;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Wilhelm Professorship in Diseases of the Breast, to be held in the School of Medicine, expresses its appreciation to the generous donors who have made this chair possible, and honors the contributions of Dr. Wilhelm to medicine and to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EMMET F. AND N. ALYS LOW PROFESSORSHIP IN PHYSICS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Emmet F. Low, Academic Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Mathematics at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, has had a significant influence in the shaping of the academic curriculum at the College; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Low became interested in physics while he was a graduate student in mathematics at the University of Florida; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Low wishes to encourage the study and teaching of physics and to emphasize its importance in the curriculum at The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Low has made a generous gift for the advancement of physics at the College and to honor his mother and stepfather;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Emmet F. and N. Alys Low Professorship in Physics at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and thanks Mr. Low for his generosity and for his commitment and devotion to the College.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOSEPH C. SMIDDY PROFESSORSHIP AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Joseph C. Smiddy, Chancellor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Biology at Clinch Valley College, was Chancellor of the College — now The University of Virginia's College at Wise — from 1957 to 1985; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smiddy's vision of the College has been a firm commitment to the liberal arts; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smiddy's devotion to the College and to Southwest Virginia is well known throughout Virginia to the point where he is the embodiment of both his school and his region; and

WHEREAS, numerous friends and admirers have made generous gifts to the College to establish a professorship in Mr. Smiddy's honor;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Joseph C. Smiddy Professorship at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, to be rotated among the departments at the College, thanks the many friends of Mr. Smiddy who have made the Professorship possible, and pays honor to Mr. Smiddy's devotion and commitment to the College and to Southwest Virginia.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 9:05 a.m., Saturday, June 16, 2001, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; the Rector presided. All Members present the previous day, save Messrs. Glazer and Goodwin, were present.

The Rector noted the Kluge land gift and outlined possible uses and disposition of various pieces of the property. He proposed that the Board tour the property in the summer or early fall.

The Rector introduced Mr. Allen Roberts, President of the College Foundation, who proposed a brief tour — following the Board meeting - of several buildings used by the College: principally Cabell Hall, Cocke Hall and Gilmer Hall. The Secretary previously had made arrangements for a tour of Pavilion V, which has been proposed as offices for the new Dean.

The Board adopted the following resolutions at this session:

APPROVAL OF REAPPOINTMENT TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY BOARD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the policies of the Board of Visitors authorize appointment of up to four public members to the University of Virginia Investment Company, who shall be alumni of the University, to serve as non-voting members in staggered initial terms not to exceed four years, and the aforesaid policies further provide that no member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive four-year terms.

RESOLVED that Mr. Matthew G. Thompson of Richmond is reappointed to serve as a public member of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company Board for a term of four years beginning July 1, 2001.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (AVIR, LLC)
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Avir, LLC, to develop a prototype of a remote chemical sensor for chemical agents; and

WHEREAS, Gabriel Laufer has disclosed in advance that his equity interests in Avir, LLC, exceed 3 percent; and

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science's entry into a research agreement with Avir, LLC, would thereby expose Mr. Laufer to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Gabriel Laufer is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into an agreement with Avir, LLC, for research funding to investigate remote chemical sensing; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Laufer files the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Avir, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the relevant department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (VIRGINIA DIODES, INC., PART A)
--------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science has entered into a sponsored research contract with Virginia Diodes, Inc., to pursue basic research in the area of high frequency barrier diodes; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jeffrey Hesler has recently acquired an equity interest in Virginia Diodes, Inc.; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jeffrey Hesler has recently joined the faculty in the Department of Electrical Engineering; and

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science's research agreement with Virginia Diodes, Inc., would thereby expose Mr. Hesler to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Mr. Jeffrey Hesler is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to continue the research agreement with Virginia Diodes, Inc., to investigate high frequency barrier diodes; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Hesler files the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Virginia Diodes, Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (VIRGINIA DIODES, INC., PART B)
--------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Virginia Diodes, Inc., to pursue basic research in the area of high frequency barrier diodes; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Thomas Crowe, Mr. William Bishop, and Mr. Jeffrey Hesler have equity interests in Virginia Diodes, Inc., which exceed 3 percent; and

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science's research agreement with Virginia Diodes, Inc., would thereby expose Mr. Crowe, Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Hesler to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Mr. Thomas Crowe, Mr. William Bishop, and Mr. Jeffrey Hesler are approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to continue the research agreement with Virginia Diodes, Inc., to investigate high frequency barrier diodes; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Crowe, Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Hesler each file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Virginia Diodes, Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (SETAGON, INC.)
----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science wishes to enter into a sponsored research contract with Setagon, Inc., to pursue basic research in the area of microfabrication of medical devices; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Michael Reed and Mr. Whye-Kei Lye have equity interests in Setagon, Inc., which exceed 3 percent; and

WHEREAS, the School of Engineering and Applied Science's research agreement with Setagon, Inc., would thereby expose Mr. Reed and Mr. Lye to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(c) (7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interests of Mr. Michael Reed and Mr. Whye-Kei Lei are approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into a research agreement with Setagon, Inc., to conduct research on the microfabrication of medical devices to prevent restenosis in cardiac patients; provided, as required by the law, Mr. Reed and Mr. Lye each file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in Setagon, Inc., the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the dean and department chair vigilantly oversee application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST EXEMPTION (ALGLUTAMINE, LLC)
-------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the School of Medicine wishes to enter into sponsored research contracts with AlGlutamine, LLC, for developing glutamine derivatives to be used in oral hydration and nutrition therapy; and

WHEREAS, Richard Guerrant, M.D., and Timothy Macdonald, Ph.D., have disclosed in advance their equity interests of 22.82% and 19.02, percent, respectively, in AlGlutamine, LLC; and

WHEREAS, the University's entry into research agreements with AlGlutamine, LLC, would thereby expose Drs. Guerrant and Macdonald to violation of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act unless approved by the Board as permitted by §2.1-639.6(c)(7) of the Code of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the conflict of interest of Richard Guerrant, M.D., and Timothy Macdonald, Ph.D., is approved by the Board of Visitors in order to permit the University to enter into agreements with AlGlutamine, LLC, for research funding for the development of glutamine derivatives to be used in oral hydration and nutrition therapy; provided, as required by the law, Dr. Guerrant and Mr. Macdonald file the required annual disclosure statement of personal interests in AlGlutamine, LLC, the University files the required annual report concerning the contracts with the Secretary of the Commonwealth, and the relevant department chair vigilantly oversees application of University resources in the best interests of the University and in accordance with policy.

APPROVAL TO RENAME THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE TO THE THOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professorship in Architecture be renamed the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professorship in Architecture.

APPROVAL TO RENAME THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY TO THE THOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professorship in History be renamed the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Professorship in History.

APPROVAL TO RENAME THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION LECTURESHIP TO THE THOMAS JEFFERSON FOUNDATION LECTURESHIP
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Lectureship be renamed the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Lectureship.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE CAMPBELL HALL ADDITION
--------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that SMBW Architects, P.C. of Richmond, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Campbell Hall Addition project.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION, 1000 CAR PARKING STRUCTURE
-----------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Hartman Cox Architects of Washington, D.C., is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the 1000 car parking structure project to be built on Ivy Road.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR A TERM CONTRACT FOR SCHOOL OF MEDICINE LABORATORIES AND SUPPORT SPACES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that FPW Architects of Charlottesville is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for projects initiated under the term contract for School of Medicine laboratories and support spaces.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES, HOSPITAL EXPANSION
---------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated June 16, 2001, prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Hospital Expansion project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE FOUR FARM BUILDINGS AT BLANDY FARM
-----------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns a machine shed (FAACS Building Number: 207-8053), a feed barn (FAACS Building Number: 207-8055), a corncrib (FAACS Building Number: 2078057), and shade barn (FAACS Building Number: 207-8057) at Blandy Farm in Clarke County; and

WHEREAS, these structures are no longer needed and are in poor condition; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the removal of the buildings at Blandy Farm, 207-8053, 207-8055, and 207-8057, is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architecture Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required report regarding the buildings' removal is sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF THE 2001-2002 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2001-2002 Operating Budget for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors approves a short-term loan of up to $20 million for a term of nine years for the purpose of providing short-term financing associated with the Integrated Systems Project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute all necessary documents to affect the loan.

APPROVAL OF THE 2001-2002 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2001-2002 Operating Budget for the College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF THE 2001-2002 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the 2001-2002 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center, which includes a hospital room and ancillary service rate increase in a range of seven to fifteen percent based on market, is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2001-2002
-------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. The normal allocations, not to exceed $2.6 million for 2001-2002, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. The special distributions are not to exceed $1.2 million for 2001-2002. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets (see Attachment A for the 2001-2001 Pratt Fund Allocations).

APPROVAL OF POLICY ON SIGNATORY AUTHORITY
-----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board has traditionally delegated authority for signing certain contracts and other documents to designated University officials;

WHEREAS, the 1982 policy on delegated signatory authority requires updating as a result of title changes and the addition of a Vice President for Finance;

WHEREAS, the 1982 policy on signatory authority has been amended three times, and is difficult to understand; and

WHEREAS, the authority to sign contracts with the Virginia College Building Authority is an ongoing authority that should be included in the signatory authority policy;

RESOLVED that the Policy on Signatory Authority, shown as Attachment B is approved, and shall supercede all previous signatory authority resolutions and policies for the areas covered by the policy; and

RESOLVED that the President is authorized to sign the Policy on Signatory Authority and disseminate it as a University Policy. The President is also authorized, without prior Board approval, to make non-substantive updates and revisions to the Policy as required.

APPROVAL OF AUDIT SCHEDULE
--------------------------

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 20012002, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF THE APPOINTMENTS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Paul D. Buchanan be appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board, to replace Mr. Thomas K. Henritze, for a term ending June 30, 2005; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Messrs. Kenneth P. Asbury, Joe Tom Howard, and Don R. Pippin be re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for a term ending June 30, 2005, in accordance with the terms of its bylaws.

AUTHORITY TO APPROVE CERTAIN CAPITAL OUTLAY PROJECTS AND INCREASES IN THE SIZE AND SCOPE OF CURRENT PROJECTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Section 4-4.01 m of the 2000 Appropriation Act permits the Governor to grant approval for a capital outlay project if the project is required to meet an emergency situation and in other specified situations; and

WHEREAS, Section 4-4.01 k of the 2000 Appropriation Act permits the Governor to increase the size and scope of a capital outlay project in an emergency situation and for other specified reasons; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors desires to authorize certain persons to approve requests to the Governor for capital outlay project authorization and increases in the size and scope of current projects;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors, upon the recommendation of the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, authorizes the Rector, with the concurrence of the chair of the Finance Committee and the chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, to approve the request to the Governor of initiation of a capital outlay project under Section 4-4.01 m of the 2000 Appropriation Act, and to approve a request to the Governor for authorization to increase the size and scope of a capital outlay project under Section 4-4.01 k of the 2000 Appropriation Act.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR GEORGE E. CULBERTSON
---------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, George E. Culbertson was one of the first graduates of The University of Virginia's College at Wise; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Culbertson returned to the College in 1970 to teach mathematics; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Culbertson, in the succeeding thirty years, has served his alma mater in a variety of ways, including registrar, associate dean, acting vice chancellor and dean, chief financial officer and dean; and

WHEREAS, most recently, Mr. Culbertson has been Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor, and Professor of Mathematics; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Culbertson has served the College for the last six months as Chancellor ad interim;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks George Culbertson for his years of devoted service to The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and in particular for the exemplary way in which he has led the College as Chancellor ad interim.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 2001 through April 30, 2001, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO NEGOTIATE AND EXECUTE TRANSACTIONS RELATED TO NON-ENDOWMENT BUSINESS VENTURES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, it is appropriate from time-to-time that the University purchase or sell an ownership interest in nonendowment business ventures; and

WHEREAS, it is in the economic best interest of the University that such transactions be handled on a timely basis;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized to negotiate the sale or purchase of stock or other evidences of ownership in nonendowment business ventures on such economic terms as he deems to be appropriate; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer be authorized, in consultation with the General Counsel, to negotiate and execute contracts and other documents, and to take such other actions, pertaining to the transactions described in this resolution as he deems necessary and appropriate to consummate such transactions; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that this authorization shall expire in twelve months from this date unless extended by action of the Board of Visitors.

2001-02 SALARY FOR CHANCELLOR STEVEN H. KAPLAN
----------------------------------------------

Chancellor Steven H. Kaplan

As of 6/25/01

State

$109,663

Local supplement

70,337

Total Salary

$180,000

RESOLVED that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approve the following 2001-2002 salary for the Chancellor of The University of Virginia's College at Wise:

COMMITMENT TO CHANCELLOR STEVEN H. KAPLAN FOR THE COST OF EDUCATION OF SILIA, NOEMI, AND JANINA KAPLAN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the commitment to Steven H. Kaplan, Chancellor of The University of Virginia's College at Wise, for the cost of education of his children, Silia, Noemi and Janina Kaplan; the details of this commitment are enumerated in Attachment C of these Minutes.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Promotions of Chairholders(c) Change of Title of Chairholders(d) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders(e) Resignation of ChairholderPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF MR. GENE D. BLOCK AS VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOSTELECTION OF MS. YOKE SAN L. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR FINANCEELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM W. HARMON AS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTELECTION OF MS. PATRICIA M. LAMPKIN AS INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRSELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUSELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATHCHANGE IN THE CHAIR ELECTION OF DR. MARK E. WILLIAMS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders were approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons were promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that Mr. Gene D. Block was elected Vice President and Provost, for five years, effective August 25, 2001.

RESOLVED that Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds was elected Vice President for Finance, for five years, effective May 25, 2001, at an annual salary of $205,000.

RESOLVED that Mr. William W. Harmon was elected Senior Vice President, for five years, effective June 25, 2001.

RESOLVED that Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin was elected Interim Vice President for Student Affairs, for one year, effective June 25, 2001.

RESOLVED that the following person was elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following person was elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

Dr. Richard B. Hays, Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, died March 18, 2001. Dr. Hays had been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1979.

RESOLVED that the chair election of Dr. Mark E. Williams as Ward K. Ensminger Associate Professor of Geriatric Medicine, effective March 25, 2000, and continuing as Professor of Internal Medicine, without term, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of April 7, 2001, be changed to read as follows:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons were promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons received the salary indicated:

Mr. Robert K. Rhea, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, effective March 16, 2001, to accept another position.

Mr. Steven H. Kaplan as Chancellor, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, for five years, effective June 25, 2001.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 9:35 a.m.

The following resolutions, which do not require action by the full Board, were adopted by Board Committees which have met since the previous meeting of the full Board, April 6-7, 2001. They are listed here as a matter of record.

Meeting of the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), May 30, 2001:

Approved an investment of up to $25 million with Glenview Capital.

Approved these actions taken by Board committees:

JOINT PLAN OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE AND THE STUDENT AFFAIRS & ATHLETICS COMMITTEERESOLUTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Joint meeting of the Finance Committee and the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, June 1, 2001:

At its meeting in April, the BOV adopted a resolution assigning to the Finance Committee and the Student Affairs & Athletics Committee joint responsibility for evaluating the 2020 Task Force Report on Athletics.

The Chairs of the two Committees have developed the following plan of action, which has been approved by the Rector and the Executive Vice President:

Approved by Board of Visitors' Committees

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors received the report of the Task Force on Athletics in April 2001 (the Report); and

WHEREAS, the Student Affairs and Athletics and Finance Committees of the Board (the Joint Committees) express their appreciation for the outstanding and innovative work of the Task Force; and

WHEREAS, the report has focused the attention of the University community on the important challenges facing intercollegiate athletics programs across the nation; and

WHEREAS, the Joint Committees have developed a Joint Work Plan and have conducted a preliminary review of the findings and recommendations included in the Report; and

WHEREAS, the Joint Committees conclude that they wish to preserve the Board's longstanding commitment to both academic excellence and excellence in all intercollegiate sports at the University;

RESOLVED that the Joint Work Plan presented to the Joint Committees is hereby approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Joint Committees ask the President to develop options to the recommendations in the Report including the establishment of endowments and other fundraising for non-revenue sports, that will ensure the long-term financial stability of the intercollegiate athletics programs at the University without tiering or eliminating any sports; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Joint Committees ask that the President provide on a regular basis reports to the Joint Committees on the Administration's progress in developing such options.

Approved by the Board of Visitors' Finance and Student Affairs and Athletics Committees

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: June 15-16, 2001

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

ATTACHMENT A2001-2002 PRATT FUND ALLOCATIONSARTS AND SCIENCES — $1,300,000SCHOOL OF MEDICINE — $1,300,000 ($126,209 unallocated at this time.)FELLOWSHIPS AND SCHOLARSHIPSSPECIAL DISTRIBUTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biology — With the May 2001 allocation of $325,000, the Biology Department has a basic account balance of $325,000. The department proposes to allocate $180,405 to fund fellowships, to support entering Ph.D. students, to provide two months of summer support for eight students, to cover tuition and fees (in part or in full) of nine students and to supplement two presidential fellowships. The department proposes to allocate $79,595 to provide partial support of the salaries of the director and associate director of the Mountain Lake program and to support a joint hire in a new field made by the departments of Biology and Physics. The department requests a transfer of $36,139 from the Biology Pratt Equipment to Biology Faculty Salaries. Finally, the department requests that $65,000 be transferred to the Arts and Sciences Pratt Special Account in partial repayment of the funds made available in 1998-1999 in support of the hiring of Janis Antonovics as the Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology.

Chemistry — The Chemistry Department proposes that $100,000 be allocated to provide fellowship support and tuition differentials to continuing graduate students and initial fellowship support to eleven graduate students. The department requests that an additional $15,000 be allocated to provide matching funds required for a National Science Foundation (NSF) summer undergraduate research award. The department proposes to allocate $80,000 to provide summer salary for new professors Lin Pu, Sergei Egerov, James Landers and Milton Brown; summer salary to the director of the Research Experience for Undergraduates program, James Demas; summer salary for two co-directors of the NSF's Integrated Graduate Education Research Training program, Ian Harrison and Brooks Pate; and summer salary for Robert Bryan for laboratory experiment development. The department requests that $25,000 be transferred to the Arts and Sciences Pratt Special Account in partial repayment of the funds made available in 1998-1999 in support of the hiring of Janis Antonovics as the Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology.

The department proposes to allocate $75,000, which in combination with Equipment Trust Fund (ETF) reimbursements, will be used for faculty start-up commitments and equipment matching commitments. The remaining $30,000 is to be left in the basic account, reducing the deficit from ($60,000) to ($30,000) in accordance with the agreement approved by the Arts & Sciences Pratt Committee in May 1992, by which the department will reduce the basic account deficit by at least $30,000 yearly until the basic account has again achieved a positive balance (no later than 2003-2004).

Mathematics — The Mathematics Department proposes to allocate $154,076 for the following purposes: $121,076 to provide partial academic year salary and one month of summer wages for five Whyburn instructors in 2001-2002, and $33,000 for salary support for post doctoral visitor and short term visiting faculty. The department proposes to allocate $12,000 to purchase additional and replacement equipment for the department's computer laboratories. The department also proposes to allocate $133,924 for graduate fellowships. Finally, the department requests that $25,000 be transferred to the Arts and Sciences Pratt Special Account in partial repayment of the funds made available in 1998-1999 in support of the hiring of Janis Antonovics as the Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology.

Physics — The Physics Department proposes to allocate $44,820 to provide salary for a postdoctoral fellow in support of new Assistant Professor Despina Louca. The department proposes to allocate $255,180 to provide startup funds for equipment for Professor Gordon Cates and the new Condensed Matter faculty hire. Finally, the department requests that $25,000 be transferred to the Arts and Sciences Pratt Special Account in partial repayment of the funds made available in 1998-1999 in support of the hiring of Janis Antonovics as the Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology.

Centralized Research Support Facilities are supported predominantly by user fees. The Pratt endowment subsidy keeps costs low and provides financial stability.

The Biomolecular Research and Mass Spectrometry Facility provides a wide array of highly specialized services including protein and DNA sequencing, peptide synthesis, amino acid and carbohydrate analyses, X-ray film processing, protein chemistry and mass spectrometry. The in-house availability of these services, which require expensive, sophisticated instrumentation and operating expertise, has contributed significantly to the spectrum of ongoing investigation at the University as well as reducing research costs. The facility's 2001-2002 operating budget is approximately $1,323,292. Pratt funds ($155,107) award for 2001-2002 will subsidize user fees and allow for the development of new techniques related to the provided services.

The Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorter (FACS) Facility is a research support facility providing investigators with the technology to study biological processes at the single cell level as well as isolating specific cell populations for detailed investigation. The Facility also provides advanced flow cytometric analyses. Researchers from more than 20 University departments rely on this facility, and individual laboratories equipped with similar instrumentation consult with FACS Center staff on problems or receive instruction in using their equipment. As with other core facilities, the FACS Facility generates a portion of its $126,176 operating budget through user fees. Pratt support will be $15,542.

Small Animal Multimodality Imaging Core (SAMMIC) was established in 1991 to provide magnetic resonance imaging capabilities for biomedical applications. It handles samples larger than those suitable for the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) facility in Chemistry and smaller than the clinical facility, and thus is suitable for small animals and other research applications. A growing number of investigators in clinical departments as well as engineering and related fields are applying this technology to their research. In addition, the facility provides instruction for students, fellows and faculty in the basic theoretical and practical aspects of magnetic resonance imaging and related techniques. Pratt funds ($20,000) are awarded to subsidize the lab's operating budget ($81,575) in 2001-2002; user fees and departmental funds make up the balance.

The Tissue Culture Facility began as a Diabetes Center service, but has become an important service for the wider medical school research community. It provides custom services as well as support services to meet the need for cell culture and growth media. The budget for the facility for 2001-2002 is projected to be $271,357, with $28,731 coming from the Pratt endowment.

Tissue Procurement Facility As the Health System becomes increasingly focused on translational research, the availability of specific human tissues for research purposes becomes increasingly important. This facility provides for protocol-driven collection of diseased and normal tissue, and the storage, culturing, analysis and distribution of these materials. The Pratt endowment provides $20,632.

Transgenic Mouse Core Facility This core facility was established in 1992 to support genetics research. The facility is equipped to produce transgenic and gene knockout mice for use in studies of normal gene function and altered gene expression as well as in developing animal models for human diseases. It is a multi-user core facility with an operating budget of $208,898 in 2001-2002 Pratt funds ($28,684) are awarded as a subsidy to enhance the availability of this important technology to investigators throughout the University.

The Centralized Electron Microscope Core facility continues to provide excellent service to a substantial number of investigators throughout the School of Medicine. It offers unique facilities that include two transmission electron microscopes, a scanning electron microscope and a confocal microscope. In addition, the Core provides expertise in the preparation of a wide variety of types of samples to be used with these microscopes. It has maintained a strong user base for over 20 years and has an excellent record of cost recovery. In year 2001-2002 this is projected to be approximately 85 percent. In addition to the Pratt contribution ($37,816) for the overall operating costs of the core, a one-time expenditure of $72,274 is provided for purchase of a new ultraviolet laser. This is an important instrumentation upgrade to a machine that is now eight years old, but with this upgrade will be perfectly functional for many additional years.

A new core facility, the Mouse Genetics Core, will be initiated. It will be directed by Marcia McDuffie, M.D. The goal of this core is to provide expertise and facilities for the manipulation of the genetic background of mice that have been genetically engineered through the University's transgenic and knock-out mouse facility, or have been provided to University investigators from other sources. This initiative represents an expansion of an activity that has functioned for several years as a portion of an National Institutes of Health (NIH)-sponsored program project in systemic lupus erythematosus. The Core Facility will interface closely with the Transgenic Mouse Core and the Biomolecular Resource Core. The initial establishment of this core will begin with a Pratt commitment of $50,000.

Graduate Research Assistantships funded by the Pratt allocation are an important component of the school's research training program in the basic medical sciences. Students are compensated during the final years of their training, when primarily engaged in individual research projects. In addition, students receive support while on summer research rotations. The Pratt funds allocation of $245,000 represents approximately 13 percent of the 2001-2002 total program budget of $1.9 million.

Postdoctoral Fellowship Support The major recipients are expected to be postdoctoral fellows in the basic sciences that have received peer-reviewed external fellowships, which need supplementation to bring salary support to a competitive level. These supplements will be administered through the office of the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies. Support was awarded at $24,000 for the first year, with funding for the second year rising to $48,000, $72,000 for 2000-2001 and $72,000 for 2001-2002. No further increments in this amount are anticipated.

$428,005 will be provided for research training to support the M.D./Ph.D. Program. This program plays a vital role in the School of Medicine by providing future physicians with extensive research training that shapes their subsequent careers. This program had been funded by NIH for 21 years and experienced a funding hiatus. The program will again receive NIH funding with a phasing-in period, and will therefore continue to need Pratt funding for the next several years. This support will maintain this valuable program until external support is established.

The School of Medicine requests a special distribution from the Pratt fund in the amount of $200,000 in each of three years beginning in 2001-2002 to support in the hiring of a critical faculty member in the field of combinatorial chemistry —- a joint appointment in the Departments of Chemistry and Pharmacology.

ATTACHMENT BUNIVERSITY POLICY ON SIGNATORY AUTHORITY1. Authority of President, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Vice President for Finance and Assistant Vice President for Finance to Execute Certain Documents and Contracts2. Delegation3. Authority to Execute Certain Documents and Contracts With the Prior Approval of the Board of Visitors.4. Approval and Reporting to the Board of Visitors5. Authority to sign contracts with the Virginia College Building Authority for Leased Equipment.6. Authority of the Secretary and Assistant Secretary of the Board of Visitors7. Rescission of Prior Signatory Policies
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (who is an Officer of the Board) and Vice President for Finance of the University are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, subject to the limitations in Paragraph 3 hereof, to execute in the name of and on behalf of the University any or all documents in whatever form and for whatever purpose, including, but not limited to, the following:

Deeds, leases, contracts, certificates, receipts including gift receipts, deeds of trust, promissory notes, bonds, checks, tax returns and reports, claims for refund, releases, waivers, bills of sale, stock certificates, proxies, security agreements, financing statements, affidavits, pleadings and responses to interrogatories.

Such employees are authorized to execute any or all of such documents which they, jointly or separately, determine in their sole discretion should be executed in the best interest of the University, and such discretion may be exercised without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any Committee thereof, except that such employees may only execute the documents specified in Paragraph 3 with the prior approval of the Board of Visitors, or the Executive Committee thereof, and shall execute such documents as directed by such Board or Committee.

The President, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President for Finance of the University are hereby authorized, jointly and separately, to delegate to other University employees any or all of the authority to execute any documents described in Paragraph 1, above, subject to the following:

Delegations by the Assistant Vice President for Finance prior to the effective date of this policy are hereby ratified and continue in effect until amended or rescinded by the President, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer or the Vice President for Finance.

With the prior approval of the Board of Visitors, or the Executive Committee thereof, The President, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Vice President for Finance are authorized to execute in the name of and on behalf of the University, the following documents:

The President, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President for Finance are authorized to approve the following types of transactions and report them to the Board of Visitors at its next meeting following the action:

The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and the Vice President for Finance are authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the Board of Visitors, such future leases in substantially the form of the 1994 Lease with such changes, insertions or omissions as may be approved by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer or the Vice President for Finance, whose approval shall be evidenced exclusively by the execution and delivery of such future leases and:

The Secretary and the Assistant Secretary of the Board of Visitors are authorized, jointly and separately, to affix the corporate seal of the University to any or all of the documents described in this Signatory Policy, to attest such seal and to execute certificates concerning the continued effectiveness of this or any other resolution of the Board, or any amendment thereto, and such authority may be exercised, jointly or separately, in their sole discretion without any necessity of prior approval, or ratification, by the Board of Visitors or any committee thereof.

The above policy supercedes the following Board resolutions on signatory authority:

University Policy on Signatory Authority adopted by the Board of Visitors on June 16, 2001.

ATTACHMENT CCOMMITMENT TO CHANCELLOR STEVEN H. KAPLAN FOR THE COST OF EDUCATION OF SILIA, NOEMI, AND JANINA KAPLAN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The University of Virginia's College at Wise or one of its related foundations will pay for the college educations of Silia, Noemi and Janina Kaplan. Payments will be limited to four (4) years of undergraduate study for each individual, or until receipt of a baccalaureate degree, whichever is sooner. Payments for each child will be equal to the "estimated costs" (excluding travel expenses) for an in-state undergraduate student at the University of Virginia as published in the Undergraduate Record or similar official document of the University and used by the University of Virginia's Office of Student Financial Services in financial aid calculations. The amount provided will cover in-state tuition and required fees, books and supplies, room and board and an allowance for personal expenses. If any child elects to attend college outside the Commonwealth of Virginia, the amounts calculated (as specified above) for attendance at the University of Virginia will be paid to the college or university of choice. These amounts will be paid so long as Mr. Kaplan is employed full-time as Chancellor by the University of Virginia's College at Wise at the beginning of the semester for which payment is to be made.
