---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2002'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 12-13, 2002
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met in Retreat Friday, July 12th, and Saturday, July 13th, 2002, at Upper Brandon in Prince George County. With few exceptions, the meetings were conducted in Open Session and the Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, presided.

In addition to the Rector, Mesdames Holland and Twohy, and Messrs. Bliley, Crutchfield, Farrell, Glazer, Goodwin, Greer, Kington, Pippin, Rainey, Ross, Saunders, Vaughan and Lovelace were present (Mrs. Holland on July 13th only).

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Ms. Amy D. Cronin, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes. John Jeffries and Albert Turnbull were present on the morning of the 13th, Ms. Louise Dudley was present on the 13th, and Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., and R. Edward Howell dined with the Board on the evening of July 12th but did not participate in any of the sessions.

The formal sessions of the Retreat began at 8:05 p.m., in Open Session, on July 12th. After adopting the following motion, however, the Board went into Executive Session at 8:07 p.m.:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and consult with legal counsel on applicable law, the appointment and performance of Board officers, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

After a five minute recess, the Board resumed in Open Session at 9:55 p.m., and met until 10:45 p.m., when it recessed for the evening.

After approving the following motions the next morning at 8:35, the Board resumed its meeting in Executive Session which lasted until 11:10.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss acquisition of real property for University purposes, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's bargaining and negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss with counsel the legality of University admissions procedures and a faculty grievance appeal, and be advised by counsel on pending litigation, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

At 11:10, after voting the necessary certification of matters discussed in Executive Session, the Board resumed in Open Session until it recessed for lunch at 12:30 p.m.

There was a five minute meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee (see Minutes of the meeting of the Building and Grounds Committee, July 12-13, 2002) at 1:10, after which the full Board met, in Open Session, to consider several resolutions (see the separate Minutes of that portion of the meeting).

The Board resumed its Retreat, in Open Session, at 1:20 p.m., and continued until 2:50 p.m., when, on motion, it adjourned.

There is attached to these Minutes a listing of the topics considered by the Board at the Retreat.

AGG:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAMeeting Date: July 12-13, 2002CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from considered in closed session.

ATTACHMENTBOARD OF VISITORS' RETREATFriday, July 12, 2002 5:30 — 10:25 p.m. Saturday, July 13, 2002 8:30 a.m. — 2:35 p.m. Upper Brandon Plantation Spring Grove, VirginiaSCHEDULE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, JULY 12

8:00

Acquisition of PropertyEXECUTIVE SESSION

8:30

Consideration of the Appointment and Performance of Board OfficersEXECUTIVE SESSION

9:15

The Size of the UniversityOPEN SESSION

9:45

Auditing at the University: How it Differs from Business Audits; Are We in Compliance with the Law?OPEN SESSION

10:15

Report by the Secretary on Summer Orientation and Other MattersOPEN SESSION

10:25

Recess for the evening

SATURDAY, JULY 13

8:30

Discussion of Admissions with the Legal CounselEXECUTIVE SESSION

10:30

Litigation Report by the Legal Advisor and General Counsel, and Report on a Faculty Grievance Appeal EXECUTIVE SESSION

RETREAT SCHEDULE

SATURDAY, JULY 13 — continued

11:00

A Miscellaney of Items by the PresidentOPEN SESSION a. Comments on the President's Annual Report to the Boardb. Update on 2020 Initiativesc. The Use of Graduate Students as Instructors in Introductory Classesd. Report on Legislation

12:00

The Relationship of the Foundations to the UniversityOPEN SESSION

12:30

Break

1:00

State of Athletics and Discussion of Athletics ScholarshipsOPEN SESSION

1:45

The Functions of the Committees of the Board

2:30

Business Session to Approve Proposed Legislative AmendmentsOPEN SESSION

2:35

Adjourn
