---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2003'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 3, 2003
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 3:30 p.m., on Thursday, April 3, 2003, in the Lower West Oval Room of the Rotunda to elect a Rector and Vice Rector; William H. Goodwin, Jr., Rector pro tempore, presided according to the provisions of the manual of the Board of Visitors specifying the procedures to be followed in the election of a Rector. All Members of the Board were present save Mr. Thompson and Dr. Vaughan.

After the following motion, the Board went into Executive Session at 3:35 p.m.:

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate specific candidates for appointment to the office of Rector and Vice Rector, as provided for in Section 2.2- 3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board approved the following motion and resumed in Open Session at 3:50 p.m.:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

Again following the procedures specified in the Manual, the Rector pro tempore directed the Secretary to conduct the election.

The Secretary opened the floor for nominations for Rector and Vice Rector. Mr. Glazer nominated Mr. Rainey for Rector and Mr. Farrell for Vice Rector. His nomination was seconded and there being no further nominations, the Secretary called for the vote.

Mr. Rainey was elected Rector and Mr. Farrell Vice Rector and the Secretary announced the results to the Rector pro tempore. The Rector pro tempore passed the gavel to the Rector and the meeting was adjourned at 3:55 p.m.
