---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2003'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 31, 2003

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

April 15, 2003 MEMORANDUM
-------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Terence P. Ross

Susan Y. Dorsey

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Charles L. Glazer

Warren M. Thompson

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Mark J. Kington

Georgia M. Willis

Lewis F. Payne

John O. Wynne

John R. M. Rodney

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of January 31,2003

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of January 31, 2003, should be corrected as follows:

1\. The text of the resolution establishing the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship in Business Administration, which appears on page 6315 of the Minutes, should be corrected to delete "Jr." when referring to William C. Killgallon, son of the late William C. Killgallon, Sr. Thus, the first line of the resolution should read "WHEREAS, Martin L. Killgallon and William C. Killgallon....." etc.

2\. On page 6318, after the resolution naming the C. Ray Smith Allumni Hall at the Darden School, the following paragraph should be inserted:

MEMORANDUM April 15, 2003
-------------------------

AGG:lah

Copies to:

Mr. John T. Casteen, III

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

"The President reported that Room 7014 in Jordan Hall has been named the Wagner Conference Room in memory of Dr. Robert R. Wagner. Dr. Wagner, who died in "September, 2001, was the founder of the modern Department of Microbiology. He was a most distinguished and beloved physician, teacher and researcher. Room 7014 was his office for many years.

"This naming does not require action by the Board of Visitors and is reported here as a matter of record."

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS January 31-February 1, 2003
------------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Resolution to Approve Additional Action Items

6308

Approval of Revisions to the Manual

6309

Resolution to Approve Additional Action Item

6312

Resolution Commending Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy

6312

Establishment of the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship in Business Administration

6315

Establishment of the Leslie E. Grayson Professorship in Business Administration

6315

Establishment of the David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professorships in Law

6316

Renaming of the James Madison Professorship in Law; the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law; and the James Monroe Professorship in Law

6317

Approval of the Naming of the Abbott Center at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration

6317

Naming of the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration

6318

Approval of the Disposition of the 10½ Street Right-of-Way Property from University of Virginia to Tenth and Main LLC

6319

Approval of the Disposition of the Norton Properties Acquired from the Estate of Ms. Virginia Irene Meador to the Norton United Methodist Church

6320

Approval to Offer a New Graduate Degree Program: Master of Public Health (MPH) in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences

6321

PAGE

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation Located at the Cavalier Inn at the Intersection of Emmet Street and Ivy Road

6321

Approval of Edgar Allan Poe Historical Marker Installation

6321

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Cocke Hall Renovation Project

6322

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Rouss Hall Renovation and Commerce School Project

6322

Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Bice House Renovation Project

6322

Approval to Remove the Observatory Hill Dining Hall and the Tree House Dining Facility

6322

Approval to Remove the Dell Garden Structure

6323

Approval of Recommendation for Disposition of the Cole Memorial Fund

6324

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2003-2004

6326

Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Authorization of Issuance of Up to $200,000,000 of General Revenue Pledge Bonds

6330

Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Authorization of Issuance of Up to $100,000,000 of Commercial Paper

6334

Approval of a Revised Budget and Funding Plan for the South Lawn Project

6336

Memorial Resolution for Mr. Champ Clark

6337

Election of Mr. Eugene V. Fife to the Miller Center Governing Council

6337

PAGE

Replacement of Highway Historical Marker

6337

Commending Student Accomplishments

6338

Process for Approving Medical Center Market-Based Compensation Adjustments

6338

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6339

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Elections of Chairholders

6343

Change of Title of Chairholders

6344

Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

6344

Retirement of Chairholder

6345

Resignation of Chairholder

6345

Promotions

6346

Special Salary Actions

6346

Resignations

6352

Change in the Hire Date in the Retirement of Ms. Linda R. Davies

6353

Change in the Date of the Retirement of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull

6354

Appointments

6354

Change in the Appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Plank

6354

Re-Appointments

6355

Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Vice President for Student Affairs

6356

Re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

6356

Election of Professor Emeritus

6356

Change in the Date of the Emeritus Election for Mr. Albert R. Turnbull

6356

Deaths

6356

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

6357

Special Salary Actions

6358

Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors

6359

Resolution Commending Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

6359

Resolution Commending Mr. T. Keister Greer

6360

PAGE

Resolution Commending the Rector

6361

Report on Actions of the Executive Committee

6363

PAGEResolution to Approve Additional Action Items6308Approval of Revisions to the Manual6309Resolution to Approve Additional Action Item6312Resolution Commending Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy6312Establishment of the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship in Business Administration6315Establishment of the Leslie E. Grayson Professorship in Business Administration6315Establishment of the David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professorships in Law6316Renaming of the James Madison Professorship in Law; the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law; and the James Monroe Professorship in Law6317Approval of the Naming of the Abbott Center at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration6317Naming of the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration6318Approval of the Disposition of the 10½ Street Right-of-Way Property from University of Virginia to Tenth and Main LLC6319Approval of the Disposition of the Norton Properties Acquired from the Estate of Ms. Virginia Irene Meador to the Norton United Methodist Church6320Approval to Offer a New Graduate Degree Program: Master of Public Health (MPH) in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences6321 PAGEApproval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation Located at the Cavalier Inn at the Intersection of Emmet Street and Ivy Road6321Approval of Edgar Allan Poe Historical Marker Installation6321Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Cocke Hall Renovation Project6322Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Rouss Hall Renovation and Commerce School Project6322Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Bice House Renovation Project6322Approval to Remove the Observatory Hill Dining Hall and the Tree House Dining Facility6322Approval to Remove the Dell Garden Structure6323Approval of Recommendation for Disposition of the Cole Memorial Fund6324Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2003-20046326Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Authorization of Issuance of Up to $200,000,000 of General Revenue Pledge Bonds6330Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Authorization of Issuance of Up to $100,000,000 of Commercial Paper6334Approval of a Revised Budget and Funding Plan for the South Lawn Project6336Memorial Resolution for Mr. Champ Clark6337Election of Mr. Eugene V. Fife to the Miller Center Governing Council6337 PAGEReplacement of Highway Historical Marker6337Commending Student Accomplishments6338Process for Approving Medical Center Market-Based Compensation Adjustments 6338 Faculty Personnel ActionsElections6339Actions Relating to ChairholdersElections of Chairholders6343Change of Title of Chairholders6344Special Salary Actions of Chairholders6344Retirement of Chairholder6345Resignation of Chairholder6345Promotions6346Special Salary Actions6346Resignations6352Change in the Hire Date in the Retirement of Ms. Linda R. Davies6353Change in the Date of the Retirement of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull6354Appointments6354Change in the Appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Plank6354Re-Appointments6355Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Vice President for Student Affairs6356Re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer6356Election of Professor Emeritus6356Change in the Date of the Emeritus Election for Mr. Albert R. Turnbull6356Deaths6356The University of Virginia's College at Wise Elections6357Special Salary Actions6358Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors6359Resolution Commending Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland6359Resolution Commending Mr. T. Keister Greer6360 PAGEResolution Commending the Rector6361Report on Actions of the Executive Committee6363

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS January 31-February 1, 2003
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:35 a.m., Friday, January 31, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda;John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Mark J. Kington, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., and H. Timothy Lovelace, Jr., were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector asked for a motion approving the Minutes of the October meeting of the Board. A resolution of approval was moved, seconded, and adopted.

The Rector reported on actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meetings of October 18, November 26, December 9, 2002 (the resolutions adopted at those meetings are listed at the end of these Minutes; see also the separate Minutes of those meetings of the Executive Committee).

The Rector asked for approval to consider the addition of three items to the Agenda: one to be considered by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, one by the Educational Policy Committee and one by the full Board. By the following resolution, the Board approved the consideration of these items.

RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEMS
---------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

\- - - - - - - - - -

The Rector then asked for consideration of two resolutions passed by the Executive Committee the day before. The first resolution shortened the term of the Rector from four years to two years, creating the position of Vice Rector who would automatically succeed the Rector, and except for the election to be held at the next Board meeting in April, would begin the Rector's term on July 1st. The Vice Rector would serve on the Executive Committee with the Rector, thus increasing the total membership of that committee to six. All of these changes to the Manual would require changes to the Code of Virginia by the General Assembly. The resolution suggested by the Executive Committee also makes minor adjustments to the Manual which do not call for changes to the Code.

A companion resolution authorizes the University to seek emergency legislation at this Session of the General Assembly in order that the changes to the Manual might be in effect by the April meeting of the Board, the meeting at which the Rector and Vice Rector would be elected.

On motion, the two resolutions were approved.

APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO THE MANUAL
-----------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors approves changes to the Manual of the Board to shorten the term of Rector to two years; to create the office of Vice Rector who would serve for two years, concurrent with the term of the Rector, and who would succeed the Rector after two years; to set the date of the first election of the Rector and Vice Rector, under these terms, for the April 2003 meeting of the Board of Visitors; to set subsequent elections,beginning in 2005, for that meeting of the full Board held closest to June 30th; and to establish the term of office for both positions to commence in April 2003, and to end on June 30, 2005, with terms after that date to run from July 1, for two years to June 30.

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Committee approves conforming changes to the Manual to reflect the changes hereinabove authorized.

FURTHER, all changes to the Manual enumerated in this Resolution are shown in Attachment A.

RESOLVED, the University is authorized to take such other and further action as may be necessary or appropriate to seek in the current session of the General Assembly an amendment to Chapter 9, Sections 23-74 and 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, consistent with the changes approved in the attached Resolution.

The Rector then asked the President to give his customary report.

The President told the Board about meetings with alumni groups around the country in preparation for the next Capital Campaign, as well as meetings with alumni groups in the state to discuss the University's budget situation. He mentioned several honors and awards that have come to members of the University community: a Mitchell Scholarship, the first awarded to a student or alumnus of the University, to Mr. John Kiess, who took a B.A. from the College in 2001; the Public Service Group Achievement Award (from NASA) to Mr. Swap and his research team in the Department of Environmental Sciences; the appointment of Mr. Zelikow, Director of the Miller Center, as Executive Director of the federal 9/11 Commission; and the Mellon Distinguished Achievement Award to Mr. McGann of the English Department.

The President noted the death, on December 21, 2002, of Mr. Champ Clark, former Member of the Board of Visitors and former member of the faculty, and he paid special recognition to the four Members of the Board whose terms expire this winter — Ms. Twohy and Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Ackerly and Greer.

Turning to his usual report on gifts and grants, the President summarized gifts made between the beginning of the current fiscal year in July and November 30, 2002. Private giving in this period was $140.7million, an increase of $57.4 million or over 68% from the same period last year. Pledges and other commitments bring the total to $160.9 million.

The President noted the bequest of $111 million of the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, who died on June 8, 2002. The bequest is allocated as a $47.2 million deferred gift, to be realized in 25 years; $34.8 million to the School of Law; $20.3 million to the School of Medicine; $5.8 million to the Athletics Department; and $3.1 million to fulfill a pledge to the University Library. He noted other gifts and pledges, including an anonymous $10 million pledge to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation for its building campaign.

On motion, the Gifts and Grants Report was accepted by the Board.

The meeting of the full Board was recessed at 9:10 a.m., for the meeting of the Audit Committee.

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 9:50 a.m.; all Members present at the earlier session were present.

The Rector introduced Mr. William de Jong, Director of the Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention in Boston; Mr. de Jong presented Mr. Casteen with the Center's first Presidents Leadership Grant Award. The award was made to commend, as Mr. de Jong said, the approach taken to addressing high-risk drinking at the University.

The Board recessed its meeting as the full Board at 10:05 a.m., for the meeting of the Finance Committee.

\- - - - - - - - - -

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 11:40 a.m., to hear a report from the President and Mr. Farrell on the progress of the University's legislative initiatives in the current Session of the General Assembly. The Board recessed at 12:00 noon for lunch.

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 1:20 p.m.; all Members present in the morning, with the addition of Messrs. Glazer and Ross, were present.

The Rector asked for a vote to consider an additional item not on the published Agenda. On motion, the following resolution was adopted.

RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEM
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of item to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

The Rector then proposed a resolution commending Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy whose second term as a Member expires at the end of February. On motion, the following resolution was approved:

RESOLUTION COMMENDING MS. ELIZABETH A. TWOHY
--------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Elizabeth Addington Twohy of Virginia Beach, a member of the first undergraduate class of the University to which women were admitted without restriction, took a B.S. in Commerce from the McIntire School in 1974; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy, after a year as a banker in Atlanta, returned to Virginia Beach and went to work for her family's company, Capital Concrete, Inc.; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy very quickly proved her worth and became President and General Manager of the company, as well as principal officer in several state and national trade associations; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy married Kevin Michaels, an alumnus of the Curry School, in 1977 and their oldest daughter, Merrick, took a B.A. from the College in 2002; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy's abilities as a competitive surfer are a matter of record and community pride in Virginia Beach; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1995 and reappointed by Governor Gilmore in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy has been an invaluable Member of the Board, respected and admired by her colleagues who have valued her wisdom and advice; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy has served as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee and as Chair of the Audit Committee, as well as a Member of the Executive Committee; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy's second term on the Board expires on February 28, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks its friend and valued colleague, Elizabeth Addington Twohy, for her devoted service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 1:25 p.m., for the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board at 1:40 p.m., in Open Session; all Members present at the earlier afternoon session were present. After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to review and discuss with General Counsel his confidential litigation report and to receive the

advice of legal counsel with respect to pending and probable litigation, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in closed session to review with legal counsel and the University administration purchase of real estate and related funding for road construction, and to evaluate negotiations concerning the disposition of University real estate for site development; where disclosure of these discussions at this time would adversely affect the University's bargaining position and negotiation strategy, in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (5), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 3:25 p.m., and after adopting the following motion certifying the legality of matters discussed in Executive Session, recessed for the meeting of the Committee on The University of Virginia's College at Wise:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the sessions earlier in the afternoon were present, save Ms. Twohy.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KILLGALLON OHIO ART PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Martin L. Killgallon and William C. Killgallon, Jr., alumni of the Darden School, have been generous benefactors of the University and of the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, William Killgallon, Jr., and Martin Killgallon are, respectively, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer of the Ohio Art Company in Bryan, Ohio; and

WHEREAS, the late William C. Killgallon, Sr., and the Ohio Art Company began the manufacture of the popular toy, "Etch a Sketch," in 1960; and

WHEREAS, William Killgallon, Jr., and Martin Killgallon have made a generous gift to establish a professorship at the Darden School in memory of their father;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship of Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and expresses its appreciation to Mr. William Killgallon, Jr., and Mr. Martin Killgallon for their generosity.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LESLIE E. GRAYSON PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Leslie E. Grayson, a native of Hungary and an alumnus of Oberlin College and the University of Michigan, joined the faculty of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in 1971; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson has been interested particularly in international business, holding teaching and consulting positions abroad and in so doing, establishing the reputation of the University overseas; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson helped establish and was the first director of the Darden School's joint MBA/MA degree program in East Asian studies and was the founding faculty advisor of the International Business Society; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson is known among his students as a superb teacher, one mark of which is the generosity of former students who have contributed to the establishment of a professorship in his honor; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson retired in 1998 as the Isidore Horween Research Professor of Business Administration and was elected Emeritus;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Leslie E. Grayson Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and thanks Mr. Grayson for his service to the University and the generous donors who made this chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID AND MARY HARRISON DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIPS IN LAW
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, an alumnus of the College and of the Law School, was an extraordinarily wise and generous benefactor of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison died on June 8, 2002, leaving $34.8million to the School of Law for the establishment of professorships; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison expressed the hope that the persons selected for these professorships not only be eminent in their fields but have "a demonstrated interest in and talent for the teaching of students;"

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes five chairs in the School of Law to be known as the David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professorships in Law. The remainder of the Harrison gift is to be used to augment the endowments supporting three existing professorships in the School of Law; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board, in taking these actions, pays tribute to the magnificent generosity of Mr. Harrison to the University of Virginia.

RENAMING OF THE JAMES MADISON PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW; THE JOHN BARBEE MINOR PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW; AND THE JAMES MONROE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the James Madison Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Professorship in Law, are the oldest endowed professorships in the School of Law; and

WHEREAS, the incomes from the endowments established to support these professorships are inadequate for the purposes for which they were set up; and

WHEREAS, the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County made a generous bequest to the School of Law for the support of professorships in the School;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors directs that $4.8 million of the Harrison bequest be divided equally and applied to the support of the James Madison Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Professorship in Law, thus providing 1.6 million for each chair; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the three professorships be renamed, respectively, the James Madison Distinguished Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Distinguished Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Distinguished Professorship in Law, with all of these professorships to continue to be held in the School of Law. In taking these actions, the Board expresses its profound gratitude for the generosity of David A. Harrison, III.

APPROVAL OF THE NAMING OF THE ABBOTT CENTER AT THE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Charles Cortez Abbott was the first Dean, and before that the principal organizer, of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Abbott was Dean when the Darden School opened in 1955 and continued in that position until his retirement in 1972; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Abbott died in 1986;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the new Center at the Darden School the Charles C. Abbott Center, and in so doing pays tribute to the memory and service to the University of Charles Cortez Abbott, and to the generosity of Mr. George David and the other donors who made the Center possible.

NAMING OF THE C. RAY SMITH ALUMNI HALL AT THE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, C. Ray Smith, a member of the second Darden class, joined the faculty of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in 1961; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith is the longest serving faculty member at the School and has taught virtually every living Darden alumnus; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith has given distinguished service to the Darden School and to the University, having been Chair of the University's Faculty Senate, Interim Dean of the Darden School three times, Executive Director of the Darden Foundation, and Tipton R. Snavely Professor of Business Administration, among many other positions; and

WHEREAS, the Darden School proposes to name the new wing east of the Darden Library, which houses a number of functions associated with alumni activities, in honor of Mr. Smith;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the new wing east of the Darden Library the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall and expresses it profound appreciation to Mr. Smith for his service to the Univeristy.

The board recessed at 4:30 p.m., for the day.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board, in Open Session, at 10:40 a.m., on Saturday, February 1, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the last afternoon session of January 31st, were present, save Mr. Ross, Dr. Vaughan and Mr. Lovelace.

The Board approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE 10½ STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY PROPERTY FROM UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO TENTH AND MAIN LLC
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, certain property and improvements ("10½ Street right- of-way") containing approximately 1,800 square feet, located adjacent to the east property line of the Stacey Hall property on West Main Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, was received from the City of Charlottesville on February 19, 2002, when the City closed a 120-foot long section of the 10½ Street right-of- way; and

WHEREAS, the University has determined that because of its topography and location this property is of no benefit to the University; and

WHEREAS, the Tenth and Main LLC has requested the transfer of the University's share of the right-of-way in exchange for access easement that will allow 1) University employees the right to use the walkways and other site amenities and 2) University vehicles access to the remaining section of the 10½ Street right-of-way and the north end of the Stacey Hall property;

RESOLVED that the disposition of the aforesaid property located adjacent to the east property line of Stacey Hall, which is located on West Main Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, consisting of approximately 1,800 square feet, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the disposal of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

APPROVAL OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE NORTON PROPERTIES ACQUIRED FROM THE ESTATE OF MS. VIRGINIA IRENE MEADOR TO THE NORTON UNITED METHODIST CHURCH
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, a 50 percent interest in certain property and improvements ("Norton Properties") containing approximately 7,500 square feet, located on Park Avenue in Norton, Virginia, and referred to as lots 21 and 22 in block 13 of Plat Four, Norton, Virginia, were designated for The University of Virginia's College at Wise in the will of Ms. Virginia Irene Meador; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Meador died on December 21, 1995; and

WHEREAS, the College has determined that because of their size and distance from the campus the lots are of nominal use; and

WHEREAS, the Norton United Methodist Church has offered to buy the lots for $10,000, which is $4,800 greater than their assessed value; and

WHEREAS, the College will receive $5,000 as its share of the sale proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the College would like to use the proceeds for student assistance needs either in the form of scholarships or loans;

RESOLVED that the disposition of the aforesaid property on Park Avenue in Norton, Virginia, consisting of approximately 7,500 square feet, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized to convey the property via quitclaim deed and to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the disposal of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

APPROVAL TO OFFER A NEW GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAM: MASTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH (MPH) IN THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Master of Public Health (MPH) be established in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS PROPERTY OWNED BY UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION LOCATED AT THE CAVALIER INN AT THE INTERSECTION OF EMMET STREET AND IVY ROAD
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated January 31, 2003, from the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for an electric power line for the Emmet Street Parking Structure across property owned by the Foundation located at the Cavalier Inn, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

APPROVAL OF EDGAR ALLAN POE HISTORICAL MARKER INSTALLATION
----------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Edgar Allan Poe enrolled at the University of Virginia on February 14, 1826, for one term; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Poe is recognized as one of the nation's important literary figures; and

WHEREAS, the University has preserved his room, #13 on the West Range, in his honor; and

WHEREAS, a marker on McCormick Road in the vicinity of the West Range would serve to further commemorate the achievements of this outstanding American writer;

RESOLVED that installation of a marker for Edgar Allan Poe is approved.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR COCKE HALL RENOVATION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the renovation of Cocke Hall are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that design review of this project will not be required and that the project is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ROUSS HALL RENOVATION AND COMMERCE SCHOOL PROJECT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Rouss Hall Renovation and Commerce School project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR BICE HOUSE RENOVATION PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Bice House Renovation project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that design review of this project will not be required and that the project is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE OBSERVATORY HILL DINING HALL AND THE TREE HOUSE DINING FACILITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns the Observatory Hill Dining Hall (FAACS Building Number: 207-0209) and the Tree House Dining Facility (FAACS Building Number: 207-0320) located at the intersection of McCormick and Alderman Roads; and

WHEREAS, a portion of the North Wing of the Observatory Hill Dining Hall must be demolished for the construction of the new Observatory Hill Dining Facility; and

WHEREAS, these structures will no longer be needed for dining functions once the new Observatory Hill Dining Facility has been completed; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED that the removal of these buildings (FAACS Building Numbers: 207-0209 and 207-0320) at the intersection of McCormick and Alderman Roads is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to determine 1) if the buildings should be saved to serve another function or 2) if they should be removed. If the decision is made for removal said officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE DELL GARDEN STRUCTURE
--------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns the Dell Garden Structure (FAACS Building Number: 207-0223) located at the east end of the Dell on the west side of Emmet Street directly opposite the Central Grounds Parking Garage; and

WHEREAS, this structure is no longer used and is in poor condition; and

WHEREAS, the site of the structure is needed for the Dell Storm Water project; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED that the removal of this structure (FAACS Building Number: 207-0223) located in the Dell is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATION FOR DISPOSITION OF THE COLE MEMORIAL FUND
--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, J. Marshall Cole (BA '25 and MA '27) created in 1962 a Charitable Remainder Trust, which quarterly provided net income to himself and his wife, Bertha Bates Cole, upon their lifetimes; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University received the principal and undistributed income from this trust on December 13, 2002, in the amount of $28,351.15; and

WHEREAS, according to the provisions of the trust, the principal and undistributed income shall be used to establish a fund known as The James Alfred Cole and Nannie Marshall Cole Memorial Fund; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors is required by condition of the trust to determine the use of the income and principal of this fund;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors delegates discretionary authority to the President of the University as to the disposition of The James Alfred Cole and Nannie Marshall Cole Memorial Fund.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2003-2004
-----------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 2002-2003 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$2,420

$100

4.13%

$150

10.33%

$2,670

Brown College

Double Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

McCormick Road

Double Room

$2,560

$90

3.88%

$150

10.34%

$2,560

Small Double Room

$2,120

$90

4.25%

$150

11.32%

$2,360

Single

$2,430

$100

4.12%

$150

10.29%

$2,680

Lawn

Small Single

$2,860

$110

3.85%

$150

9.09%

$3,120

Regular Single

$2,860

$110

3.85%

$150

9.09%

$3,120

Small Single (no fireplace)

$2,780

$110

3.96%

$150

9.35%

$3,040

Range

Regular Single

$2,860

$110

3.85%

$150

9.09%

$3,120

Crackerbox

Single Room

$2,860

$110

3.85%

$150

9.09%

$3,120

Mary Munford/ Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$2,420

$100

4.13%

$150

10.33%

$2,670

Single Room

$2,860

$110

3.85%

$150

9.09%

$3,120

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Small Double Room

$2,580

$100

3.88%

$150

9.69%

$2,830

Double Room

$2,740

$110

4.01%

$150

9.49%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,040

$120

3.95%

$150

8.88%

$3,310

Single Room (w/bath)

$3,190

$130

4.08%

$150

8.78%

$3,470

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$2,740

$110

4.01%

$150

9.49%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,040

$120

3.95%

$150

8.88%

$3,310

Twelve Month Rate: Single Room

$4,250

$170

4.00%

$150

7.53%

$4,570

Facility

Actual 2002-2004 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Hereford College

Double Room

$2,740

$110

4.01%

$150

9.49%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,000

$120

4.00%

$150

9.00%

$3,270

French House

Triple Room

$2,600

$100

3.85%

$150

9.62%

$2,850

Double Room

$2,740

$110

4.01%

$150

9.49%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,100

$120

3.87%

$150

8.71%

$3,370

German House

Single Room

$2,780

$110

3.96%

$150

9.35%

$3,040

Russia House

Double Room

$2,650

$150

5.66%

$150

11.32%

$2,950

Single Room

$3,030

$120

3.96%

$150

8.91%

$3,300

Spanish House

Double Room

$2,780

$70

2.52%

$150

7.91%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,100

$120

3.87%

$150

8.71%

$3,370

Monroe Lane House

Double Room

$2,740

$110

4.01%

$150

9.49%

$3,000

Single Room

$3,100

$120

3.87%

$150

8.71%

$3,370

APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,770

$110

3.97%

$150

9.39%

$3,030

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,670

$110

4.12%

$150

9.74%

$2,930

Bice House

Two Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,770

$110

3.97%

$150

9.39%

$3,030

Three Bedroom (double occupancy)

$2,670

$110

4.12%

$150

9.74%

$2,930

Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger)

Single

$3,090

$120

3.88%

$150

8.74%

$3,360

Large Single

$3,740

$150

4.01%

$150

8.02%

$4,040

Facility

Actual 2002-2005 Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

% Increase Before Improvement Fee

Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee

Total Percent Increase

Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session

Apartments - Family (per month)

Copeley Hill I & II

One Bedroom (furnished)

$573

$23

4.01%

$15

6.63%

$611

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$542

$22

4.06%

$15

6.83%

$579

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$630

$25

3.97%

$15

6.35%

$670

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$600

$24

4.00%

$15

6.50%

$639

Three Bedroom (furnished)

$682

$27

3.96%

$15

6.16%

$724

Three Bedroom (unfurnished)

$652

$26

3.99%

$15

6.29%

$693

University Gardens

One Bedroom (furnished)

$556

$22

3.96%

$15

6.83%

$594

One Bedroom (unfurnished)

$526

$21

3.99%

$15

7.03%

$563

Two Bedroom (furnished)

$600

$24

4.00%

$15

6.67%

$640

Two Bedroom (unfurnished)

$570

$23

4.04%

$15

6.84%

$609

College At Wise

McCrarayAsbury, Thompson, Henson, Martha Randolph, Townhouses,

$2,609

$78

3.00%

$0

3.00%

$2,687

Theme Housing

$3,014

$90

3.00%

$0

3.00%

$3,104

Notes:

1\. The rates for Copeley Hill I & II and University Gardens include utility charges and cable TV.2. A new rate for furnished apartments will go into effect as the units turn over.3. The University Gardens proposed monthly rate includes $1.05 to recover the monthly cost of providing data ports.4. The rate for a double room used as a single is 135 percent of the double rate.5. The rate for a double room used as a triple is 85 percent of the double rate.

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2003-2004 session:

MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES
--------------------------------------

Actual 2002

Proposed 2003 Rate

Percent Increase

BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

Persons 17 years & older

$513.00

$513.00

0.00%

Persons 10-16 years old

$308.00

$308.00

0.00%

Persons 9 yrs & younger

$164.00

$164.00

0.00%

SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

CABINS

$172.00

$176.00

2.33%

LAING APTS

$131.00

$134.00

2.29%

DORMS/SINGLES

$93.00

$95.00

2.15%

NEW DORM:

Apts (2 rooms)

$151.00

$154.00

1.99%

2nd bedroom (family)

$48.00

$49.00

2.08%

Singles

$107.00

$109.00

1.87%

PRESEASON RATES (2 week May session)

Entomology:

Food

$165.00

$220.00

33.33%

Rent

$105.00

$176.00

67.62%

Insurance

$15.00

$8.00

(46.67%)

Communities:

Food

$245.00

$255.00

4.08%

Rent

$95.00

$95.00

0.00%

Insurance

$55.00

$100.00

81.82%

OFF SEASON RATES

Singles/Guests:

Night

$11.00

$11.00

0.00%

Week

$54.00

$55.00

1.85%

Month

$216.00

$220.00

1.85%

Family:

Night

$14.50

$15.00

3.45%

Week

$72.00

$74.00

2.78%

Month

$288.00

$294.00

2.08%

GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)

Classroom/day

$30.00

$31.00

3.33%

Dining Hall/day

$55.00

$56.00

1.82%

New Dorm Kitchen/day

$30.00

$31.00

3.33%

Auditorium/day

$30.00

$31.00

3.33%

Pavilion only

No charge

Computer Lab/day

$50.00

$51.00

2.00%

Cabins: Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.

Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.

Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

Actual 2002Proposed 2003 RatePercent IncreaseBOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)Persons 17 years & older$513.00$513.000.00%Persons 10-16 years old$308.00$308.000.00%Persons 9 yrs & younger$164.00$164.000.00%SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)CABINS$172.00$176.002.33%LAING APTS$131.00$134.002.29%DORMS/SINGLES$93.00$95.002.15%NEW DORM:Apts (2 rooms)$151.00$154.001.99%2nd bedroom (family)$48.00$49.002.08%Singles$107.00$109.001.87%PRESEASON RATES (2 week May session)Entomology:Food$165.00$220.0033.33%Rent$105.00$176.0067.62%Insurance$15.00$8.00(46.67%)Communities:Food$245.00$255.004.08%Rent$95.00$95.000.00%Insurance$55.00$100.0081.82%OFF SEASON RATESSingles/Guests:Night$11.00$11.000.00%Week$54.00$55.001.85%Month$216.00$220.001.85%Family:Night$14.50$15.003.45%Week$72.00$74.002.78%Month$288.00$294.002.08%GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)Classroom/day$30.00$31.003.33%Dining Hall/day$55.00$56.001.82%New Dorm Kitchen/day$30.00$31.003.33%Auditorium/day$30.00$31.003.33%Pavilion onlyNo chargeComputer Lab/day$50.00$51.002.00%Cabins: Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $200,000,000 OF GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDSRECITALS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, on June 1, 2002, the Board authorized the issuance of bonds to finance the projects described in items A through E below:

The construction of an addition to the Aquatic & Fitness Center consisting of a gymnasium complex, fitness and weightlifting areas and the Engineering/Science Chiller Plant (authorized project cost - $10,400,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $5,500,000);

The renovation of the Cancer Center located on the 4th and 5th floors of the Multistory Building and in the Davis Wing to expand its facilities and patient capacity (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $5,000,000);

The construction of the Emmet Street Parking Structure, an approximately 1,200 space parking garage located at the intersection of Emmett Street and Ivy Road (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $17,500,000);

The Hospital Expansion Project which consists of an approximately 75,000 square foot addition to the Hospital and the renovation of approximately 152,000 square feet of the existing Hospital (authorized project cost - $58,000,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $54,000,000);

The acquisition of the School of Medicine research building (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $17,000,000); and

WHEREAS, in addition to the foregoing projects, the Board has now determined to authorize the issuance of bonds to finance the projects described in items F through H below:

The construction of the University's new approximately 15,000 seat Arena (authorized project cost - $121,000,000; additional project cost of $8.8 million pending General Assembly approval; authorized bond issuance amount - $75,000,000);

The construction of a new Observatory Hill Dining Replacement Facility, including new dining facilities and office space for Business Operations and Dining Services (authorized project cost - $22,000,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $10,000,000);

The refunding of all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of (1) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993A, (2) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993B, (3) the University's Series 1973 HUD financing, (4) the University's portion of the Commonwealth's Taxable Series 1990A Bonds and (5) the University's portion of the Commonwealth's Taxable Series 1992B Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the maximum cost and authorized bond issuance amount of each Project is indicated above, in each case exclusive of costs of issuance, capitalized interest, original issue discount and other expenses relating thereto; and

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth has authorized the Projects and the issuance of bonds for them in the following legislation:

Aquatic and Fitness Center (207-16383): Initial authorization 2000-2002, Chapter 1073, Item C-54; Supplemental authorization 2002, Chapter 814, Item C-54;

Cancer Center (209-16751): Authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-53.10;

Emmet Street Parking Garage (207-16645): Authorization 2002, Chapter 814, Item C-60.20;

Hospital Expansion (209-16392): Initial planning authorization 2000-2002, Chapter 1073, Item C-65; Supplemental planning authorization 2001, Chapter 1073, Item 4-4.01m; Construction authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-48;

School of Medicine Research Building (207-16562): Authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-41;

Arena (207-16281): Planning authorization 1999, Chapter 935, Item C-36.76; Construction authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-36;

Observatory Hill Dining Replacement Facility (207-16094): Initial authorization 1999, Chapter 935, Item C-36.78; Supplemental authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-34; and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the bonds, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of one or more series of bonds for the purpose of financing or refinancing any or all of the Projects and providing for the terms thereof, as required by Section 23-19 of the Virginia Code; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the final terms of each series of bonds, including, without limitation, their original principal amounts, the specific Projects to be financed or refinanced, maturity dates and amounts, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates (which may be either fixed or variable), provided that (i) the maximum aggregate principal amount of all bonds shall not exceed $200,000,000; (ii) the maximum true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a fixed rate shall not exceed six percent (6%) per annum; (iii) the maximum initial true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a variable rate shall not exceed five percent (5%) per annum; (iv) the final maturity of all bonds shall not extend beyond June 1, 2038; (v) call protection on the bonds shall not exceed eleven (11) years; and (vi) no optional redemption premium shall exceed two percent; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the discount payable to the underwriters selected by the Executive Committee (the "Underwriters") on account of the sale of the bonds and to approve the terms of a contract for the sale of the bonds to the Underwriters, provided that the discount payable to the Underwriters shall not exceed 0.5 percent of the original aggregate principal amount of the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of Underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees and liquidity providers for the bonds, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms ofthe financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to the Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates Yoke San Reynolds, Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on the bonds; and

RESOLVED that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed.

RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $100,000,000 OF COMMERCIAL PAPERRECITALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University

including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined to facilitate the financing or refinancing from time to time of capital projects of the University on a short-term basis through the issuance of short-term commercial paper in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time not to exceed $100,000,000 (the "Program"); and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the Program will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the Program, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the Program and to approve the final terms of the Program, including, without limitation, the original principal amount thereof, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates, provided that the maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Program at any one time shall not exceed $100,000,000; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that costs associated with any capital project of the University may be financed under the Program provided that (i) such project has been authorized by appropriate legislation enacted by the Commonwealth and (ii) the incurrence of indebtedness for such project has been authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees and liquidity providers for the Program, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as

they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the Program; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates Yoke San Reynolds, Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on any obligations issued under the Program; and

RESOLVED that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed.

APPROVAL OF A REVISED BUDGET AND FUNDING PLAN FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, which set a $126.7 million budget for the South Lawn Project with $61.1 million to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, approving the report from the Special Committee setting forth the project budget and scope; and

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities approved a revised budget and funding plan on October 28, 2002, for the South Lawn Project;

RESOLVED that the new budget for the South Lawn project is now $160 million, of which $94.4 million is to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. CHAMP CLARK
---------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Champ Clark was born on August 24, 1923, to a Missouri family of national political importance; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark pursued a distinguished career in journalism, becoming a senior editor of Time magazine; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Clark settled in Greene County in 1974 and very quickly became involved in a number of civic activities; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark joined the faculty of the University and taught popular and demanding courses in journalism until 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark served the Board and the University with great distinction, particularly as a member of the Executive Committee and notably because of his thorough and definitive study and compilation of University policies; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark died on December 21, 2002;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors honors the memory of Champ Clark's service to the University and expresses its profound sorrow for his death to Mrs. Clark and their family.

ELECTION OF MR. EUGENE V. FIFE TO THE MILLER CENTER GOVERNING COUNCIL
---------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Eugene V. Fife of Charlottesville is elected a member of the Miller Center Governing Council, effective February 1, 2003, for a term of three years.

REPLACEMENT OF HIGHWAY HISTORICAL MARKER
----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the state Highway Department in 1929 placed an historical marker commemorating the University of Virginia on Fontaine Avenue, at the southern edge of Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, the marker is missing; and

WHEREAS, the state Department of Historic Resources and the Virginia Department of Transportation wish to put a replacement marker on the Grounds of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors must approve all such markers and plaques placed on the University Grounds;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the text and the placement of an appropriate historical marker on the University Grounds. The approved text for the marker is appended Attachment C to these Minutes.

COMMENDING STUDENT ACCOMPLISHMENTS
----------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends and supports the outstanding accomplishments of the students of the University of Virginia in the classroom, on the playing field, in research, in extramural academic competition and in service to the community around them. Further, the Board does not condone the unfortunate actions of a few students who have neglected the feelings of others with their thoughtless acts.

PROCESS FOR APPROVING MEDICAL CENTER MARKET-BASED COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board has established the Medical Center Operating Board to oversee the University of Virginia Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Board has previously enacted policies related to compensation of the Medical Center employees; and

WHEREAS, in the current climate of a nationwide shortage of nurses and other health care professionals, the Medical Center must be able to act quickly to adjust salaries in reaction to market forces;

RESOLVED that it is the intent of the Board that market-based compensation adjustments within the Board approved compensation plan be made on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board, and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, provided the compensation adjustments are consistent with Board policies, the approved budget and state law, and are reported to the Medical Center Operating Board.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Elections of Chairholders(b) Change of Title of Chairholder(c) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders(d) Retirement of Chairholder(e) Resignation of ChairholderPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSCHANGE IN THE HIRE DATE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MS. LINDA R. DAVIESCHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. ALBERT R. TURNBULLAPPOINTMENTSCHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. JEFFREY PLANKRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF MS. PATRICIA M. LAMPKIN AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRSRE-ELECTION OF MR. LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE, JR., AS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUSCHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE EMERITUS ELECTION FOR MR. ALBERT R. TURNBULLDEATHS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The President announced that the hire date of Ms. Linda R. Davies, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 4-5, 2002, was changed to read as follows:

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Albert Turnbull, Professor of Law, effective June 24, 2002, as shown in the retirement section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 5-6, 2002, was changed to read as follows:

The following appointments were announced:

The President announced that the title of Mr. Jeffrey Plank as Associate Vice President for Research and Public Service, for three years, effective June 25, 2002, as shown in the appointment section of the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 4-5, 2002, be changed to read as follows:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin is elected Vice President for Student Affairs, for five years, effective October 25, 2002.

RESOLVED that Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., is re-elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, for five years, effective July 1, 2003.

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the Emeritus election of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Professor of Law, effective June 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 5-6, 2002, was changed to read as follows:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

On motion of Rector John P. Ackerly, III, Chair of the Executive Committee, the Board elected Mr. John Rocco MacMillan Rodney of Memphis, Tennessee, as the non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors, for one year, effective April 5, 2003.

Mr. Rainey noted that three other Members, in addition to Ms. Twohy, are ending their terms on the Board. He asked Mr. Glazer to read a resolution honoring Mrs. Holland.

The following resolution was approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION COMMENDING MRS. ELSIE GOODWYN HOLLAND
------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Elsie Goodwyn Holland, a native of Dinwiddie County, took the B.S. and M.S.in Education from Virginia State University and the Ed.D. from the Curry School; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland has devoted her life to teaching in the classroom from the elementary level to university, with a specialty in early childhood education and reading; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland has also been deeply involved in education as an administrator in a wide variety of fields; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland's interests and contributions extend beyond the classroom and she has been a member of many commissions and boards, thus serving both her community and her state; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland is married to Kenneth G. Holland and Mr. and Mrs. Holland reside in Richmond; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1994 by Governor Allen to fill an unexpired term, reappointed the next year by Governor Allen and reappointed again in 1999 by Governor Gilmore; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland's tenure on the Board ends on February 28, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks Elsie Goodwyn Holland for her service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

Mr. Rainey then read a resolution commending Mr. Greer. The following resolution was approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION COMMENDING MR. T. KEISTER GREER
------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, T. Keister Greer's roots extend deep into the soil of his ancestral Franklin County, though he was born in West Virginia, to the point where he virtually personifies Rocky Mount; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer matriculated in the College in 1939 but left the University in 1942 to serve in the United States Marine Corps, and ended the war in the Okinawa campaign as executive officer of the First Battalion and company commander of Charlie Company of that battalion of the First Marines; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer returned to the University in the fall of 1945 and left in 1948 with both the B.A. and the L.L.B.; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer, as a student, showed an early interest in intercollegiate athletics as a good trackman in addition to being a member of the Raven Society and the Law Review Staff , as weel as other activities; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer returned to Rocky Mount to begin the practice of law, but soon extended his activities to California as well and continued his bi-coastal practice, with distinction, until his retirement; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer has recently published a serious and comprehensive scholarly work, The Great Moonshine Conspiracy Trial of 1935, an elegantly written account of the longest trial in the history of Virginia jurisprudence; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer was appointed to the Board of Visitors in 1995 by Governor Allen and reappointed by Governor Gilmore in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer has served the Board with great distinction as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee and Chair of several special committees, but above all for the elegance, erudition and wisdom he has brought to Board discussions and debates; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Greer, a published author herself and a painter, has been Mr. Greer's helpmate and advisor in every way during his service on the Board; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Greer's second term on the Board of Visitors ends on February 28, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks T. Keister Greer for his devoted service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

Mr. Rainey asked Mr. Crutchfield to read a letter he had written to commend the Rector; other letters from Board Members, at the Rector's request, are to be mailed to the Rector. Mr. Goodwin also read comments that he had written. Mr. Crutchfield then read a resolution commending the Rector. The Rector recused himself from asking for action and instead deferred to Mr. Goodwin who as Rector pro tempore asked for a motion to approve the resolution. The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE RECTOR
--------------------------------

WHEREAS, John P. Ackerly, III, a native Lexingtonian who was raised partly in Richmond, took his B.A. from the University in 1957 and his L.L.B. in 1960; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly began his long years of service to the University while he was a student as a leader among his peers, service that was recognized when he was given the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award when he graduated from the College; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly showed great good sense in marrying Mary Marshall Wall of Richmond; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly returned to Richmond in 1960 and began a distinguished career in the practice of the law; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly has served his church, his city and his state as an active member of numerous boards and commissions; and

WHEREAS, over the years Mr. Ackerly has honed two of his interests — the strategies of General Thomas J. Jackson in the Valley of Virginia during the Civil War and the relentless pursuit of groundhogs — to the point where he is recognized as an authority on Stonewall Jackson's Valley campaigns and on the hunting of groundhogs; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1995 and re-appointed by Governor Gilmore in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly was elected Rector by his colleagues on the Board in 1998 and re-elected in 2002; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly's tenure as Rector has been distinguished above all by his integrity and by his successful efforts at building consensus not only on the Board but in the University community as a whole; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Ackerly have been tireless in their support of a truly staggering variety of University activities, spending almost as much time in Charlottesville as in Richmond during the last eight years; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Ackerly's terms both as a Member of the Board and as Rector expire on March 1, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks John P. Ackerly, III and Mary Wall Ackerly for their devoted service to the Board and to the University;

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board expresses special appreciation to Mr. Ackerly as a friend, colleague and leader on this, the occasion of the last meeting of the Board of Visitors over which he will preside.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE(a) ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION IV, EAST LAWN (October 18, 2002)(b) APPROVAL OF COLLEGE AT WISE TUITION SURCHARGE FOR 2002-2003 (November 26, 2002)(c) APPROVAL OF FACULTY RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM (December 9, 2002)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted by the Executive Committee between the October and present meetings of the full Board; they required no further action and are listed here as a matter of record:

RESOLVED that Pavilion IV, East Lawn, be assigned to Mr. Larry J. Sabato. The assignment, to be effective in the winter of 2003, will be for five years with an option, upon application, of renewal for a second five years. The assignment is made in accordance with the terms of the Board of Visitors' Pavilion Assignment Policy.

WHEREAS, the 2002-2003 College at Wise budget approved by the Board of Visitors reflects reductions in the general fund appropriation of $675,791; and

WHEREAS, the College at Wise Advisory Board recommends the implementation of a tuition surcharge;

RESOLVED that The University of Virginia's College at Wise apply a tuition surcharge for the Spring 2003 semester in the amount of $200 for full-time students and prorated for part-time students.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the College at Wise use approximately $50,000 of the revenue generated by the tuition surcharge for financial aid to students demonstrating increased need as a direct result of the application of the surcharge.

WHEREAS, the University's General Fund appropriation for 2002-2004 has been reduced by $93.5 million and additional reductions may be imposed; and

WHEREAS, in response to budget reductions, the University is investigating all available means to reduce operating expenses, including expenses for personnel; and

WHEREAS, it is essential that management has the necessary tools to make prudent changes in their operations; and

WHEREAS, §4-6.01.m.1 of the 2002 Appropriations Act requires that the total cost in any fiscal year for any compensation plan associated with retirement incentive plans "shall be set forth by the governing body in the compensation plan for approval by the Governor and review for legal sufficiency by the Office of the Attorney General".

RESOLVED by the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, that the Separation Incentive Program for Faculty (shown in Attachment B) be approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the cost of the program in any fiscal year shall not exceed $2 million; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to amend the details of the Separation Incentive Program for Faculty as necessary based on the review by the Attorney General and the Governor; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors reserves the right to modify, amend or repeal the Program at any time.

The Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), meeting on December 12, 2002, took the following actions; these do not require the approval of the Board of Visitors and are listed below as a matter of record:

Investment of up to $50million with Sun Capital Partners

Investment of $5million with SuttonBrook Capital Management

Approval of a program of investing up to $30million in secondary interests in select private equity partnerships

Approved the expansion of the farm team to include Absolute Return managers

Approved the proposed changes to the General Faculty and Medical Center Retirement Plan, including the addition of the Vanguard Group to the program

Approved the revised guidelines for the General Faculty and Medical Center Retirement Plan.

CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following actions were taken by the Medical Center Operating Board (MCOB) on January 30th. They do not require action by the Board of Visitors and are listed below as a matter of record:

NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
--------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for Reappointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

STATUS CHANGES TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Medical Policy Council for the status changes in clinical privileges for the following practitioners are approved:

SECONDARY APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
--------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for Secondary Appointments to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF
------------------------------------

NEW APPOINTMENTS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF
---------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Medical Policy Council for the granting of credentials to the following healthcare professionals for appointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center are approved:

RESIGNATION OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Medical Policy Council for the resignation of privileges to the following allied health professionals are approved:

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: January 31-February 1, 2003

CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from considered in closed session.

ATTACHMENT A
------------

p.15

The Officers of the Board of Visitors shall consist of the Rector of the University of Virginia, the Vice Rector, the President of the University, the Chief Financial Officer of the University, the General Counsel of the University, and the Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

Section 4.1 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.11 Terms of Office and Election — The Rector and Vice Rector shall serve terms of two years; at the conclusion of the Rector's term of office the Vice Rector shall succeed the Rector and serve for two years in that office. The Board at its first regular meeting after 28 February 2003 shall elect a Rector and a Vice Rector from among its members to serve until 30 June 2005. At its regular meeting closest to that date, and at the regular meeting closest to 30 June every two years thereafter, the Board shall elect a Vice Rector from among its members to succeed the Rector. At the election meeting, the election shall be by majority vote of the members present following nominations, and the Secretary shall serve as the presiding officer until an election is accomplished unless the Board decides to appoint another presiding officer. The Secretary shall count the votes and announce the election of the Rector.

Section 4.12 Powers and Duties — The Rector shall be the presiding officer of the Board of Visitors at all of its meetings; in the Rector's absence, the Vice Rector shall serve in that capacity. The Rector shall have the power, unless otherwise directed by the Board, to fix the order of business, appoint all standing and special committees (except the Executive Committee), and require the proper preservation of a record of the Board's proceedings by the Secretary. Without diminishing the right of individual Visitors to publicly express their personal views, the Rector, unless otherwise determined by the Board or the Rector, shall act as spokesman for the Board of Visitors. The Rector and Vice Rector shall perform such additional duties as may be imposed on their offices by statute or by direction of the Board.

Whenever the office of the President becomes vacant or a vacancy is impending, the Rector shall appoint a Special Committee on the Nomination of a President from among the membership of the Board to seek and recommend to the Board a person to fill the vacancy.

This special committee shall be under the chairmanship of the Rector and the committee shall consist of no fewer than five members.

Section 4.23 Vacancies — Vacancies in the offices of Rector and Vice Rector shall be filled by the Board for the unexpired terms, following the procedure set forth in Section 4.11. If the cause of the vacancies is the expiration of the Rector's or the Vice Rector's terms as members of the Board, the vacancies shall be filled at the first regular meeting following such expiration. If the vacancies occur from any other cause, the vacancies shall be filled at the first regular meeting after such vacancies occur or at a special meeting called for that purpose, at which meeting a quorum shall consist of eleven Visitors.

Section 4.14 Rector pro tempore — In the absence of the Rector and the Vice Rector at any meeting or in the event of their disability or of vacancy in office, the chair of the Finance Committee shall serve as Rector pro tempore. If the chair of the Finance Committee is absent or is unable to serve, the Board shall elect a Rector pro tempore for that meeting.

Section 4.2 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.21 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.22 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.3 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.4 \[unchanged\]

Section 4.41 Powers and Duties — The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Visitors and its committees and shall record the minutes of all proceedings. He shall prepare minutes of such meetings that, after approval by the Board, shall be recorded in the permanent records of the Board of Visitors. He shall maintain an up- to-date inventory of Board policies. He shall give proper notice of all meetings of the Board, shall preserve as directed all documents or papers pertaining to the actions of the Board, and shall keep in safe custody the seal of the University, which he shall affix to any instrument when

authorized by the Board or persons designated by it, including the Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, or the Chief Financial Officer. In addition to the foregoing, the Secretary shall perform those functions and have those duties or responsibilities which are usual to the duties of a secretary and shall assist the Board of Visitors in the discharge of its official duties. He shall, under the immediate direction of the President, perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board, the Rector, the Vice Rector, or the President.

Section 5.5 Execution of Instruments — The Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and other persons designated by the Board of Visitors shall be authorized to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, any instrument that may require the name of the corporation to be signed thereto, and the Secretary shall have authority to affix the seal of the corporation to any such instrument and to deliver it to the party entitled to receive it.

Section 5.6 Assignment of Securities — The Rector, the Vice Rector, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and other persons designated by the Board of Visitors shall have authority to sell, assign, and transfer any and all stocks, bonds, evidences of indebtedness or interest thereon, rights and options to acquire or sell the same, and all other securities, corporate or otherwise, standing in the name or belonging to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any capacity. The same persons have authority to give the assent of the corporation to mergers, consolidations, agreements for a deposit of stock, or for reorganization of any corporation or corporations in which the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as a corporation may have an interest.

Draft approved by the Executive Committee on December 9, 2002. Final version approved by theSecretary of Education on January 6, 2003.ATTACHMENT BUniversity of Virginia Separation Incentive Program For FacultyI. Preamble II. DefinitionsIII. ObjectivesIV. EligibilityV. Separation Payment Contract ConditionsA. FRP ParticipantsB. VRS Participants a. Separation Paymentb. WTA Separation Payment c. WTA Enhanced Separation:VI. Phased Separation Contract ConditionsA. FRP ParticipantsB. VRS ParticipantsVII. Workforce Reduction TargetsA. Business Justification for ProgramB. CriteriaVIII. General Procedures
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WTA Separation Payment Schedule

Years of Service

Amount of Severance

2 or less

4 weeks of salary

3-9

4 weeks of salary, plus 1 additional week for every year of service over 2

10-14

12 weeks of salary, plus 2 additional weeks for every year of service over 9

15 or more

2 weeks of salary for every year of service, not to exceed 36 weeks

The University of Virginia Separation Incentive Program for Faculty (the "Program") has been established to meet institutional needs created by reductions in the University's 2002-2004 biennial budget. The program is designed to reduce or reallocate positions in keeping with budgetary and programmatic needs.

In order to reap budgetary savings during Fiscal Years 2003 and 2004, this program will apply only to separation contracts executed in the Spring of 2003. Applicants to the severance portion of the program may separate no later than May 2004 for nine-month faculty, and June 2004 for 12-month faculty. Applicants to the phased retirement portion of the program must begin their phased retirements no later than August 25, 2003, for nine-month faculty and June 25, 2003, for 12-month faculty. The total cost in any fiscal year of the Separation Payment Contract portion of the Program may not exceed $2 million. The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reserves the right to modify, amend, or repeal the Program at any time.

The Program has been designed to meet the management needs of the University and the needs of the faculty. Eligible faculty members may apply for, and if selected, participate in this program. A faculty member's election to participate is irrevocable seven days after the faculty member signs a separation contract. There are no penalties for declining to participate; however, failure to obtain significant budgetary savings as a result of this program could exacerbate budgetary shortfalls and require the University to pursue other more drastic measures.

Annual Salary: the basic contracted nine-month salary for faculty members with academic year appointments, and the basic contracted twelve-month salary for faculty members with fiscal or calendar year appointments; only salary dollars paid through the University payroll system prior to application to the Program are to be taken into consideration

FRP: The Defined Contribution Retirement Plan for the General Faculty of the University of Virginia, also known as the Faculty Retirement Plan

Faculty Member: each full-time faculty member who is tenured, or serves under a contract with expectation of continued employment pursuant to the University's Policy on the General Faculty

Fiscal Year: the twelve-month period beginning July 1 of each year Full-time: 40 hours per week, or the equivalent in workload Program: The Separation Incentive Program for Faculty

Separation: the conclusion of employment with the University, requiring (1) withdrawal from active membership in the Virginia Retirement System (the "VRS") by VRS members; or (2) cessation of contributions to the FRP

Separation Agreement: the binding and irrevocable contract for separation entered into between the faculty member and the University

Separation Payment: an amount to be paid in periodic installments over not more than 12 months

VRS: the Virginia Retirement System, the defined benefit pension plan for employees of the Commonwealth of Virginia

Workforce Reduction Target: the University's business goal for implementation of this Program

Workload Reduction Period: the period during which the Faculty Member's workload reduces in anticipation of Separation

Year of Service: a year of creditable service, as that term is defined by the VRS, not to include service purchased or granted

A. To provide a financial incentive for immediate Separation for Faculty that will facilitate the release of resources to the Provost and Executive Vice President for budget reallocation or reduction in accordance with the University's overall budget reduction plan, changes in enrollment, and other University needs.

B. To provide a flexible separation plan that will facilitate Separation by meeting faculty members' changing needs and professional interests in the latter stages of their careers through a gradual disengagement from the Full-time duties of their positions while maintaining retirement contributions.

C. To provide the University more flexibility in hiring new faculty members without completely losing the talents and experience of senior faculty.

A. Participants must be Full-time Faculty Members, as set forth in the definitions above.

B. Participants must have at least 15 years of continuous Full-time service with the University prior to applying for a Separation Agreement.

C. Participants must be at least age 55 at the time of Separation.

D. Participants must fall within the University's Workforce Reduction Targets.

E. Participants must complete all forms and paperwork required by either the University or the Commonwealth of Virginia, including but not limited to an application and a Separation Agreement.

1\. In exchange for a Faculty Member's agreement to retire or separate from Full-time employment immediately (e.g., by the May 25 after the date of application for nine- month faculty), the Faculty Member will receive either a Separation Payment, or, in accordance with the terms of Virginia Code Section 2.2-3200, known as the Workforce Transition Act of 1995 (WTA) and summarized herein at Sections V.B.1.b and c, a WTA Separation Payment or WTA Enhanced Separation.

This set of conditions applies to faculty members who are enrolled in the FRP. The option provides for phased reduction in workload and salary with the consent of the Provost or Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer, as described in Section VIII. The conditions of the agreement are as follows:

This set of conditions applies to faculty members who are enrolled in the Virginia Retirement System.

The University of Virginia was directed by the Governor to reduce its General Fund appropriation for the 2002-2004 Budget Biennium by 16%, followed by another 12% in Fiscal Year 2003 and 14% in Fiscal Year 2004, for a total of $93.5 million as of December 1, 2002. Further, the Governor has warned state agencies that more cuts may be necessary, particularly for 2003-2004. As a result, the University is investigating all means available to reduce operating expenses and meet budget targets, including faculty separations.

In the event that funding or other constraints limit the number of applicants who can participate in the Separation Incentive Program, a priority system has been established to choose among applicants. The criteria may include:

A. Each eligible Faculty Member who wishes to be considered for either a Separation Payment or Workload Reduction Period must file an application with his or her Dean or Department Head by February 14, 2003. A copy of the application must be sent to the University Human Resources Benefits Division.

B. The applicant's Dean and/or Department Head will review the application, and mark it either "Recommended for Approval" or "Not Recommended for Approval". The Dean and/or Department Head will forward all applications to the UHR Benefits Division by no later than February 28. The UHR Benefits Division will direct applications from within the Provost's areas to the Provost for approval, and applications of administrative faculty within the areas reporting to the Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer to the Executive Vice President for approval. The Provost /EVP review will take into consideration whether the proposed Separation meets the Workforce Reduction Targets, is consistent with the University's overall goals, and is supported by budgetary restrictions. The decision of the Provost or EVP is final, and is not subject to appeal. The University reserves the right to reject any application.

C. If approved by the Provost or Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer, a Separation Agreement will be forwarded to the Faculty Member for his/her signature by April 1. The final Separation Agreement will include, among other things:

D. All Separation Agreements are irrevocable seven days after they are signed by the Faculty Member.

E. In the event that a Faculty Member becomes permanently and totally disabled after a Separation Agreement is signed, but before the Separation date, the University will provide payments for which provision is made in the Agreement. In the event that the Faculty Member dies after a Separation Agreement is signed, but before the Separation date, the University will not be responsible for any payments under the Agreement and such Agreement shall be considered null and void.

ATTACHMENT C
------------

The University of Virginia was founded by Thomas Jefferson. The cornerstone of its first building was laid on 6 October 1817, in the presence of three Presidents of the United States — Jefferson, Madison and Monroe. In 1825, it received its first students who would be educated in what Mr. Jefferson called "useful sciences," schooled in honor and self-determination, and prepared to lead a free nation and protect its democratic institutions. In 1987, UNESCO named the grounds of the University of Virginia, Thomas Jefferson's "academical village," to its prestigious World Heritage list.
