---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2004'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 16-17, 2004
--------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Resolution of Commendation for Mr. John R.M. Rodney

6634

Approval of the Minutes of the Meeting of February 6-7, 2004

6634

Elections to the Executive Committee

6634

Resolution Approving Additions to the Agenda

6635

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

6637

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2004-2005

6640

Approval of the Gift of Property at the Northeast Corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road Intersection From BB&T Corporation

6642

Approval of the Disposition of the Spring House Property Located Behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center to Weather Hill Homes, Ltd.

6643

Approval of a Permanent Easement for the Prince William County Service Authority for a Water Line at the Currie Estate Property in Prince William County

6644

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Weather Hill Homes, Ltd., for the Widening and Upgrade of Boulder Road Located Behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center

6645

Approval of Permanent Easements for the University of Virginia Across BB&T Corporation Property Located at the Northeast Corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road Intersection in Charlottesville

6645

Approval to Remove the Brugh House at 204 15th Street SW in Charlottesville

6646

Approval to Remove the Fayerweather Annex

6646

PAGE

Approval to Merge the Graduate Programs in the History of Art and in Architectural History as Proposed by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Architecture

6647

Approval to Close the B.S., M.S., M.A.P.M.A., and Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics

6647

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2004- 2005 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6648

Approval of Schematic Design for the Core Laboratory Building

6649

Approval of Schematic Design for the Main Heating Plant Environmental Compliance Upgrade Project

6649

Approval of a Revised Budget and Funding Plan for the South Lawn Project

6649

Memorial Resolution for William L. Zimmer, III

6651

Memorial Resolution for Evans Butler Jessee

6652

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

6652

Appointment of Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., to the Medical Center Operating Board

6652

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

6653

Change in the Title of the Election of Ms. Simone E. Schnall

6654

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

6654

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

6655

Resignation of Chairholder

6656

Retirement of Chairholders

6656

Election of Professors Emeriti

6656

Special Salary Actions

6657

Resignations

6659

Retirements

6660

Change in the Title of the Retirement of Mr. Walter L. Newsome

6661

PAGE

Appointments

6661

Re-Appointments

6662

Election of Professors Emeriti

6662

Change in the Emeritus Title for Mr. Walter L. Newsome

6663

Election of Associate Professor Emeritus

6663

Deaths

6663

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

Election

6664

Resignation

6664

Retirement

6664

Appointments

6664

Election of Professor Emeritus

6665

Authorization to Seek Rezoning of Currie Property

6666

Approval of Variable Rate Debt Policy

6667

Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees, and Other Charges for the Academic Division

6668

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2004-2005 Regular Session of the Academic Division

6671

Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for the 2004- 2005 Special Sessions of the Academic Division

6672

Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6673

Actions of Board Committees Not Requiring Action by the Full Board

6674

Meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, February 19, 2004

6674

Executive Committee, By Telephone, on March 1, 2004

6674

Actions of the UVIMCO Board, March 16, 2004

6674

Buildings and Grounds Committee, April 15, 2004 Approval of Schematic Design for the Core Laboratory BuildingApproval of Schematic Design for the Main Heating Plant Environmental Compliance Upgrade Project

6674

PAGEResolution of Commendation for Mr. John R.M. Rodney6634Approval of the Minutes of the Meeting of February 6-7, 20046634Elections to the Executive Committee6634Resolution Approving Additions to the Agenda6635Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report6637Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2004-20056640Approval of the Gift of Property at the Northeast Corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road Intersection From BB&T Corporation6642Approval of the Disposition of the Spring House Property Located Behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center to Weather Hill Homes, Ltd.6643Approval of a Permanent Easement for the Prince William County Service Authority for a Water Line at the Currie Estate Property in Prince William County6644Approval of a Permanent Easement for Weather Hill Homes, Ltd., for the Widening and Upgrade of Boulder Road Located Behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center6645Approval of Permanent Easements for the University of Virginia Across BB&T Corporation Property Located at the Northeast Corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road Intersection in Charlottesville6645Approval to Remove the Brugh House at 204 15th Street SW in Charlottesville6646Approval to Remove the Fayerweather Annex6646 PAGEApproval to Merge the Graduate Programs in the History of Art and in Architectural History as Proposed by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Architecture6647Approval to Close the B.S., M.S., M.A.P.M.A., and Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics6647Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2004- 2005 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise6648Approval of Schematic Design for the Core Laboratory Building6649Approval of Schematic Design for the Main Heating Plant Environmental Compliance Upgrade Project6649Approval of a Revised Budget and Funding Plan for the South Lawn Project6649Memorial Resolution for William L. Zimmer, III6651Memorial Resolution for Evans Butler Jessee6652Approval of Summary of Audit Findings6652Appointment of Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., to the Medical Center Operating Board6652Faculty Personnel ActionsElections6653Change in the Title of the Election of Ms. Simone E. Schnall6654Actions Relating to ChairholdersElection of Chairholders6654Special Salary Action of Chairholders6655Resignation of Chairholder6656Retirement of Chairholders6656Election of Professors Emeriti6656Special Salary Actions6657Resignations6659Retirements6660Change in the Title of the Retirement of Mr. Walter L. Newsome6661 PAGEAppointments6661Re-Appointments6662Election of Professors Emeriti6662Change in the Emeritus Title for Mr. Walter L. Newsome6663Election of Associate Professor Emeritus6663Deaths6663The University of Virginia’s College at WiseElection6664Resignation6664Retirement6664Appointments6664Election of Professor Emeritus6665Authorization to Seek Rezoning of Currie Property6666Approval of Variable Rate Debt Policy6667Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees, and Other Charges for the Academic Division6668Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for 2004-2005 Regular Session of the Academic Division6671Approval of Allocation of Required Fees for the 2004- 2005 Special Sessions of the Academic Division6672Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees and Other Charges for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise6673Actions of Board Committees Not Requiring Action by the Full Board6674Meeting of the Medical Center Operating Board, February 19, 20046674Executive Committee, By Telephone, on March 1, 20046674Actions of the UVIMCO Board, March 16, 20046674Buildings and Grounds Committee, April 15, 2004 Approval of Schematic Design for the Core Laboratory BuildingApproval of Schematic Design for the Main Heating Plant Environmental Compliance Upgrade Project 6674

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 16-17, 2004
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 11:20 a.m., Friday, April 16, 2004, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. Thomas F. Farrell, II, William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney were present.

James W. Head, the Student Member-elect, also was present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, R. Edward Howell, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., Robert D. Sweeney, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., William W. Harmon, Steven H. Kaplan, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
--------------------------------------

The Rector opened the meeting by asking Mr. Farrell, the Vice Rector, to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector then introduced the new Members of the Board, Mr. G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., of Richmond, Mr. W. Heywood Fralin of Roanoke, and Ms. Glynn D. Key of Washington, as well as Mr. James W. Head of Charlottesville, the Student Member-elect.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MR. JOHN R.M. RODNEY
---------------------------------------------------

The Rector proposed a resolution commending and thanking Mr. Rodney, the outgoing Student Member, for his service on the Board. On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO JOHN ROCCO MACMILLAN RODNEY
---------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, John Rocco Macmillan Rodney of Memphis, now a fourth year student in the College, was elected the Student Member of the Board of Visitors in 2003; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Rodney has been an outstanding Member of the Board of Visitors, valued by his colleagues on the Board for his insights and advice, as well as for his friendship; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Rodney’s term on the Board ends at the close of the Board meeting on April 17th, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks its colleague, John Rocco Macmillan Rodney, for his devoted service to the Board and to the University, commends him for his strong representation of student points of view on issues considered by the Board, and wishes him every success as he finishes his undergraduate years at the University and begins the study of medicine.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF FEBRUARY 6-7, 2004
------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the meeting of February 5-7, 2004, were approved.

ELECTIONS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
------------------------------------

The Rector asked for a resolution approving the election of Mr. Ross and Mr. Saunders to the Executive Committee.

RESOLVED, that Terence P. Ross and Thomas A. Saunders, III, are elected to the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors, effective April 16, 2004.

COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS
---------------------

The Rector announced the Board Committee assignments, which are appended to these Minutes as Attachment A.

RESOLUTION APPROVING ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
--------------------------------------------

Pursuant to the procedure stated in the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector asked for the Board’s approval of the addition to the published Agenda of two items considered by the Finance Committee. The Board approved the addenda to the Agenda (see the Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of April 15, 2004).

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENTSummary of the General Assembly SessionGraduate School RankingsGifts and Grants
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked the President to give his customary report.

The President reported briefly on the current Session of the General Assembly, excluding the Budget process which is not yet resolved. Legislation was approved – and signed by the Governor – which will exempt the Medical Center from centralized information technology and telecommunications procurement, planning, and oversight. Another bill which passed both Houses and has been approved by the Governor expands eligibility for health insurance to part-time employees under certain conditions. Still another bill gives state institutions of higher learning the option of adding faculty members to boards of visitors. The charter legislation proposed by the University, the College of William and Mary and Virginia Tech was carried over by both houses until the 2005 Session.

In general, the President said, there was a recognition that the long-term economic welfare of the state depends on having an educated workforce.

The President reported on the U.S. News and World Report graduate school rankings, which were released on April 2nd. Four schools ranked in the top 25:

Law (9th, the same as last year)Darden (12th, down from 11th)Curry (20th, up from 21st)Medicine (25th, up from 27th and thus among the top 25 medical schools for the first time)

The rankings for graduate architecture schools were not updated this year, although the School of Architecture ranked 6th in the country in the most recent ratings.

The President reported that private giving to the University and its related foundations stood at $113million for the current fiscal year through February 29, 2004. If the extraordinary gift of over $110million from the Harrison estate last year is excluded from the reckoning, the base rate of the University’s fundraising this fiscal year has increased by 30% over the same period last year.

He noted that the College, the School of Engineering, the School of Architecture, the Jefferson Scholars Foundation, the Curry School, the UVa Fund and the College at Wise report substantial increases in giving this fiscal year.

Turning to specific gifts, he reported an anonymous gift of $6million in pledge payments for the Arena Project, for the Environmental Sciences Building Fund, and to the Darden School Foundation for the Batten Entrepreneurial Leadership and Capital Campaign – Phase II. Mr. Daniel M. Meyers, a friend of the University from Massachusetts, gave $5.54million to the Curry School to be used towards the construction of a new building. Mr. Albert Small, an alumnus and a former Member of the Board of Visitors, gave a $2million gift-in-kind to the University Library; the gift is a 10% undivided interest in a first edition of the first printing of the Declaration of Independence. An anonymous donor has made a $2million pledge payment for the Carr’s Hill Arts Grounds.

Among new pledges are $12.5million to the Medical School to support construction of a Medical Education Building; $1.2million from the John M. Olin Foundation to the Law School Foundation for the John M. Olin Program in Law & Economics; and a $1million pledge to the College Foundation, for unrestricted use, from Mr. Terrence D. Daniels of Greenwood.

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-------------------------------------

As is customary, the Board, on motion, approved a resolution accepting the President’s Gifts and Grants Report.

RESOLVED, the report of the President on gifts and grants made to the University, December 1, 2003 – January 31, 2004, is approved.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
-----------------

The Board recessed at 11:50 a.m., and resumed, in Open Session, at 12:05 p.m., to hear reports from its Committees on actions taken earlier by them.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

The Board recessed at 12:50 p.m., for lunch and resumed at 2:15 p.m. After adopting the following motions to comply with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board went into Executive Session at 2:20:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to consult with General Counsel with regard to his privileged report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider, and consult with General Counsel, the acquisition, transfer and disposition of real estate, together with the proposed terms and testamentary intentions in connection therewith, where disclosure at this time would affect our negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(3), (6), (7) and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss and seek the advice of the University’s General Counsel with respect to the auditor’s evaluation of specific University departments. This will also involve discussion of the performance of specific University managers and personnel and, in the case of the Medical Center, consideration of both personnel performance and proprietary business-related information where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the competitive position of the Medical Center. This is provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1), (7) and (23) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 4:05 p.m., and after adopting the following resolution certifying that its meeting in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the terms of the Virginia Freedom of Information act, adjourned for the day:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

POLICY DISCUSSION
-----------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session and as the full Board, at 9:30 a.m., Saturday, April 17, 2004, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members in attendance the previous morning, save Mr. Kington, were present.

From 9:30 to 11:50 a.m., the Board engaged in a policy discussion on physical planning and its relationship to the mission of the University.

FINAL SESSION
-------------

After a brief recess, the Board resumed, in Open Session, at 11:00, for the final session of its meeting. All Members in attendance at the policy discussion, save Mr. Thompson, were present.

On motion, the Board approved the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2004-2005
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Division

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

Utilities Furnished

2003-2004 Per Month

Amount Increase

Percent Increase

2004-2005 Per Month

Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$558

$35

6.27%

$593

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,G,C,T

$675

$43

6.37%

$718

Houses (3BR) (16) (E)

WS,C,T

$972

$58

5.97%

$1,030

E,G

Townhouses (3BR) (5) (E)

WS,C,T

$972

$58

5.97%

$1,030

E,G

Farmhouse Apt. 1 (1BR) (F)1

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$614

$37

6.03%

$651

Farmhouse Apt. 2 (3 BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$634

$38

5.99%

$672

Farmhouse Apt. 3 (1 BR)

WS,E,G,C,T

$525

$35

6.67%

$560

Farmhouse Apt. 4 (2 BR) (F)1

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$694

$42

6.05%

$736

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR) (E)

WS,T,A/C

$773

$52

6.73%

$825

E,G

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,V,T,A/C

$471

$36

7.64%

$507

Upper Mews (1BR) (F)1

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$668

$40

5.99%

$708

Lower Mews (1BR) (F)1

WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C

$566

$34

6.01%

$600

Monroe Hill Range (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$717

$43

6.00%

$760

Brown College Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$620

$49

7.90%

$669

Hereford Coll. Apts. (2BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$735

$45

6.12%

$780

Hereford Coll. Prin. Res. (3BR)1

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$917

$55

6.00%

$972

102 Cresap Fac Apt. (1BR) (F)1

WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V

$684

$41

5.99%

$725

Hedge House (2BR) (F)

WS,C,T,A/C

$729

$44

6.04%

$773

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS) (F)

WS,E,G,C,T,A/C

$351

$21

5.98%

$372

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$638

$42

6.58%

$680

E,T

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$638

$42

6.58%

$680

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR) (F)

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$906

$54

5.96%

$960

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR) (F)

WS,E,G,C,A/C

$906

$54

5.96%

$960

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)

C

$509

$35

6.88%

$544

WS,E,G,T

424 MLLH, (1BR)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$648

$45

6.94%

$693

423 MLLH, (2BR)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V

$752

$57

7.58%

$809

Academic Division

Rents

Proposed Rents

Utilities

Properties

Utilities Furnished

2003-2004 Per Month

Amount Increase

Percent Increase

2004-2005 Per Month

Paid By Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C,T

$523

$31

5.93%

$554

E

Garage Apt.(2BR)

WS,C,T

$740

$52

7.03%

$792

E,G

Cash House (3BR) (E)

WS,C,T,AC

$950

$63

6.63%

$1,013

E,G

Middleton House (4BR)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,123

$67

5.97%

$1,190

E,G

E & G Properties

Montebello, (3 BR/Garage)

WS,E,G,A/C

$704

$41

5.82%

$745

C,T

Big Morea (4 BR) (F)

WS,E,G,A/C,T

$987

$55

5.57%

$1,042

C

Little Morea (2BR) (F)

WS,E,G,A/C,T

$759

$41

5.40%

$800

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,A/C

$1,570

$63

4.01%

$1,633

C

Monroe Hill House (4BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$913

$51

5.59%

$964

C

Buckingham Palace (Eff)

WS,E,HP,A/C,T

$337

$20

5.93%

$357

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$831

$47

5.66%

$878

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$614

$36

5.86%

$650

C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$831

$47

5.66%

$878

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,HP,T,V

$614

$36

5.86%

$650

C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$831

$47

5.66%

$878

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$831

$47

5.66%

$878

C

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$534

$32

5.99%

$566

C

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$281

$17

6.05%

$298

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$831

$47

5.66%

$878

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$614

$36

5.86%

$650

C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.0%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.0%

$65

E,O

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates be approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2004. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

Academic Division RentsProposed RentsUtilitiesPropertiesUtilities Furnished2003-2004 Per MonthAmount IncreasePercent Increase2004-2005 Per MonthPaid By OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)WS,E,G,C,T$558$356.27%$5932 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS,E,G,C,T$675$436.37%$718Houses (3BR) (16) (E)WS,C,T$972$585.97%$1,030E,GTownhouses (3BR) (5) (E)WS,C,T$972$585.97%$1,030E,GFarmhouse Apt. 1 (1BR) (F)1WS,E,G,C,T,AC$614$376.03%$651Farmhouse Apt. 2 (3 BR)WS,E,G,C,T$634$385.99%$672Farmhouse Apt. 3 (1 BR)WS,E,G,C,T$525$356.67%$560Farmhouse Apt. 4 (2 BR) (F)1WS,E,G,C,T,AC$694$426.05%$736SundryVyssotsky Cottage (3BR) (E)WS,T,A/C$773$526.73%$825E,GMcGuffey Cottage (Eff)WS,E,V,T,A/C$471$367.64%$507Upper Mews (1BR) (F)1WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C$668$405.99%$708Lower Mews (1BR) (F)1WS,E,HP,C,T,A/C$566$346.01%$600Monroe Hill Range (1BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$717$436.00%$760Brown College Apts. (2BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$620$497.90%$669Hereford Coll. Apts. (2BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$735$456.12%$780Hereford Coll. Prin. Res. (3BR)1WS,E,HVAC,T,V$917$556.00%$972102 Cresap Fac Apt. (1BR) (F)1WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V$684$415.99%$725Hedge House (2BR) (F)WS,C,T,A/C$729$446.04%$773E,GOrchard House (5RMS) (F)WS,E,G,C,T,A/C$351$215.98%$372118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)WS,G,C$638$426.58%$680E,T118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)WS,G,C$638$426.58%$680E,T409 Valley Road, (2BR) (F)WS,E,G,C,A/C$906$545.96%$960T411 Valley Road, (2BR) (F)WS,E,G,C,A/C$906$545.96%$960T503 Valley Road, (1BR)C$509$356.88%$544WS,E,G,T424 MLLH, (1BR)WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V$648$456.94%$693423 MLLH, (2BR)WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V$752$577.58%$809 Academic Division RentsProposed RentsUtilitiesPropertiesUtilities Furnished2003-2004 Per MonthAmount IncreasePercent Increase2004-2005 Per MonthPaid By OccupantBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS,C,T$523$315.93%$554EGarage Apt.(2BR)WS,C,T$740$527.03%$792E,GCash House (3BR) (E)WS,C,T,AC$950$636.63%$1,013E,GMiddleton House (4BR)WS,C,T,AC$1,123$675.97%$1,190E,GE & G PropertiesMontebello, (3 BR/Garage)WS,E,G,A/C$704$415.82%$745C,TBig Morea (4 BR) (F)WS,E,G,A/C,T$987$555.57%$1,042CLittle Morea (2BR) (F)WS,E,G,A/C,T$759$415.40%$800CSunnyside (4BR)WS,E,O,A/C$1,570$634.01%$1,633CMonroe Hill House (4BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$913$515.59%$964CBuckingham Palace (Eff)WS,E,HP,A/C,T$337$205.93%$357CPavilion I (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$831$475.66%$878CPavilion II (5BR)WS,HP,T,V$614$365.86%$650CPavilion III (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$831$475.66%$878CPavilion IV (5BR)WS,HP,T,V$614$365.86%$650CPavilion V (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$831$475.66%$878CPavilion VI (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$831$475.66%$878CPavilion VIII Upper (3BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$534$325.99%$566CPavilion VIII Lower (1BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$281$176.05%$298CPavilion IX (5BR)WS,E,HVAC,T,V$831$475.66%$878CPavilion X (5BR)WS,E,HP,T,V$614$365.86%$650CBlandy FarmCurator's HouseWS$0$00.0%$0E,OGreen Farm HouseWS$65$00.0%$65E,O

Notes: 1 Units brought to market this year. In total, 6 units were brought to market and 6 remain below market. “E” designates enhanced properties; “F” designates furnished properties. Utility abbreviations: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, venting, and air conditioning system), A/C (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice and data) and T (trash).

APPROVAL OF THE GIFT OF PROPERTY AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE IVY ROAD/COPELEY ROAD INTERSECTION FROM BB&T CORPORATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the traffic study conducted as a part of the Emmet Street Parking Garage project demonstrated the benefits of widening Copeley Road at the Ivy Road intersection; and

WHEREAS, an engineering study indicated that the acquisition of approximately 737 square feet of land at the northeast corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road intersection would allow the sufficient widening of Copeley Road to greatly improve the turning movements of buses and other large vehicles from the westbound lane of Ivy Road onto Copeley Road; and

WHEREAS, BB&T Corporation, the owner of the land, has agreed to give the property to the University, along with two easements needed for drainage and a traffic control light, provided the University pays for all of the costs associated with the land transfer;

RESOLVED that the gift of the aforesaid property, consisting of approximately 737 square feet, and located adjacent to Copeley Road at the northeast corner of the Ivy Road/Copeley Road intersection from BB&T Corporation, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University of Virginia is authorized to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the gift of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

APPROVAL OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE SPRING HOUSE PROPERTY LOCATED BEHIND THE KLUGE CHILDREN’S REHABILITATION CENTER TO WEATHER HILL HOMES, LTD.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, certain property and improvements (“Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center Spring House property”) containing approximately 6,850 square feet are located behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center on Route 250 West in Albemarle County; and

WHEREAS, the University has determined that due to its size, location, and configuration this land is of nominal use; and

WHEREAS, the Weather Hill Homes, Ltd., has offered to buy this property at a fair market value, provide a vegetative buffer between its property and the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center, provide new utility service to the University’s Cochran House, which is located behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center, and improve and maintain Boulder Road, which is located between the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center and the Cochran House property;

RESOLVED that the disposition of the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center Spring House property on Route 250 West in Albemarle County, Virginia, consisting of approximately 6,850 square feet, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University of Virginia is authorized to approve the final terms of the sale, convey the property and to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the disposal of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY FOR A WATER LINE AT THE CURRIE ESTATE PROPERTY IN PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, by deed of gift dated December 18, 1964, certain property (hereinafter “Currie property”) was conveyed by Kent D. Currie and Helen L. Currie to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors at its February 7, 1997, meeting authorized the transfer and conveyance of the said Currie Property to the University of Virginia Foundation for management on behalf of the University and with the stipulation that the said property may not be sold, assigned, transferred, mortgaged, liened, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of without the concurrence of the Board of Visitors for the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Prince William County Service Authority has requested an easement for a water line on the Currie property;

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated April 15, 2004, to the Prince William County Service Authority for a water line at the Currie property in Prince William County on property owned by The University of Virginia Foundation, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of The University of Virginia Foundation are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR WEATHER HILL HOMES, LTD. FOR THE WIDENING AND UPGRADE OF BOULDER ROAD LOCATED BEHIND THE KLUGE CHILDREN’S REHABILITATION CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement, dated April 15, 2004, to Weather Hill Homes for the widening and upgrade of Boulder Road located behind the Kluge Children’s Rehabilitation Center in Albemarle County on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

APPROVAL OF PERMANENT EASEMENTS FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS BB&T CORPORATION PROPERTY LOCATED AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE IVY ROAD/COPELEY ROAD INTESECTION IN CHARLOTTESVILLE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the request for an easement for a drainage pipe and an easement for a traffic control light, dated April 15, 2004, from BB&T Corporation for improvements to the Ivy Road/Copeley Road intersection across BB&T property located at the northeast corner of the intersection is authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to request and accept said easements; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the University is authorized to assign the easement for the traffic control light to the City of Charlottesville.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE BRUGH HOUSE AT 204 15TH STREET SW IN CHARLOTTESVILLE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns the Brugh House (FAACS Building Number: 207-1111) at 204 15th Street SW in Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, the building site is needed for the relocation of Varsity Hall; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of this structure;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Brugh House (FAACS Building Number: 207-1111) at 204 15th Street SW in Charlottesville, is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removal are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE FAYERWEATHER ANNEX
-----------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University owns the Fayerweather Annex (FAACS Building Number: 207-0405) located on the west side of Fayerweather Hall; and

WHEREAS, the demolition of this structure is required for the renovation of Fayerweather Hall; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources;

RESOLVED that the removal of the Fayerweather Annex (FAACS Building Number: 207-0405), located on the west side of Fayerweather Hall, is approved by the Board of Visitors pending approval by the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned building, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removal are sent to the Department of General Services.

APPROVAL TO MERGE THE GRADUATE PROGRAMS IN THE HISTORY OF ART AND IN ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY AS PROPOSED BY THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES AND THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the existing graduate programs in the History of Art and in Architectural History be merged as proposed by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Architecture.

APPROVAL TO CLOSE THE B.S., M.S., M.A.P.M.A., AND PH.D. IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the B.S., M.S., M.A.P.M.A. and Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics be closed. After thorough review by the University and the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, these programs were deemed no longer viable, and in each instance the Faculty Senate endorsed closure.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2004-2005 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 2003-2004

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 2004-2005

Regular (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$ 2,880

$ 110

3.8%

$ 2,990

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,880

110

3.8%

2,990

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,880

110

3.8%

2,990

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

2,880

110

3.8%

2,990

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,440

110

4.5%

2,550

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,640

50

3.0%

1,690

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,420

50

3.5%

1,470

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,080

30

2.8%

1,110

Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,550

110

4.3%

2,660

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,750

50

2.9%

1,800

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,530

50

3.3%

1,580

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,190

30

2.5%

1,220

Athletics

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars

2,990

110

3.7%

3,100

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,550

110

4.3%

2,660

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,750

50

2.9%

1,800

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,530

50

3.3%

1,580

Other

Law School Meal Plan

400

0

0.0%

400

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

19 Meal Plan

$ 2,482

$100

4.0%

$ 2,582

12 Meal Plan

2,232

90

4.0%

2,322

RESOLVED that the student contract rates for dining services be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2004-2005 Session:

ACADEMIC DIVISION Actual 2003-2004Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 2004-2005Regular (1,2)Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars$ 2,880$ 1103.8%$ 2,99015 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars2,8801103.8%2,99013 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars2,8801103.8%2,99010 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars2,8801103.8%2,99010 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars2,4401104.5%2,550100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,640503.0%1,69080 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,420503.5%1,47050 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars1,080302.8%1,110Residential Colleges/Language Houses (1,2,3)Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10015 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10013 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10010 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10010 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars2,5501104.3%2,660100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,750502.9%1,80080 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,530503.3%1,58050 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars1,190302.5%1,220AthleticsUnlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10015 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10013 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10010 Meals per week (first year) w/ $790 Plus Dollars2,9901103.7%3,10010 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars2,5501104.3%2,660100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,750502.9%1,80080 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars1,530503.3%1,580OtherLaw School Meal Plan40000.0%400THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE19 Meal Plan$ 2,482$1004.0%$ 2,58212 Meal Plan2,232904.0%2,322

NOTES: (1) Plus Dollars are credited to a student's identification card and may be used in the same manner as cash at any board dining hall and/or retail operation. (2) First-year students are required to purchase a 13-, 15- or unlimited-meal plan during their first semester. During their second semester they may switch to the 10-meal plan with $790 Plus Dollars. (3) Some residential colleges and language houses have a dining requirement as part of their program.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE CORE LABORATORY BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 15, 2004, and prepared by Dagget & Grigg – Architects/Planners of Charlottesville, for the Core Laboratory Building is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE MAIN HEATING PLANT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE UPGRADE PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 15, 2004, and prepared by RMF Engineering, Inc. of Baltimore, Maryland, for the Main Heating Plant Environmental Compliance Upgrade project is approved for further development and construction.

APPROVAL OF A REVISED BUDGET AND FUNDING PLAN FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, which set a $126.7 million budget for the South Lawn Project with $61.1 million to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, approving the report from the Special Committee setting forth the project budget and scope; and

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities approved a revised budget and funding plan on October 28, 2002, for the South Lawn Project; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee at its December 18, 2002, meeting approved a new budget for the South Lawn project of $160 million, of which $94.4 million was to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage; and

WHEREAS, since the December 18, 2002, meeting the University and College Foundation agreed to a two-phased implementation plan for the building components south of Old Cabell Hall; and

WHEREAS, the College Foundation, as a part of the phasing plan, committed to a fund raising schedule for Phase I using a present value basis; and

WHEREAS, the College Foundation also committed to a $1.0 million supplement for the Cocke Hall renovation project to capture additional space and provide needed enhancements;

RESOLVED that the new budget for the South Lawn Project is now $160.9 million, of which $95.3 million is to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the building components south of Old Cabell Hall will be implemented in two phases with Phase I defined as 1) the buildings to be built on the B-1 parking lot, 2) parking for 400-500 cars, and 3) the plaza across Jefferson Park Avenue; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the total cost of Phase I is $87 million with a University commitment of $25.8 million and a College Foundation commitment of $61.2 million; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the College Foundation’s fund raising schedule for the Phase I project, which uses a present value basis and calls for 1/3 of the $61.2 million to be raised on or before April 30, 2004, 2/3 of the $61.2 million to be raised on or before December 31, 2005, and the full $61.2 million to be raised on or before December 31, 2006, is approved.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR WILLIAM L. ZIMMER, III
----------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, William L. Zimmer, III, a native of Petersburg, took the B.A. from the College in 1935 and the L.L.B. from the Law School in 1937, distinguishing himself in every way as a student; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer began the practice of law in Petersburg, but after service in the United States Navy during World War II, moved to Richmond and joined a law firm there; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer enjoyed a successful legal and business career and gave distinguished leadership to his city and state; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Holton in 1972 and reappointed by Governor Godwin in 1976; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer became Rector of the University in 1976 and served until his retirement from the Board in 1980; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer continued to serve the University in a variety of ways after he left the Board; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Zimmer died in Richmond on February 28, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of William L. Zimmer, III, takes note of his devotion and distinguished service to the University, and extends its condolences to Mr. Zimmer’s family.

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR EVANS BUTLER JESSEE
-------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, Evans Butler Jessee of Roanoke took the B.A. from the College in 1951 and the J.D. from the School of Law in 1954; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jessee practiced law in Roanoke for many years; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jessee served on the Board of Visitors from 1990 to 1997; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Jessee died on March 4, 2004;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors takes note of Evans Butler Jessee’s service to the University and to the Board, and expresses its deepest sympathy to his family.

REPORT ON ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the following action taken by the Executive Committee by telephone on March 1, 2004, to approve the meeting dates for the Board of Visitors for 2005:

The dates are as follows:

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period December 31, 2003, through February 29, 2004, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

APPOINTMENT OF EDWARD J. STEMMLER, M.D., TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors may appoint up to four public members of the Medical Center Operating Board whose initial terms are not to exceed four years;

RESOLVED, Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., of Albemarle County is appointed to fill an unexpired term on the Medical Center Operating Board, effective April 17, 2004, and ending July 1, 2006.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONSELECTIONSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE ELECTION OF MS. SIMONE E. SCHNALLACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS(a) Election of Chairholders (b) Special Salary Action of Chairholders (c) Resignation of Chairholder (d) Retirement of Chairholders (e) Election of Professors EmeritiSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSCHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. WALTER L. NEWSOMEAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITICHANGE IN THE EMERITUS TITLE FOR MR. WALTER L. NEWSOMEELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUSDEATHS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the title of the election of Ms. Simone E. Schnall as Research Associate Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective October 15, 2003, at an annual salary of $44,000 as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors, dated February 5-7, 2004, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The President announced that the title of the retirement of Mr. Walter L. Newsome, Associate Professor of Humanities and Social Sciences, effective June 24, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30-October 2, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

The President announced that the Emeritus title for Mr. Walter L. Newsome, Associate Professor of Humanities and Social Sciences, effective June 24, 2003, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated September 30-October 2, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced by the President:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONRESIGNATIONRETIREMENTAPPOINTMENTSELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person is elected to the faculty:

The following resignation was announced:

The following retirement was announced:

The following appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Paul D. Elosser, Professor of Mathematics, The University of Virginia's College at Wise, effective May 24, 2004.

AUTHORIZATION TO SEEK REZONING OF CURRIE PROPERTY
-------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Currie Property, a 205 acre property owned by the University of Virginia Foundation located in Haymarket in Prince William County, is currently zoned for agricultural use; and

WHEREAS, the Foundation filed an application with Prince William County to rezone the property as single family residential in May, 2003; and

WHEREAS, the deed conveying the Currie Property from the University to the University of Virginia Foundation requires the Foundation to seek the concurrence of the Board of Visitors prior to any transfer or other disposition of the property; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has endorsed pursuing the rezoning of the property to single family residential; and

WHEREAS, in order to proceed with the rezoning process, the University of Virginia Foundation must have the authority to negotiate with Prince William County;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves rezoning of the Currie Farm property at Haymarket in Prince William County, to single family residential; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Rector and the Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, is authorized, on behalf of the Board of Visitors, to approve proffers and other agreements by the University of Virginia Foundation regarding the rezoning and future development of the Currie Farm property at Haymarket in Prince William County.

ADDENDA TO THE DOCKET
---------------------

Having voted at the opening session of the full Board meeting to approve consideration of two items not on the published Agenda, the Board approved resolutions on the two items, both of which were recommended by the Finance Committee:

APPROVAL OF VARIABLE RATE DEBT POLICY
-------------------------------------

WHEREAS, variable rate debt has lower cost but higher risk than fixed rate debt; and

WHEREAS, the Board recognizes the importance of balancing risk and return; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board to preserve the University’s premier bond rating from Moody’s, Fitch and Standard & Poor’s, consistent with the University’s strategic objectives.

RESOLVED that the University’s variable rate debt will not comprise more than 40 percent of the total external debt portfolio of the University.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES, AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

REGULAR SESSION:

Undergraduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:

All Full-time Students

$ 5,964

$ 636

10.7%

$ 6,600

$ 21,984

$ 716

3.3%

$ 22,700

Graduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:

All Full-time Students

$ 7,856

$ 1,344

17.1%

$ 9,200

$ 19,964

$ 236

1.2%

$ 20,200

School of Medicine - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2004

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 26,074

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 36,633

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2003

$ 22,486

$ 1,688

7.5%

$ 24,174

$ 34,536

$ 2,097

6.1%

$ 36,633

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2002

$ 20,636

$ 1,538

7.5%

$ 22,174

$ 34,536

$ 2,097

6.1%

$ 36,633

Full-time Students Entering Fall 2001

$ 19,136

$ 1,438

7.5%

$ 20,574

$ 34,536

$ 2,097

6.1%

$ 36,633

Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

All Full-time Students

$ 28,220

$ 1,980

7.0%

$ 30,200

$ 33,220

$ 1,980

6.0%

$ 35,200

School of Law - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:

Students Entering Fall 2004

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 26,100

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 31,100

Students Entering Fall 2003

$ 23,798

$ 2,302

9.7%

$ 26,100

$ 29,128

$ 1,972

6.8%

$ 31,100

Students Entering Fall 2002

$ 22,598

$ 2,302

10.2%

$ 24,900

$ 29,128

$ 1,972

6.8%

$ 31,100

SPECIAL SESSION:

School of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition and Fees:

Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (per sem.)

$ 2,473

$ 180

7.3%

$ 2,653

$ 9,654

$ 180

1.9%

$ 9,834

Undergraduate Per Hour

$ 160

$ 25

15.6%

$ 185

$ 314

$ 11

3.5%

$ 325

Graduate Per Hour

$ 200

$ 25

12.5%

$ 225

$ 331

$ 29

8.8%

$ 360

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

School of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition and Fees (continued):

K-12 Educators Per Hour

$ 165

$ 35

21.2%

$ 200

$ 282

$ 18

6.4%

$ 300

Undergraduate Distance Learning Per Hour

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 225

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 300

Graduate Distance Learning Per Hour

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 250

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 300

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour

$ 304

$ 37

12.2%

$ 341

$ 576

$ 24

4.2%

$ 600

Special SCPS Students Per Hour

$ 225

$ 10

4.4%

$ 235

$ 991

$ -

0.0%

$ 991

Special SCPS Students Per Hour – High School Students

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 185

n/a

n/a

n/a

$ 325

Study Abroad (per semester) 3-7 hours

$ 2,000

$ -

0.0%

$ 2,000

$ 2,000

$ -

0.0%

$ 2,000

Study Abroad (per semester) 8-15 hours

$ 3,500

$ -

0.0%

$ 3,500

$ 3,500

$ -

0.0%

$ 3,500

Music Lessons (13 1-hr lessons/semester)

$ 630

$ 24

3.8%

$ 654

$ 630

$ -

0.0%

$ 654

Northern Virginia Facilities Fee Per Hour

$ 15

$ 2

13.3%

$ 17

$ 15

$ 2

13.3%

$ 17

Technology Fee (per hour)

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

2005 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 163

$ 7

4.3%

$ 170

$ 720

$ 20

2.8%

$ 740

Graduate Per Semester Hour

$ 180

$ 35

19.4%

$ 215

$ 649

$ 11

1.7%

$ 660

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$ 712

$ 138

19.4%

$ 850

$ 712

$ 138

19.4%

$ 850

Appellate Judges Program

$ 1,375

$ 25

1.8%

$ 1,400

$ 1,435

$ 15

1.0%

$ 1,450

Non-Resident Fee

$ 98

$ 17

17.3%

$ 115

$ 98

$ 17

7.3%

$ 115

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee

$ 86

$ 2

2.3%

$ 88

$ 86

$ 2

2.3%

$ 88

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Senior Investigators

$ 249

$ 6

2.4%

$ 255

$ 249

$ 6

2.4%

$ 255

Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Co-Investigators/Students

$ 65

$ 2

3.1%

$ 67

$ 65

$ 2

3.1%

$ 67

2005 New Student Orientation Fee

$ 190

$ -

0.0%

$ 190

$ 190

$ -

0.0%

$ 190

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

All Students

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

Application Fee – Undergraduate

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Application Fee – Graduate

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Application Fee – Law

$ 65

$ -

0.0%

$ 65

Application Fee – Darden

$ 140

$ -

0.0%

$ 140

Application Fee – Medicine

$ 75

$ -

0.0%

$ 75

Application Fee - SCPS

$ 25

$ -

0.0%

$ 25

Application Fee - SCPS BIS

$ 40

$ -

0.0%

$ 40

Application Fee - Commerce

$ -

$ 40

n/a

$ 40

Activity Fee – All Full-time Students

$ 39

$ 8

20.5%

$ 47

Activity Fee – All Part-time Students

$ 12

$ 5

41.7%

$ 17

Activity Fee – Arts & Sciences

$ 4

$ -

0.0%

$ 4

Activity Fee – Architecture

$ 46

$ -

0.0%

$ 46

Activity Fee – Commerce

$ 10

$ 35

350.0%

$ 45

Activity Fee – Darden

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Activity Fee – Education

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Engineering

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Grad. Arts & Sciences

$ 10

$ -

0.0%

$ 10

Activity Fee – Law School

$ 34

$ 6

17.6%

$ 40

Activity Fee – Medicine

$ 106

$ 19

17.9%

$ 125

Activity Fee – Nursing

$ 55

$ -

0.0%

$ 55

Residential College Fee – Hereford

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee – Brown

$ 120

$ -

0.0%

$ 120

Residential College Fee – International

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee – Mosaic

$ 220

$ -

0.0%

$ 220

Residential College Fee – French

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee – Spanish

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

Residential College Fee – Monroe Lane

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

International Student Fee

$ 100

$ -

0.0%

$ 100

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2004:

VirginianNon-Virginian2003-04 ApprovedAmount of IncreasePercent of Increase2004-05 Proposed2003-04 ApprovedAmount of IncreasePercent of Increase2004-05 ProposedREGULAR SESSION:Undergraduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:All Full-time Students$ 5,964$ 63610.7%$ 6,600$ 21,984$ 7163.3%$ 22,700Graduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school:All Full-time Students$ 7,856$ 1,34417.1%$ 9,200$ 19,964$ 2361.2%$ 20,200School of Medicine - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:Full-time Students Entering Fall 2004n/an/an/a$ 26,074n/an/an/a$ 36,633Full-time Students Entering Fall 2003$ 22,486$ 1,6887.5%$ 24,174$ 34,536$ 2,0976.1%$ 36,633Full-time Students Entering Fall 2002$ 20,636$ 1,5387.5%$ 22,174$ 34,536$ 2,0976.1%$ 36,633Full-time Students Entering Fall 2001$ 19,136$ 1,4387.5%$ 20,574$ 34,536$ 2,0976.1%$ 36,633Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:All Full-time Students$ 28,220$ 1,9807.0%$ 30,200$ 33,220$ 1,9806.0%$ 35,200School of Law - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees:Students Entering Fall 2004n/an/an/a$ 26,100n/an/an/a$ 31,100Students Entering Fall 2003$ 23,798$ 2,3029.7%$ 26,100$ 29,128$ 1,9726.8%$ 31,100Students Entering Fall 2002$ 22,598$ 2,30210.2%$ 24,900$ 29,128$ 1,9726.8%$ 31,100SPECIAL SESSION:School of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition and Fees:Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (per sem.)$ 2,473$ 1807.3%$ 2,653$ 9,654$ 1801.9%$ 9,834Undergraduate Per Hour$ 160$ 2515.6%$ 185$ 314$ 113.5%$ 325Graduate Per Hour$ 200$ 2512.5%$ 225$ 331$ 298.8%$ 360 VirginianNon-Virginian2003-04 ApprovedAmount of IncreasePercent of Increase2004-05 Proposed2003-04 ApprovedAmount of IncreasePercent of Increase2004-05 ProposedSchool of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition and Fees (continued):K-12 Educators Per Hour$ 165$ 3521.2%$ 200$ 282$ 186.4%$ 300Undergraduate Distance Learning Per Hourn/an/an/a$ 225n/an/an/a$ 300Graduate Distance Learning Per Hourn/an/an/a$ 250n/an/an/a$ 300Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour$ 304$ 3712.2%$ 341$ 576$ 244.2%$ 600Special SCPS Students Per Hour$ 225$ 104.4%$ 235$ 991$ -0.0%$ 991Special SCPS Students Per Hour – High School Studentsn/an/an/a$ 185n/an/an/a$ 325Study Abroad (per semester) 3-7 hours$ 2,000$ -0.0%$ 2,000$ 2,000$ -0.0%$ 2,000Study Abroad (per semester) 8-15 hours$ 3,500$ -0.0%$ 3,500$ 3,500$ -0.0%$ 3,500Music Lessons (13 1-hr lessons/semester)$ 630$ 243.8%$ 654$ 630$ -0.0%$ 654Northern Virginia Facilities Fee Per Hour$ 15$ 213.3%$ 17$ 15$ 213.3%$ 17Technology Fee (per hour)$ 4$ -0.0%$ 4$ 4$ -0.0%$ 42005 Summer Session and Mt. Lake Biological Station:Undergraduate Per Semester Hour$ 163$ 74.3%$ 170$ 720$ 202.8%$ 740Graduate Per Semester Hour$ 180$ 3519.4%$ 215$ 649$ 111.7%$ 660Thesis/Dissertation Research$ 712$ 13819.4%$ 850$ 712$ 13819.4%$ 850Appellate Judges Program$ 1,375$ 251.8%$ 1,400$ 1,435$ 151.0%$ 1,450Non-Resident Fee$ 98$ 1717.3%$ 115$ 98$ 177.3%$ 115Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee$ 40$ -0.0%$ 40$ 40$ -0.0%$ 40Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee$ 86$ 22.3%$ 88$ 86$ 22.3%$ 88Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Senior Investigators$ 249$ 62.4%$ 255$ 249$ 62.4%$ 255Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher - Co-Investigators/Students$ 65$ 23.1%$ 67$ 65$ 23.1%$ 672005 New Student Orientation Fee$ 190$ -0.0%$ 190$ 190$ -0.0%$ 190(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

OTHER: Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

OTHER CHARGES:

All Students2003-04 ApprovedAmount of IncreasePercent of Increase2004-05 ProposedApplication Fee – Undergraduate$ 40$ -0.0%$ 40Application Fee – Graduate$ 40$ -0.0%$ 40Application Fee – Law$ 65$ -0.0%$ 65Application Fee – Darden$ 140$ -0.0%$ 140Application Fee – Medicine$ 75$ -0.0%$ 75Application Fee - SCPS$ 25$ -0.0%$ 25Application Fee - SCPS BIS$ 40$ -0.0%$ 40Application Fee - Commerce$ -$ 40n/a$ 40Activity Fee – All Full-time Students$ 39$ 820.5%$ 47Activity Fee – All Part-time Students$ 12$ 541.7%$ 17Activity Fee – Arts & Sciences$ 4$ -0.0%$ 4Activity Fee – Architecture$ 46$ -0.0%$ 46Activity Fee – Commerce$ 10$ 35350.0%$ 45Activity Fee – Darden$ 55$ -0.0%$ 55Activity Fee – Education$ 10$ -0.0%$ 10Activity Fee – Engineering$ 10$ -0.0%$ 10Activity Fee – Grad. Arts & Sciences$ 10$ -0.0%$ 10Activity Fee – Law School$ 34$ 617.6%$ 40Activity Fee – Medicine$ 106$ 1917.9%$ 125Activity Fee – Nursing$ 55$ -0.0%$ 55Residential College Fee – Hereford$ 120$ -0.0%$ 120Residential College Fee – Brown$ 120$ -0.0%$ 120Residential College Fee – International$ 220$ -0.0%$ 220Residential College Fee – Mosaic$ 220$ -0.0%$ 220Residential College Fee – French$ 100$ -0.0%$ 100Residential College Fee – Spanish$ 100$ -0.0%$ 100Residential College Fee – Monroe Lane$ 100$ -0.0%$ 100International Student Fee$ 100$ -0.0%$ 100

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 2004-05 REGULAR SESSION OF THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Revised

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Revised

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

University Transit

$ 101

$ 10

9.9%

$ 111

$ 101

$ 10

9.9%

$ 111

Escort Services

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

Recreational Facilities

$ 204

$ 2

1.0%

$ 206

$ 204

$ 2

1.0%

$ 206

Auxiliary Debt Service

$ 93

$ (4)

\-4.3%

$ 89

$ 93

$ (4)

\-4.3%

$ 89

Athletics

$ 388

$ 62

16.0%

$ 450

$ 388

$ 62

16.0%

$ 450

Student Health

$ 298

$ 7

2.3%

$ 305

$ 298

$ 7

2.3%

$ 305

Newcomb Hall Operating

$ 109

$ 3

2.8%

$ 112

$ 109

$ 3

2.8%

$ 112

Student Programming

$ 26

$ -

0.0%

$ 26

$ 26

$ -

0.0%

$ 26

WTJU

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

OOS Debt Service - Capital Outlay

$ -

$ -

0.0%

$ -

$ 50

$ 9

18.0%

$ 59

Capital Renewal Fee

$ 24

$ -

0.0%

$ 24

$ 24

$ -

0.0%

$ 24

Arts Fee

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

$ 12

$ -

0.0%

$ 12

Technology Fee

$ 45

$ -

0.0%

$ 45

$ 45

$ -

0.0%

$ 45

E&G Facilities Debt Service

$ 30

$ 1

3.3%

$ 31

$ 30

$ 1

3.3%

$ 31

TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

$1,341

$ 81

6.0%

$1,422

$1,391

$ 90

6.5%

$1,481

RESOLVED that the annual required fees for students enrolled in more than 3 credit hours per semester be established, effective July 1, 2004, in the amount of $1,422 for in-state students and $1,481 for out-of-state students; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer may adjust the required fees if the final 2004-06 Appropriations Act includes a requirement that out-of-state students contribute to maintenance reserve debt service costs; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the full-time mandatory regular session fee be allocated for 2004-05 as follows:

APPROVAL OF ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR THE 2004-05 SPECIAL SESSIONS OF THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

University Transit

$ 22

$ 3

13.6%

$ 25

$ 22

$ 3

13.6%

$ 25

Escort Services

$ 2

$ -

0.0%

$ 2

$ 2

$ -

0.0%

$ 2

Recreational Facilities

$ 22

$ -

0.0%

$ 22

$ 22

$ -

0.0%

$ 22

Newcomb Hall Operating

$ 21

$ 1

4.8%

$ 22

$ 21

$ 1

4.8%

$ 22

WTJU

$ 1

$ -

0.0%

$ 1

$ 1

$ -

0.0%

$ 1

OOS Debt Service - Capital Outlay

$ -

$ -

0.0%

$ -

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

Classroom Renewal Fee

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

Technology Fee

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

$ 5

$ -

0.0%

$ 5

Arts Fee

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

$ 6

$ -

0.0%

$ 6

E&G Facilities Debt Service

$ 2

$ 1

50.0%

$ 3

$ 2

$ 1

50.0%

$ 3

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL

$ 87

$ 5

5.7%

$ 92

$ 92

$ 5

5.4%

$ 97

Student Health

$ 97

$ 5

5.2%

$ 102

$ 97

$ 5

5.2%

$ 102

SPECIAL SESSION TOTAL- Summer Session

$ 184

$ 10

5.4%

$ 194

$ 189

$ 10

5.3%

$ 199

RESOLVED that the special session fees for the Academic Division be established, effective with the Fall 2004 session, in the amount of $92 for in-state students and $97 for out-of-state students; and

RESOLVED that the students enrolled in the summer session will also be assessed a fee for services provided by Student Health, effective Summer 2005, in the amount of $102; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer may adjust the Special Session Fees if the final 2004-06 Appropriations Act includes a requirement that out-of-state students contribute to maintenance reserve debt service costs; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the mandatory special session fee be allocated for 2004-05 as follows:

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

2003-04 Approved

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

2004-05 Proposed

Full-time Students (12 hrs or more per semester)

Tuition and Required E&G Fees

$ 2,681

$ 159

5.9%

$ 2,840

$ 11,619

$ 691

5.9%

$ 12,310

Auxiliary Fees

$ 1,850

$ 92

5.0%

$ 1,942

$ 1,850

$ 92

5.0%

$ 1,942

Total Tuition and Required Fees

$ 4,531

$ 251

5.5%

$ 4,782

$ 13,469

$ 783

5.8%

$ 14,252

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

Other Charges

Part-time Students (less than 12 hours per semester)

$108

$7

6.5%

$ 115

$475

$29

6.1%

$ 504

Off-Campus Instruction per hour

$108

$7

6.5%

$ 115

$333

$20

6.0%

$ 353

Non-Credit Courses per unit

$47

$3

6.4%

$ 50

$144

$9

6.3%

$ 153

Application Fee

$25

$0

0.0%

$ 25

$25

$0

0.0%

$ 25

Graduation Fee

$50

$0

0.0%

$ 50

$50

$0

0.0%

$ 50

A Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour.

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University of Virginia’s College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2004:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for residents of Kentucky and Tennessee who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.4:2.F. of the Code of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:10 a.m.

The following actions taken by Board Committees since the meeting of the full Board in February, 2004, do not require action by the full Board and are listed here as a matter of record:

MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
---------------------------------------------

The Medical Center Operating Board met on February 19, 2004, and approved a number of routine resolutions regarding clinical staff at the Medical Center. The full text of these is listed in the Attachment to these Minutes.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BY TELEPHONE, ON MARCH 1, 2004
---------------------------------------------------

The Executive Committee approved the Board meeting dates for 2005 (see supra).

ACTIONS OF THE UVIMCO BOARD
---------------------------

The Board of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO), March 16, 2004 –

Authorized the allocation of $50million to the existing allocation to the Boston Company

Confirmed the hiring of Standish Mellon for the Internal Bond Portfolio and the Aggregate Cash Account.

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, APRIL 15, 2004
-----------------------------------------------

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: April 16-17, 2004CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

ATTACHMENT ABOARD COMMITTEE LISTATTACHMENT ACOMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 2004
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE

Georgia M. Willis, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

Terence P. Ross

Warren M. Thompson

BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

Mark J. Kington, Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Susan Y. Dorsey

Lewis F. Payne

Terence P. Ross

Thomas A. Saunders, III

EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

Don R. Pippin, Chair

Susan Y. Dorsey

James W. Head

L.F. Payne

Terence P. Ross

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

John O. Wynne

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Mark J. Kington

Terence P. Ross

Thomas A. Saunders, III

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

W. Heywood Fralin, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Glynn D. Key

Lewis F. Payne

Thomas A. Saunders, III

BOARD COMMITTEES - continued

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Thomas A. Saunders, III, Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

W. Heywood Fralin

Mark J. Kington

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair

H. Christopher Alexander, III

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Eugene V. Fife

Lewis F. Payne

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Katherine L. Smallwood, M.D.

Edward J. Stemmler, M.D.

Ex Officio Advisory Members:

George A. Beller, M.D.

Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D.

R. Edward Howell

Leonard W. Sandridge

STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Chair

Susan Y. Dorsey

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

W. Heywood Fralin

James W. Head

Glynn D. Key

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

Georgia M. Willis

COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair

Thomas F. Farrell, II

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

Don R. Pippin

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY

Warren M. Thompson, Chair

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

James W. Head

Glynn D. Key

Lewis F. Payne

Georgia M. Willis

John O. Wynne

BOARD COMMITTEES - continued

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY

John O. Wynne, Chair

A. Macdonald Caputo

Peter F. Dolan

Christine P. Gustafson

Mark J. Kington

Leonard W. Sandridge

Thomas A. Saunders, III

Matthew G. Thompson

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Ex Officio

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Ex Officio

AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEEGeorgia M. Willis, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Don R. Pippin Terence P. Ross Warren M. Thompson BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEMark J. Kington, Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Susan Y. Dorsey Lewis F. Payne Terence P. Ross Thomas A. Saunders, III EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEDon R. Pippin, Chair Susan Y. Dorsey James W. Head L.F. Payne Terence P. Ross E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. John O. Wynne EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEGordon F. Rainey, Jr., Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Mark J. Kington Terence P. Ross Thomas A. Saunders, III EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEEW. Heywood Fralin, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Glynn D. Key Lewis F. Payne Thomas A. Saunders, III BOARD COMMITTEES - continuedFINANCE COMMITTEEThomas A. Saunders, III, Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II W. Heywood Fralin Mark J. Kington Warren M. Thompson Georgia M. Willis John O. Wynne MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARDE. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Chair H. Christopher Alexander, III William G. Crutchfield, Jr. Eugene V. Fife Lewis F. Payne Gordon F. Rainey, Jr. Thomas A. Saunders, III Katherine L. Smallwood, M.D. Edward J. Stemmler, M.D. Ex Officio Advisory Members: George A. Beller, M.D. Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D. R. Edward Howell Leonard W. Sandridge STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEThomas F. Farrell, II, Chair Susan Y. Dorsey G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. W. Heywood Fralin James W. Head Glynn D. Key Don R. Pippin Warren M. Thompson Georgia M. Willis COMMITTEE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISEWilliam G. Crutchfield, Jr., Chair Thomas F. Farrell, II G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. Don R. Pippin SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITYWarren M. Thompson, Chair G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. James W. Head Glynn D. Key Lewis F. Payne Georgia M. Willis John O. Wynne BOARD COMMITTEES - continuedUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANYJohn O. Wynne, Chair A. Macdonald Caputo Peter F. Dolan Christine P. Gustafson Mark J. Kington Leonard W. Sandridge Thomas A. Saunders, III Matthew G. Thompson Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Ex OfficioThomas F. Farrell, II, Ex Officio

The Rector, Mr. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., is an ex officio member of all committees.

ATTACHMENT BCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS February 19, 2004 ATTACHMENT BCREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS February 19, 20041. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF2. LOCUM TENENS APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF3. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF4. SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF5. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF6. RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF7. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS8. RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS9. STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS10. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the appointment as locum tenens for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges for the following practitioner is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in privileges of the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:
