---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2005'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JULY 29-30, 2005
-------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of Legislative Proposal

6960

Naming of the East Addition to Campbell Hall, The School of Architecture

6965

Naming of Medical Research Building 6

6965

Election of David J. Prior as Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

6966

Election of Randl L. Shure as a Public Member of the Medical Center Operating Board

6966

Adoption of the National Incident Management System

6966

Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

6968

PAGE Approval of Legislative Proposal6960Naming of the East Addition to Campbell Hall, The School of Architecture 6965Naming of Medical Research Building 66965 Election of David J. Prior as Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise6966Election of Randl L. Shure as a Public Member of the Medical Center Operating Board6966 Adoption of the National Incident Management System6966Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions6968

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 29-30, 2005
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in retreat and in Open Session, at 1:00 p.m., Friday, July 29, 2005 in the Mountain Inn at Wintergreen in Nelson County; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided.

A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, Ms. Catherine S. Neale, and W. Heywood Fralin, Vice Rector, were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Ms. Carol Wood, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

REPORTS BY THE BOARD COMMITTEE CHAIRS ON GOALS OF THEIR COMMITTEES, AND DISCUSSION OF THEIR WORK PLANS FOR ACHIEVING THESE GOALS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The first item on the Agenda was a discussion, in Open Session and led by the respective Board Committee chairs, on the goals of their committees and their work plans for achieving these goals. The written statements of these goals and work plans are on file in the Board Office.

At the conclusion of the Chairs’ reports, the Rector gave brief summations and then suggested additional items some of the Committees might want to consider. These were as follows:

Buildings & Grounds: the Committee should provide the Board with a list of University building projects, projected and in progress.

Diversity: the procurement goals of the Committee should be revisited at the winter meeting of the Board and possibly restated. The Committee should present to the Board at the fall meeting a plan for this reconsideration.

Educational Policy: issues of student advising should be a goal of the Committee; also graduate student funding.

External Affairs: the Committee should examine questions of diversity on the Foundation boards and the Foundation guidelines must be reviewed with this in mind. A plan to educate students in the importance of stewardship before their fourth year is to be developed. Mr. Sweeney is to address the importance of small gifts in the next report of this Committee to the full Board.

Finance: the diversity of firms the University does business with should be a concern of the Committee.

MCOB: “Land use” for the Medical Center must be considered by the Committee.

Student Affairs: consideration of graduation rates for athletes should be among the Committee’s goals. The Committee should work with the External Affairs Committee on questions of funding for athletics. A work plan for the athletics portion of the Committee’s work plan must be done. Consideration of alcohol and drug programs should be among the Committee’s goals.

Wise: Information is needed on diversity at Wise. Mr. Prior will have to approve the Committee’s goals once he arrives to take up his duties as Chancellor.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

At 4:55 p.m., after adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session:

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to review, discuss and evaluate performance including performance goals and objectives of the University’s President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate gift development strategy and capital campaign and fund- raising activity on behalf of the University to ensure excellence and sustained progress, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(4), (6) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed for dinner at 5:40, resumed at 8:00 p.m. – still in Executive Session - and recessed at 10:00 p.m.

The Board resumed, once more in Executive Session, at 9:00 a.m., Saturday, September 30th, and continued until 9:45 a.m. when, after adopting the following resolution attesting to the legality of its deliberations in Executive Session, it resumed meeting in Open Session:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
---------------------

The President, citing examples he had observed on recent trips to Southeast Asia, led a brief discussion on the growing importance of American universities’ presence abroad, particularly in Southeast Asia. Typically, he said, these consist of programs established in cooperation with host governments. More and more, American universities in the top rankings are establishing such programs.

He concluded that the University must think of new ways of establishing an international presence.

Mr. Wynne asked if the President could give the Board a paper outlining the benefits to the University of programs of this sort.

The Board concluded its Retreat Agenda at 10:00 a.m. and held a short business session, adopting the following resolutions:

APPROVAL OF LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL
--------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves and endorses the proposed legislation to create an exception to the current state conflicts of interests statute, allowing public institutions of higher education to purchase the collections or scholarly works of an employee, including manuscripts, musical scores, poetry, research, paintings, books, and other materials, writings or papers of academic, research or cultural value to the institution, provided the president approves the acquisition as being in the best interests of the institution’s public mission of service, research and education. The proposed legislation, which follows, would extend an existing exemption for public institutions of higher education:

§ 2.2-3106. Prohibited contracts by officers and employees of state government and Eastern Virginia Medical School.

A. No officer or employee of any governmental agency of state government or Eastern Virginia Medical School shall have a personal interest in a contract with the governmental agency of which he is an officer or employee, other than his own contract of employment.

B. No officer or employee of any governmental agency of state government or Eastern Virginia Medical School shall have a personal interest in a contract with any other governmental agency of state government unless such contract is (i) awarded as a result of competitive sealed bidding or competitive negotiation as defined in § 2.2-4301 or (ii) is awarded after a finding, in writing, by the administrative head of the governmental agency that competitive bidding or negotiation is contrary to the best interest of the public.

C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:

1\. An employee's personal interest in additional contracts of employment with his own governmental agency that accrue to him because of a member of his immediate family, provided the employee does not exercise any control over the employment or the employment activities of the member of his immediate family and the employee is not in a position to influence those activities;

2\. The personal interest of an officer or employee of a state institution of higher education or the Eastern Virginia Medical School in additional contracts of employment with his own governmental agency that accrue to him because of a member of his immediate family, provided (i) the officer or employee and the immediate family member are engaged in teaching, research or administrative support positions at the educational institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School, (ii) the governing board of the educational institution finds that it is in the best interests of the institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School and the Commonwealth for such dual employment to exist, and (iii) after such finding, the governing board of the educational institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School ensures that the officer or employee, or the immediate family member, does not have sole authority to supervise, evaluate or make personnel decisions regarding the other;

3\. An officer's or employee's personal interest in a contract of employment with any other governmental agency of state government;

4\. Contracts for the sale by a governmental agency or the Eastern Virginia Medical School of services or goods at uniform prices available to the general public;

5\. An employee's personal interest in a contract between a public institution of higher education in Virginia or the Eastern Virginia Medical School and a publisher or wholesaler of textbooks or other educational materials for students, which accrues to him solely because he has authored or otherwise created such textbooks or materials; and an employee’s personal interest in a contract with his or her employing public institution of higher education to acquire the collections or scholarly works owned by the employee, including manuscripts, musical scores, poetry, research, paintings, books and other materials, writings or papers of academic, research or cultural value to the institution provided the president approves the acquisition as being in the best interests of the institution’s public mission of service, research and education.

6\. Subject to approval by the board of visitors, an employee's personal interest in a contract between the Eastern Virginia Medical School or a public institution of higher education in Virginia that operates a school of medicine or dentistry and a not-for-profit nonstock corporation that operates a clinical practice within such public institution of higher education or the Eastern Virginia Medical School and of which such employee is a member or employee;

7\. Subject to approval by the relevant board of visitors, an employee's personal interest in a contract for research and development or commercialization of intellectual property between a public institution of higher education in Virginia or the Eastern Virginia Medical School and a business in which the employee has a personal interest, if (i) the employee's personal interest has been disclosed to and approved by such public institution of higher education or the Eastern Virginia Medical School prior to the time at which the contract is entered into; (ii) the employee promptly files a disclosure statement pursuant to § 2.2- 3117 and thereafter files such statement annually on or before January 15; (iii) the institution has established a formal policy regarding such contracts, approved by the State Council of Higher Education or, in the case of the Eastern Virginia Medical School, a formal policy regarding such contracts in conformity with any applicable federal regulations that has been approved by its board of visitors; and (iv) no later than December 31 of each year, the institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School files an annual report with the Secretary of the Commonwealth disclosing each open contract entered into subject to this provision, the names of the parties to each contract, the date each contract was executed and its term, the subject of each contractual arrangement, the nature of the conflict of interest, the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's employee responsible for administering each contract, the details of the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's commitment or investment of resources or finances for each contract, and any other information requested by the Secretary of the Commonwealth; or

8\. Subject to approval by the relevant board of visitors, an employee's personal interest in a contract between a public institution of higher education in Virginia or the Eastern Virginia Medical School and a business in which the employee has a personal interest, if (i) the personal interest has been disclosed to the institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School prior to the time the contract is entered into; (ii) the employee files a disclosure statement pursuant to § 2.2-3117 and thereafter annually on or before January 15; (iii) the employee does not participate in the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's decision to contract; (iv) the president of the institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School finds and certifies in writing that the contract is for goods and services needed for quality patient care, including related medical education or research, by the institution's medical center or the Eastern Virginia Medical School, its affiliated teaching hospitals and other organizations necessary for the fulfillment of its mission, including the acquisition of drugs, therapies and medical technologies; and (v) no later than December 31 of each year, the institution or the Eastern Virginia Medical School files an annual report with the Secretary of the Commonwealth disclosing each open contract entered subject to this provision, the names of the parties to each contract, the date each contract was executed and its term, the subject of each contractual arrangement, the nature of the conflict of interest, the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's employee responsible for administering each contract, the details of the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's commitment or investment of resources or finances for each contract, and any other information requested by the Secretary of the Commonwealth;.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivisions C 7 and C 8, if the research and development or commercialization of intellectual property or the employee's personal interest in a contract with a business is subject to policies and regulations governing conflicts of interest promulgated by any agency of the United States government, including the adoption of policies requiring the disclosure and management of such conflicts of interests, the policies established by the Eastern Virginia Medical School pursuant to such federal requirements shall constitute compliance with subdivisions C 7 and C 8, upon notification by the Eastern Virginia Medical School to the Secretary of the Commonwealth by January 31 of each year of evidence of their compliance with such federal policies and regulations.

E. The board of visitors may delegate the authority granted under subdivision C 7 to the president of the institution. If the board elects to delegate such authority, the board shall include this delegation of authority in the formal policy required by clause (iii) of subdivision C 7. In those instances where the board has delegated such authority, on or before December 1 of each year, the president of the relevant institution shall file a report with the relevant board of visitors disclosing each open contract entered into subject to this provision, the names of the parties to each contract, the date each contract was executed and its term, the subject of each contractual arrangement, the nature of the conflict of interest, the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's employee responsible for administering each contract, the details of the institution's or the Eastern Virginia Medical School's commitment or investment of resources or finances for each contract, the details of how revenues are to be dispersed, and any other information requested by the board of visitors.

(1987, Sp. Sess., c. 1, § 2.1-639.6; 1989, c. 74; 1991, c. 470; 1993, c. 876; 1995, c. 403; 1998, c. 838; 2001, c. 844; 2002, cc. 87, 478; 2003, c. 646.)

NAMING OF THE EAST ADDITION TO CAMPBELL HALL, THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors on November 8, 1996, declared its intent to name, at some time in the future, an addition to Campbell Hall in honor of Mr. Victor Elmaleh of New York; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Elmaleh and his wife have made a generous contribution to the construction of the east addition to Campbell Hall;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the east addition to Campbell Hall the Victor and Sono Elmaleh East Addition, and thanks Mr. and Mrs. Elmaleh for their generosity and support of the School of Architecture.

NAMING OF MEDICAL RESEARCH BUILDING 6
-------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Beirne Carter Foundation has made generous gifts over the years in support of immunology research at the University of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Rossie Carter Hutchison and the Beirne Carter Foundation together have made a very generous contribution toward the construction of Medical Research Building 6; and

WHEREAS, the Harrison Family Foundation, among its numerous benefactions to the University, has committed significant funds toward the construction of Medical Research Building 6;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names Medical Research Building 6 the Carter-Harrison Research Building, and thanks Mrs. Hutchison, the Beirne Carter Foundation and the Harrison Family Foundation for their generosity and support.

ELECTION OF DAVID J. PRIOR AS CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, David J. Prior is elected Chancellor of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, effective September 1, 2005. His appointment shall be for a term of five years.

ELECTION OF RANDL L. SHURE AS A PUBLIC MEMBER OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors on June 11, 2005, adopted a resolution permitting the addition of another public member to the Medical Center Operating Board, that person to be elected by the Board of Visitors;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors elects Mr. Randl L. Shure, of Charlottesville, a member of the Medical Center Operating Board. Mr. Shure’s appointment is effective August 1, 2005 and will run to June 30, 2009.

ADOPTION OF THE NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
---------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the President of the United States, in Homeland Security Directive (HSPD)-5, directed the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to develop and administer a National Incident Management System, which would provide a consistent nationwide approach for Federal, State, and local governments to work together more effectively and efficiently to prevent, prepare for, respond to and recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that all Federal, State, and local emergency agencies and personnel coordinate their efforts to effectively and efficiently provide the highest levels of incident management; and

WHEREAS, to do this, it is critical that Federal, State, and local organizations utilize standardized terminology, standardized organizational structures, interoperable communications, consolidated action plans, unified command structures, uniform personnel qualification standards, uniform standards for planning, training, and exercising, comprehensive resource management, and designated incident facilities during emergencies or disasters; and

WHEREAS, the National Incident Management System operational standards will improve the University's ability to utilize federal funding to enhance local agency readiness, maintain first responder safety, and streamline incident management processes; and

WHEREAS, the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks recommended adoption of a standardized Incident Command System;

RESOLVED, that the National Incident Management System is established as the University of Virginia standard for incident management.

APPOINTMENT OF JAMES H. AYLOR AS DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board heard a report from the President on the appointment of James H. Aylor as Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science. No Board action was required.

REPORT ON CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS AT THE MEDICAL CENTER
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

As a matter of record, the Board was informed of the credentialing and recredentialing actions at the Medical Center, approved by the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board. It is not necessary for these actions to be approved by the full Board of Visitors.

CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS 1. NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF 2. REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF 3. STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF 4. PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 5. RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 6. STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 7. RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 12, 2005, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional is approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

SETTING OF DATE TO APPROVE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS
------------------------------------------------

The Board must approve the Management Agreements negotiated between the University and the Commonwealth as one of the terms of the Restructuring Act; the Agreements must be in Richmond by October 1st, and Mr. Sandridge said the approval thus must be given before the fall Board of Visitors meeting. It was agreed that the Board will meet before the Duke football game on September 24th, the time yet to be determined.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:15 a.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: July 29-30, 2005 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.
