---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2005'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
March 31, 2005 MEMORANDUM
-------------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector

Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

A. MacDonald Caputo

Lewis F. Payne

Alan A. Diamonstein

Don R. Pippin

Susan Y. Dorsey

Warren M. Thompson

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.

W. Heywood Fralin

Georgia M. Willis

Glynn D. Key

John O. Wynne

Mark J. Kington

James W. Head

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Minutes of the Orientation Session for New Board Members on March 31, 2005

AGG:lah

Copies to:

John T. Casteen, III Leonard W. Sandridge Ms. Catherine S. Neale

TO:The Board of Visitors: Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr. A. MacDonald Caputo Lewis F. Payne Alan A. Diamonstein Don R. Pippin Susan Y. Dorsey Warren M. Thompson G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. W. Heywood Fralin Georgia M. Willis Glynn D. Key John O. Wynne Mark J. Kington James W. Head FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. SUBJECT:Minutes of the Orientation Session for New Board Members on March 31, 2005

An orientation session for new Board Members was conducted, in Open Session, from 11:10 a.m. to 12:35 p.m. in the Lower West Oval Room of the Rotunda on Thursday, March 31, 2005. The new Members were A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, and Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., as well as Ms. Catherine Neale, the Student Member-elect. The session was conducted by Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, John T. Casteen, III, President of the University, Leonard W. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Paul J. Forch, General Counsel, Gene D. Block, Vice President and Provost, and ,Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Secretary to the Board. Don R. Pippin, Member of the Board, was present as well.

The general topics discussed at the orientation were as follows:

Orientation Session - March 31, 2005

In addition, the new Members were given written summaries of each Vice President’s areas of responsibilities.
