---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2006'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 29, 2006

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS SEPTEMBER 29-30, 2006
------------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the June 9th and July 28-29, 2006 Meetings of the Board

7161

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

7161

Establishment of the Professorship in Palliative Care in the School of Medicine

7163

Establishment of the Ivy Foundation Pratt Distinguished Professorship in Morphogenesis in the School of Medicine

7164

Naming of the Ivy Foundation Translational Research Building

7164

Naming of the Barry and Bill Battle Building at the University of Virginia's Children's Hospital

7165

Naming of the Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center

7165

Approval of Architect Selection for the New Dining Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7167

Approval of Architect Selection for the New Residence Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7167

Resolution Commending Mr. William Sublette

7167

Approval of the 2007 Amendments to the 2006-2008 Biennial Budget for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7168

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Relocation of Transformer and Installation of Underground Electrical Wires for the Nursing Education Building

7170

Approval of a Permanent Easement for Relocation of Overhead Electrical Wires for Observatory Hill First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing Phase 1)

7170

PAGE

Approval to Change the Name of the Department of Psychiatric Medicine to the Department of Psychiatry And Neurobehavioral Sciences in the School of Medicine

7171

Approval of Addition to the Chancellor's Residence at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7171

Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

7171

Approval of Addition to the Chancellor's Residence at The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7173

Approval of Capital Lease for the Medical Center Long-Term Acute Care Hospital Parking

7173

Approval of Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt

7174

Approval to Divest $2,233,000 from the Athletics General Operations Quasi-Endowment to Fund Costs of the Academic Center and the Club/Media Room in the John Paul Jones Multipurpose Arena

7176

Approval of Signatory Authority for Medical Center Procurement of Blood Products

7176

Approval of the Revisions to the Charter and By-Laws of the Regional Criminal Justice Training Academy

7177

Approval of the 2007 Amendments to the 2006-2008 Biennial Budget for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7177

Appointment to the Board of The University of Virginia's College at Wise

7178

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

7178

Resolution Authorizing Property Acquisition and Swap

7178

Acquisition of 500 Valley Road, Charlottesville

7179

Divestment of Funds in Companies That Do Business With the Government of Sudan

7180

PAGE

Resolution Commending the Campaign Executive Committee and Campaign Workers

7182

Report of Actions of the Executive Committee

7182

1\. Approval of the Jones Fountain at the Darden School

7182

2\. Provision of Financial Planning Services for the President

7183

3\. Extension of the Lease on Pavilion I, West Lawn

7183

4\. Extension of the Lease on Pavilion V, West Lawn

7183

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7184

Change in the Term of the Election of Ms. Tatiana Globus

7192

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7192

Change in the Title of Chairholders

7195

Special Salary Action of Chairholders

7196

Retirement of Chairholders

7197

Resignation of Chairholders

7197

Special Salary Actions

7198

Resignations

7203

Retirements

7206

Appointments

7206

Re-Appointments

7207

Re-election of Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs

7208

Election of Professors Emeriti

7208

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

7208

Deaths

7209

The University of Virginia's College at Wise

Elections

7210

Promotions

7210

Special Salary Actions

7211

Endorsement of Capital Campaign and Setting of the Campaign Goal

7212

Commending Leonard W. Sandridge; Naming theLeonard W. Sandridge Portal at the John Paul Jones Arena and Sandridge Road

7213

PAGE

Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, July, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7216

Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, September, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7216

PAGEApproval of the Minutes of the June 9th and July 28-29, 2006 Meetings of the Board7161Resolution for Additions to the Agenda7161Establishment of the Professorship in Palliative Care in the School of Medicine7163Establishment of the Ivy Foundation Pratt Distinguished Professorship in Morphogenesis in the School of Medicine7164Naming of the Ivy Foundation Translational Research Building7164Naming of the Barry and Bill Battle Building at the University of Virginia's Children's Hospital7165Naming of the Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center7165Approval of Architect Selection for the New Dining Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise7167Approval of Architect Selection for the New Residence Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise7167Resolution Commending Mr. William Sublette7167Approval of the 2007 Amendments to the 2006-2008 Biennial Budget for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise7168Approval of a Permanent Easement for Relocation of Transformer and Installation of Underground Electrical Wires for the Nursing Education Building7170Approval of a Permanent Easement for Relocation of Overhead Electrical Wires for Observatory Hill First Year Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing Phase 1)7170 PAGEApproval to Change the Name of the Department of Psychiatric Medicine to the Department of Psychiatry And Neurobehavioral Sciences in the School of Medicine 7171 Approval of Addition to the Chancellor's Residence at The University of Virginia's College at Wise 7171 Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations 7171 Approval of Addition to the Chancellor's Residence at The University of Virginia's College at Wise 7173 Approval of Capital Lease for the Medical Center Long-Term Acute Care Hospital Parking 7173 Approval of Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt 7174 Approval to Divest $2,233,000 from the Athletics General Operations Quasi-Endowment to Fund Costs of the Academic Center and the Club/Media Room in the John Paul Jones Multipurpose Arena 7176 Approval of Signatory Authority for Medical Center Procurement of Blood Products 7176 Approval of the Revisions to the Charter and By-Laws of the Regional Criminal Justice Training Academy 7177 Approval of the 2007 Amendments to the 2006-2008 Biennial Budget for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise 7177 Appointment to the Board of The University of Virginia's College at Wise 7178 Approval of Summary of Audit Findings 7178 Resolution Authorizing Property Acquisition and Swap 7178 Acquisition of 500 Valley Road, Charlottesville 7179 Divestment of Funds in Companies That Do Business With the Government of Sudan 7180 PAGEResolution Commending the Campaign Executive Committee and Campaign Workers7182Report of Actions of the Executive Committee71821. Approval of the Jones Fountain at the Darden School71822. Provision of Financial Planning Services for the President71833. Extension of the Lease on Pavilion I, West Lawn71834. Extension of the Lease on Pavilion V, West Lawn7183Faculty Personnel ActionsElections7184Change in the Term of the Election of Ms. Tatiana Globus7192Actions Relating to ChairholdersElection of Chairholders7192Change in the Title of Chairholders7195Special Salary Action of Chairholders7196Retirement of Chairholders7197Resignation of Chairholders7197Special Salary Actions7198Resignations7203Retirements7206Appointments7206Re-Appointments7207Re-election of Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs7208Election of Professors Emeriti7208Election of Associate Professors Emeriti7208Deaths7209The University of Virginia's College at WiseElections7210Promotions7210Special Salary Actions7211Endorsement of Capital Campaign and Setting of the Campaign Goal7212Commending Leonard W. Sandridge; Naming theLeonard W. Sandridge Portal at the John Paul Jones Arena and Sandridge Road 7213 PAGE Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, July, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions 7216 Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board, September, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions 7216

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS September 29-30, 2006
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:00 a.m., Friday, September 29, 2006, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. All Members were present (Mesdames Dorsey, Fauber, Key, and Mullen; and Messrs. Fralin, Abramson, Caputo, Diamonstein, Fitz-Hugh, Mastracco, Payne, Pippin, Rainey, Thompson, Vaughan, and Wynne).

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, James L. Hilton, Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, William B. Harvey, David J. Prior, Kenneth A. Schwartz, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked Ms. Key to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE 9TH AND JULY 28-29, 2006 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the Minutes of the meetings of the Board held on June 9th, and July 28th-29th, were approved.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA
--------------------------------------

The Rector called for a motion to permit the consideration of business presented after the publication of the Agenda.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda for consideration by the Board.

ACC CERTIFICATION
-----------------

In fulfillment of annual requirements of both the Atlantic Coast Conference and the National Collegiate Athletics Association, the Rector read a statement certifying that direction of the athletics programs at the University is under the President. He reminded the Board that he was not only required to read the statement, but to sign - and forward to the ACC - a certification that he had done so.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT
-----------------------------------------------

Noting that the most important item of business of both the Board meeting and the weekend was the public launch of the Capital Campaign, the President limited his remarks to the customary Gifts and Grants Report.

Figures for the fiscal year which ended June 30th, are in - the philanthropic cash flow was $230.1million, an increase of 25.4% over the previous year.

The figure for the first two months of the current fiscal year, which is to say, through August 31st, stands at $23.4million, or 1% below the figure for the same period last year. Nonetheless, the Medical School, Arts & Sciences, the College at Wise and Rector and Visitors all show increases over last year.

Among the gifts cited by the President was the $45million pledge payment from the Ivy Foundation to the Medical School (see Professorships and Namings, below); a $4,970,763.13 pledge payment to the McIntire School Foundation for the School's building campaign; a gift of $2,500,000 from Anheuser-Busch; a $2million bequest to the Medical School from the estate of David Allen Mayhugh; and a $2million grant from the Wallace Foundation, to be divided between the Curry School and the Darden School for the Executive Leadership Program for Senior- Level Educators.

Significant new pledges included $2,750,000 from John L. Nau, III, and Mrs. Barbara Elizabeth Nau to Arts & Sciences for the South Lawn Project; $2,500,000 from David E. Gibson, also for the South Lawn Project; and $2million from Terrence D. Daniels and Mrs. Courtney S. Daniels for the South Lawn Project.

And finally, a pledge of $1,987,052 from Wachovia Bank, N.A. for the John Paul Jones Arena.

On motion, the Board voted to accept the Gifts and Grants Report.

At 10:15 a.m., the Board recessed to move to the Dome Room of the Rotunda.

PROFESSORSHIPS AND NAMINGS ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROFESSORSHIP IN PALLIATIVE CARE IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE IVY FOUNDATION PRATT DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN MORPHOGENESIS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE NAMING OF THE IVY FOUNDATION TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH BUILDING NAMING OF THE BARRY AND BILL BATTLE BUILDING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL NAMING OF THE EMILY COURIC CLINICAL CANCER CENTER
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, in the Dome Room at 10:25 a.m., to consider a group of resolutions creating professorships and naming buildings. An unusually large number of guests were present.

The following resolutions were adopted:

WHEREAS, the Center for Humanism in Medicine, under the direction of Dr. Daniel Becker, works to foster and sustain the humanistic impulses that draw students, medical residents, and faculty to medicine; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Becker and the Center teach residents and fellows about palliative care and the art of home health care visits; and

WHEREAS, John W. Kluge and the John W. Kluge Foundation, together with other generous donors, have provided funds for a professorship which both recognizes the work of Dr. Becker and supports the expansion of his program in palliative care;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Professorship in Palliative Care, to be held in the Department of Medicine in the School of Medicine, thanks John W. Kluge for this latest instance of his generosity to the University, and expresses its appreciation to the other donors whose support has made the Professorship possible.

WHEREAS, the Ivy Foundation, under the chairmanship of the Honorable William C. Battle, has made generous commitments to the School of Medicine to help create the Morphogenesis and Regenerative Medicine Institute; and

WHEREAS, the Ivy Foundation gift has enabled the establishment of two Distinguished Professorships in the Department of Pediatrics and startup money for research in morphogenesis; and

WHEREAS, the University, using funds designated by the late John Lee Pratt in his bequest to the University for the support of research in the School of Medicine, has matched the gift of the Ivy Foundation; and

WHEREAS, these matching funds have been designated for a chair to support research in morphogenesis;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Ivy Foundation Pratt Distinguished Professorship in Morphogenesis, to be held in the School of Medicine, and thanks the Ivy Foundation and its Chair, Mr. Battle, for their generosity and support.

WHEREAS, the Ivy Foundation has given $45million to the University of Virginia Health System, the largest capital gift in the history of the Health System; and

WHEREAS, the Foundation's gift is to be applied to three capital projects in the Health System, with the largest portion going toward a new translational research building;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the new translational research building in the Health System the Ivy Foundation Translational Research Building, and expresses its profound appreciation, once again, to the Ivy Foundation for its continuing generosity and support.

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. William C. Battle of Albemarle County have been tireless and effective advocates for children's health in Central Virginia for many years; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Battle has been involved with the Children's Hospital for over twenty years, having been the first Chair of the newly formed Children's Medical Center Committee in the early 1980s and most recently a member of the Children's Hospital Campaign Steering Committee; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Battle is Chair of the Ivy Foundation, part of whose recent and very generous gift to the University is to be applied toward the construction of a new Children's Hospital outpatient clinical building;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the new Children's Hospital outpatient clinical building the Barry and Bill Battle Building at the University of Virginia Children's Hospital, in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Battle; the Board thanks Mr. and Mrs. Battle for their support and leadership over the years in the cause of children's health, and once again expresses its appreciation to the Ivy Foundation whose gift has made the construction of this building possible.

WHEREAS, The Honorable Emily Couric represented Charlottesville and Albemarle County, and adjacent areas, in the Virginia Senate and was both an extremely effective legislator and a leader of statewide importance, as well as a supporter of the University; and

WHEREAS, Senator Couric was a tireless advocate of cancer research; and

WHEREAS, Senator Couric died of cancer in 2001; and

WHEREAS, the Ivy Foundation has made a generous gift toward the construction of the Clinical Cancer Center, a number of friends of Senator Couric and supporters of cancer research at the University have given funds, and the Governor and the General Assembly have made a generous appropriation;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the Clinical Cancer Center the Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center, pays tribute to Senator Couric's memory, and thanks the Ivy Foundation and other generous contributors, as well as the Governor and General Assembly of Virginia, for the support which has made the construction of the Clinical Cancer Center possible.

The Board recessed at 11:00 a.m., to return to the Board Room on the main floor of the Rotunda.

COMMITTEE REPORTS BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE NEW DINING HALL AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE APPROVAL OF ARCHITECT SELECTION FOR THE NEW RESIDENCE HALL AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEEXTERNAL AFFAIRS RESOLUTION COMMENDING MR. WILLIAM SUBLETTE FINANCE APPROVAL OF THE 2007 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2006-2008 BIENNIAL BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board resumed its meeting, in Open Session, at 11:10 a.m., to hear reports from the Committee Chairs.

The Chairs reported on resolutions adopted by their respective Committees in meetings on September 11th, and 12th. Three Chairs, those of Buildings and Grounds, External Affairs, and Finance, called their Committees into brief session to consider resolutions on matters requiring immediate action.

The Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, Mr. Payne, presented two resolutions, one approving the selection of an architect for the new Dining Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise, and the other approving the selection of an architect for the new Residence Hall, also at Wise. Neither resolution required approval by the full Board, but both are entered on these Minutes as a matter of record.

The following resolutions were approved by the Committee:

RESOLVED that Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas, of Norfolk, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the New Dining Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

RESOLVED that Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas, of Norfolk, is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the New Residence Hall at The University of Virginia's College at Wise.

Mr. Caputo, the Chair of the External Affairs Committee, asked his committee to approve a resolution commending Mr. William Sublette, Director of University Publications and Development Communications, who is leaving the University on October 3rd, to work for the Southern Environmental Law Center in Charlottesville.

The following resolution, which does not go to the full Board, was approved by the Committee:

WHEREAS, William Sublette joined the University of Virginia in March, 1979 as an Information Officer in the Office of University Relations; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette subsequently worked as Editor of The University of Virginia Alumni News; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette in 1994 joined the Development and Public Affairs Office, eventually becoming Director of University Publications and Development Communications; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette, during the entirety of his time at the University, has never hesitated to lend a hand where needed, even though those needs might be far removed from his stated duties; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette has consistently turned out work of superior quality; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette is a veteran of all three of the University's Capital Campaigns; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sublette is leaving the University on October 3, 2006;

RESOLVED, the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia thanks William Sublette for his support and for his service to the University and wishes him every success as he begins his new career with the Southern Environmental Law Center.

Mr. Fralin, Chair of the Finance Committee, and Mr. Sandridge, presented a resolution approving operating and capital amendments to the state Budget for 2006-2008; these must be sent to Richmond before the next meeting of the Board.

On motion, the following resolution was approved and recommended to the full Board for approval:

WHEREAS, the 2007 operating and capital budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the amendments represent the highest priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the proposed amendments to the 2006- 2008 biennial budget; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor's revised 2006-2008 biennial budget, the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session at 11:35 a.m.:

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, and disclosure of any material litigation risk, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session for the purpose of discussing performance and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss and receive a report on the status of negotiations concerning the acquisition and possible swap of specific real estate located in the greater Charlottesville area, as well as to discuss investing and divesting the managed endowment of the University in companies transacting business overseas, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University's financial interests and negotiations as permitted by Section 2.2- 3711 (A) (3), (6), and (21) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 12:00 noon for lunch and resumed its meeting, once more in Executive Session, at 1:00 p.m.

After adopting a resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions granted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed in Open Session at 1:30 p.m.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

FINAL SESSION APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR RELOCATION OF TRANSFORMER AND INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL WIRES FOR THE NURSING EDUCATION BUILDING (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR RELOCATION OF OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL WIRES FOR OBSERVATORY HILL FIRST YEAR RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING PHASE 1) (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRIC MEDICINE TO THE DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRY AND NEUROBEHAVIORAL SCIENCES IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE (approved by the Educational Policy Committee on September 12, 2006) APPROVAL OF ADDITION TO THE CHANCELLOR'S RESIDENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on July 27, 2006) APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS(approved by the External Affairs Committee on September 12, 2006) APPROVAL OF ADDITION TO THE CHANCELLOR'S RESIDENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE(approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF CAPITAL LEASE FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER LONG-TERM ACUTE CARE HOSPITAL PARKING (approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF INTENT TO ISSUE TAX EXEMPT DEBT (approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL TO DIVEST $2,233,000 FROM THE ATHLETICS GENERAL OPERATIONS QUASI-ENDOWMENT TO FUND COSTS OF THE ACADEMIC CENTER AND THE CLUB/MEDIA ROOM IN THE JOHN PAUL JONES MULTIPURPOSE ARENA(approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF SIGNATORY AUTHORITY FOR MEDICAL CENTER PROCUREMENT OF BLOOD PRODUCTS (approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF THE REVISIONS TO THE CHARTER AND BY-LAWS OF THE REGIONAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE TRAINING ACADEMY(approved by the Finance Committee on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF THE 2007 AMENDMENTS TO THE 2006-2008 BIENNIAL BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE (approved by the Committee on The University of Virginia's College at Wise on September 11, 2006) APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS (approved by the Audit and Compliance Committee on September 11, 2006)RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND SWAP ACQUISITION OF 500 VALLEY ROAD, CHARLOTTESVILLE DIVESTMENT OF FUNDS IN COMPANIES THAT DO BUSINESS WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN RESOLUTION COMMENDING THE CAMPAIGN EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND CAMPAIGN WORKERS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

Alumni Association of the University of Virginia

Glynn D. Key

05/30/08

Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund

J. Davis Hamlin

12/31/08

The College Foundation of the University of Virginia

Timothy B. Robertson

12/31/08

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

The University of Virginia's College at Wise Alumni Association and Wise Foundation

Don R. Pippin

06/30/07

Curry School of Education

Georgia Willis Fauber

12/31/09

Darden School Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

12/31/09

Foundation of the State Arboretum at Blandy Experimental Farm

Laura F. Hawthorne

12/31/08

Healthcare Partners, Inc.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/10

University of VirginiaHealth Services Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

12/31/08

Jefferson Institute for Lifelong Learning (JILL)

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

12/31/09

Law School Alumni Association and Law School Foundation, University of Virginia

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

12/31/08

McIntire School of Commerce Foundation

Georgia Willis Fauber

06/30/07

Medical School Alumni Association and Medical School Foundation, University of Virginia

Sam D. Graham, Jr., M.D.

05/31/09

Miller Center Foundation

Thomas F. Farrell, II

06/30/07

Patent Foundation, University of Virginia

Terence P. Ross

06/30/07

Rare Book School

Karin Wittenborg

12/31/09\*

School of Architecture Foundation

Susan Y. Dorsey

06/30/07

University of Virginia Foundation and Subsidiaries

W. Heywood Fralin

06/30/08

University of Virginia Health Foundation

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

06/30/07

University of Virginia Investment Management Corporation

John O. Wynne

06/30/08

\* Denotes ratification required by the Board of Visitors

Foundation

Board of Visitors Representative

Term Ending

Virginia Engineering Foundation

Kenneth M. Humphries

12/31/09

Virginia Athletic Foundation

Craig K. Littlepage

12/31/09

Virginia Tax Foundation, Inc.

Joseph E. Gibson

12/31/08

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Main Heat Plant Environmental Upgrade (supplement)

Rouss Hall Renovation (supplement)

MEDICAL CENTER

Children's Medical Center (supplement)

Hospital Expansion Project (supplement)

COLLEGE AT WISE

Student Residence III

New Dining Facility

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Main Heat Plant Environmental Upgrade (supplement): $9,164,000 (cumulative authorization = $28.964 million)

Rouss Hall Renovation (supplement): $6,900,000 (cumulative authorization = $39.9 million)

MEDICAL CENTER

Children's Medical Center (supplement): $4 million (cumulative authorization = $15 million)

Hospital Expansion Project (supplement): $9.6 million (cumulative authorization = $95.2 million)

COLLEGE AT WISE

Student Residence III: $8,000,000

New Dining Facility: $7,000,000

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

RESOLVED, the Board approves the granting of a permanent easement to Dominion Power to provide for the relocation of a transformer, and the installation of underground electrical lines and equipment for the benefit of the Nursing Education School on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

RESOLVED, the Board approves the granting of a permanent easement to Dominion Virginia Power to provide for the relocation of overhead lines, poles, and equipment to facilitate the construction of the Observatory Hill First Year Resident Hall on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

RESOLVED, the name of the Department of Psychiatric Medicine is changed to the Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences in the School of Medicine.

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the construction of an addition to the Chancellor's Residence at The University of Virginia's College at Wise. The addition is budgeted at $1.28 million, to be funded entirely by private gifts.

RESOLVED that the following persons are ratified or confirmed as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-Related Foundations:

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the construction of an addition to the Chancellor's Residence of approximately 1600 square feet at The University of Virginia's College at Wise. The addition is budgeted at $1.28 million, to be funded entirely by private gifts.

WHEREAS, the Medical Center has determined that it is cost- effective to add 40 long-term acute care beds to a facility off- site from the University Hospital; and

WHEREAS, the Kirtley Family Holdings desires to lease 3.5 acres and improvements to the University of Virginia on a long- term basis with an eventual purchase;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves a 40-year capital lease for the property located at 2985 Ivy Road, with an initial annual cost of $240,000, to be increased at three percent annually, and a purchase price of $6 million at the end of the term contingent on successful conclusion of a due diligence period; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all contracts and documents pertaining to the capital lease of the aforementioned property.

WHEREAS, the University intends to undertake the following capital projects utilizing tax-exempt debt as a funding source:

WHEREAS, the United States Department of the Treasury has promulgated final regulations in Section l.l50-2 of the Treasury Regulations governing when the allocation of bond proceeds to reimburse expenditures previously made by a borrower shall be treated as an expenditure of the bond proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the Regulations require a declaration of official intent by a borrower to provide evidence that the borrower intended to reimburse such expenditures with proceeds of its debt; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia desires to make such a declaration of official intent as required by the Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the University may be required to provide short- term financing to each project prior to issuing long-term debt in order to implement an efficient and timely construction schedule; and

WHEREAS, the University has funding mechanisms to accommodate short-term financing needs, defined as a period of less than sixty months; and

WHEREAS, the authority for the University to enter into financing arrangements exceeding sixty months in maturity for each project listed is not included in this resolution; and

WHEREAS, if the University arranges short-term financing for a particular project, and if the project is not ultimately completed, or if the project utilizes funding sources other than debt, then the appropriate school or unit remains responsible for refunding the short-term obligation;

RESOLVED that, pursuant to the terms of the Treasury Regulations, the University of Virginia declares its intent to reimburse expenditures in accordance with the following:

RESOLVED FURTHER that each project is a separate enterprise independent of other projects, and that the authorization for funding relates to each individual project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, funds may be borrowed for each project on a short-term basis, but only if the following conditions are met:

WHEREAS, the Athletics department requests the divestment of $2,233,000 from the Athletics General Operations Quasi-Endowment to fund the costs of the academic center and the club/media room in the John Paul Jones Multipurpose Arena;

RESOLVED that the Board authorizes the divestment of $2,233,000 of the Athletics General Operations Quasi- Endowment to fund the cost to fit-out the academic center and the club/media room in the John Paul Jones Multipurpose Arena.

RESOLVED, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute a contract for the procurement of blood products, based on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center and in accordance with Medical Center procurement policy.

WHEREAS, the University is a member of the Central Shenandoah Criminal Justice Training Academy, which provides training and education in criminal justice to the University's law enforcement personnel; and

WHEREAS, the Central Shenandoah Criminal Justice Training Academy's Charter and By-Laws, adopted in 1998, became out of date and required revision to comply with current law and operating procedures; and

WHEREAS, each member organization must approve revisions to the Charter and By-Laws of the Central Shenandoah Criminal Justice Training Academy;

RESOLVED, pursuant to Va. Code §15.2-1747, the revised Charter and By-Laws of the Central Shenandoah Criminal Justice Training Academy, a copy of which is attached to this resolution and incorporated herein by reference, is adopted; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that this resolution shall become effective upon adoption; and

RESOLVED FURTHER by its adoption of this revised Charter and By-Laws, the University evidences its commitment to the training needs of its law enforcement personnel. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood that the University will assume no expense or financial obligation of the Central Shenandoah Criminal Justice Training Academy except as may be duly authorized by University officials.

WHEREAS, the 2007 operating and capital budget amendments have been carefully reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the amendments represent the highest priority initiatives and are aligned with the mission of the institution;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia endorses and supports the proposed amendments to the 2006-2008 biennial budget; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors understands that to the extent these initiatives are not included in the Governor's revised 2006-2008 biennial budget, the Academic Division and The University of Virginia's College at Wise may want to pursue similar requests to the legislature; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to transmit to the General Assembly any request not funded by the Governor as long as there are no material differences from the items already endorsed by the Board of Visitors.

RESOLVED that Charlie R. Jessee is appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for a four-year term ending June 30, 2010, in accordance with the terms of the Board's Bylaws.

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period May 1, 2006, through July 31, 2006, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

WHEREAS, the University intends to expand its medical facilities to accommodate the need for additional office and laboratory space and parking; and

WHEREAS, an opportunity has arisen to swap properties in order to acquire the necessary land adjacent to the Health System facilities;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to negotiate, or work with the University of Virginia Foundation to negotiate, with the review and concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee, the purchase of suitable property to use as a swap for properties in the vicinity of the Health System, and to engage in a swap, or work with the University of Virginia Foundation to swap, properties in order to acquire properties within the vicinity of Health System facilities; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer is authorized to execute any and all documents necessary to effect a purchase of property for swap purposes, and to effect the swap transaction.

WHEREAS, to accomplish the University's plans for development of the South Lawn it is necessary to acquire 500 Valley Road, a 8,316 foot lot in Charlottesville containing a 11⁄2 story house; and

WHEREAS, the owner of 500 Valley Road is interested in swapping the property for a property of equivalent value; and

WHEREAS, the University owns property at 1308 Wertland Street in Charlottesville, which is of substantially equivalent value to the property at 500 Valley Road; and

WHEREAS, the owner of 500 Valley Road has agreed to a swap of 500 Valley Road for the property at 1308 Wertland Street;

RESOLVED that the acquisition of 500 Valley Road is authorized; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the disposition of 1308 Wertland Street is authorized as a swap for the benefit of the South Lawn project; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the swap transaction may be accomplished through the University of Virginia Foundation; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the Chair of the Finance Committee, is authorized to take any actions and to execute any and all documents necessary to accomplish the acquisition of 500 Valley Road, including the disposition of 1308 Wertland Street as a swap transaction.

WHEREAS, the Board has a fiduciary obligation to invest the University's endowment prudently and for the benefit of the University; and

WHEREAS, the threshold for divestment based on factors other than business reasons must be very high and should not be taken lightly. The corporate action about which the complaint is made must be gravely offensive and cause much social injury, and the Board finds that the situation in Sudan exceeds this threshold; and

WHEREAS, there is clear and mounting evidence that the government of Sudan is committing genocide against the people of its Darfur region; and

WHEREAS, approximately 400,000 people have been tortured and killed, and some 2.5 million displaced in and around Darfur; and

WHEREAS, on July 22, 2004, the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives unanimously adopted a joint resolution declaring the atrocities in Darfur to be genocide; on September 9, 2004, Secretary of State Colin Powell declared that genocide had been committed, and quite possibly still was being committed, in Darfur; on June 1, 2005, President Bush reiterated that the U.S. government believes genocide is taking place in Darfur; and a January 2005 report by the United Nations condemned the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed militias for committing "serious violations of international human rights and humanitarian law", and Sudanese government officials may have committed genocidal acts; and

WHEREAS, the Finance Committee has determined that divestment of investments in multinational companies that directly support the activities of the Sudanese government is an appropriate response to the situation in Darfur because a number of multinational companies, particularly in the energy and telecommunications fields, provide the government of Sudan with substantial financial resources and the infrastructure to continue the sponsorship of genocidal actions in Darfur; and

WHEREAS, although the University does not currently have direct investments in such companies, the Board's action shall preclude future direct investment in these companies; and

WHEREAS, this targeted divestment strategy is intended to indicate disapproval of the actions of the Sudanese government without causing harm to innocent Sudanese citizens.

RESOLVED, that the Board requests that the University of Virginia Investment Management Company (UVIMCO) divest any and all direct investments managed by UVIMCO, in multinational companies identified as having direct business ties to the Sudanese government or companies whose business activities are in direct support of these companies and the activities of the government. The following are the specific criteria for companies targeted for divestment:

RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above resolution shall expire September 29, 2011, unless renewed by the Board.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors and the University are preparing to launch The Campaign for the University of Virginia, an extraordinary undertaking to begin this day; and

WHEREAS, active preparation for the Campaign had been underway for three years under the direction of the Campaign Executive Committee, an able and dedicated group of volunteers whose work has been an expression of their devotion to the University; and

WHEREAS, the Campaign Executive Committee is being assisted by some five hundred volunteers and the two hundred fifty members of the Development community at the University; and

WHEREAS, among the five hundred alumni and friends who are volunteers is the committee which has been at work for two years to plan the Gala set for September 30th, the centerpiece and culmination of this weekend in celebration of the launching of the Campaign; and

WHEREAS, the weekend and the Gala show every promise of great success, and of being an occasion never to be forgotten in the annals of the University;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks the Campaign Executive Committee and all of the volunteers and the members of the Development community at the University for their dedication, unselfish service, and hard work, and congratulates them for this most auspicious beginning of The Campaign for the University of Virginia.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE • APPROVAL OF THE JONES FOUNTAIN AT THE DARDEN SCHOOL(approved June 16, and 19, 2006) • PROVISION OF FINANCIAL PLANNING SERVICES FOR THE PRESIDENT(approved July 29, 2006)• EXTENSION OF THE LEASE ON PAVILION I, WEST LAWN(approved July 29, 2006)• EXTENSION OF LEASE ON PAVILION V, WEST LAWN(approved September 25, and 26, 2006)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee in a telephonic poll on June 16, and 19, 2006, and at its meeting on July 29, 2006:

WHEREAS, the Class of 1974 of the Darden School has initiated a landscaping project at the School, the Class of 1974 Garden Project; and

WHEREAS, an element of the Project is a fountain to be erected at the south end of the Flagler Courtyard of the Darden Grounds; and

WHEREAS, it is proposed that this fountain be named the Jones Fountain in honor of the contributions of Elizabeth and Gary T. Jones (MBA '74);

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the placement and erection of the Jones Fountain at the Darden School, and thanks Mr. and Mrs. Jones, and other members of the Darden Class of 1974, for their support and generosity.

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors authorizes the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to approve financial planning services for the President, not to exceed the limit of the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer's contractual authority.

RESOLVED, the lease on Pavilion I, West Lawn, for David W. Breneman, Dean of the Curry School of Education, set to expire within one year after his retirement from the deanship, is extended to the fall of 2009, two years beyond his retirement. This extension reflects his new duties as Director of the Public Policy Program.

RESOLVED, the lease on Pavilion V, West Lawn, held by Mr. and Mrs. Gene D. Block, is renewed for a second five years. The new lease will run from the Winter of 2007 to the Winter of 2012.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONS CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE ELECTION OF MS. TATIANA GLOBUS ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS (a) Election of Chairholders (b) Change of Title of Chairholders (c) Special Salary Action of Chairholders (d) Retirement of Chairholders (e) Resignation of Chairholders SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS RESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTS RE-APPOINTMENTS RE-ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY AS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITIELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI DEATHS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the term of the election of Ms. Tatiana Globus as Research Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, for the period July 25, 2003, through November 24, 2006, at an annual salary of $81,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated October 3-4, 2003, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

Dr. Angela B. Amin, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 2, 2006, for personal reasons.

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. Robert D. Sweeney is re-elected as Senior Vice President for Development and Public Affairs, for five years, effective June 25, 2006.

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISEELECTIONSPROMOTIONSSPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The Board recessed at 1:35 p.m., to go to Cabell Hall for the ceremonial launching of the Capital Campaign.

CEREMONIAL SESSIONENDORSEMENT OF CAPITAL CAMPAIGN AND SETTING OF THE CAMPAIGN GOAL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The meeting resumed in the Cabell Hall Auditorium at 2:00 p.m.; all Members of the Board were present.

The purpose of the Cabell Hall meeting was the ceremonial launching of The Campaign for the University of Virginia. Members were led into the Auditorium by the Grand Marshal of the University, bearing the Mace. Mr. Rainey, as National Chair of the Campaign spoke about the purpose and scope of the Campaign; the President emphasized the importance of the Campaign to the University; and the Rector accepted the challenge of the Campaign, as well as the Campaign goal of $3billion.

The Rector proposed the following resolution, which was moved and seconded:

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia has set goals of excellence and pre-eminence among institutions of higher learning in this country; and

WHEREAS, substantial philanthropic support is necessary for the University to maintain its present high standing among peer universities and to attain the goals it has set; and

WHEREAS, the University must rely on the generosity of its alumni and friends for this support; and

WHEREAS, the University is embarking on a major capital campaign to meet these needs, a campaign with a recommended goal of $3 billion;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors endorses The Campaign for the University of Virginia and establishes a goal of $3 billion, this goal to be subject to adjustment as the Board may from time to time find justified in light of the Campaign's successes; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its gratitude to those whose contributions have led to the early completion of the first third of this goal, and calls on all those who love the University to work toward the success of the Campaign.

The Rector directed the Secretary to take a roll call vote. All Members voted "aye" and the resolution was approved.

The Rector recessed the meeting at 2:30 p.m.

SOUTH LAWN GROUNDBREAKING
-------------------------

Members then attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the South Lawn Project, which was held in the B-1 Parking Lot, across Jefferson Park Avenue from New Cabell Hall.

SESSION AT THE CAMPAIGN GALACOMMENDING LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE; NAMING THE LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE PORTAL AT THE JOHN PAUL JONES ARENA AND SANDRIDGE ROAD
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The meeting resumed during the Campaign Kickoff Gala in the John Paul Jones Arena at 10:45 p.m., Saturday, September 30, 2006; all Members of the Board were present.

After calling the meeting back into session, the Rector proposed the following resolution, which was moved by Mr. Fralin:

WHEREAS, Leonard W. Sandridge, First Citizen of Crozet, began his long and illustrious career at the University of Virginia in 1967 as an Internal Auditor; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge advanced through the ranks, always holding positions of responsibility, to his present job as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, a title that describes only in small part his duties and can only hint at what he does for the University, day in and day out; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge has served four Presidents of the University, under two of them as a Vice President, and has been relied upon by all four of them for his probity, good sense, sound vision, and competence; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge is known and respected throughout the University for his hard work, his fair mindedness and his devotion above all to the good of the institution; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge is known, too, for his modesty and his reluctance to claim credit for the things he does; and

WHEREAS, admirers of Mr. Sandridge have banded together to make possible a naming in his honor, suggesting a portion of the John Paul Jones Arena;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the entrance to the John Paul Jones Arena the Leonard W. Sandridge Portal; further, the Board names the access road from the By-Pass to Massie Road, Sandridge Road; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, in so doing, the Board salutes the First Citizen of Crozet and joins the entire community in thanking him for all he has done, and continues to do, for the University of Virginia.

The Rector then directed the Secretary to take a roll call vote. All Members voted "aye," and the motion was carried.

The Rector remarked that as the John Paul Jones Arena has become known as "The Jack," he assumed the Leonard W. Sandridge Portal will become known as "The Leonard."

The Rector adjourned the meeting at 10:55 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: September 29, 2006CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session - as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia - only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, JULY 2006 (ATTACHMENT A)MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, SEPTEMBER 2006 (ATTACHMENT B)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

ATTACHMENT ARESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD JULY 2006CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS OF CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 12, 2005, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Clinical Staff are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT BRESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD SEPTEMBER 2006CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSSTATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 12, 2005, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:
