---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2007'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 27-28, 2007
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in retreat, on Friday and Saturday, July 27, and 28, 2007, at The Hotel Roanoke in Roanoke. W. Heywood Fralin, Rector, presided over all sessions.

John O. Wynne, Daniel R. Abramson, A. Macdonald Caputo, the Honorable Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Thomas F. Farrell, II, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., the Honorable Lewis F. Payne, Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., and Carey J. Mignerey were present.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., participated by telephone.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., Ms. Carol Wood, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Craig K. Littlepage, Milton Adams, George Stovall, Benjamin Y. Cooper, IV, Ms. Julie Caruccio, Justin Watkins, and Keith D. Vanderbeek, were present for portions of the Retreat.

Charles W. Steger, the President of Virginia Tech, was present briefly on the morning of July 28th, as a special guest.

The Retreat began at 12:10 p.m., on Thursday, July 27th.

The Rector opened the first session with general remarks on what he sees as the Board goals over the next two years, goals that will be his during his term as Rector. Implementation of the plans to be proposed by Messrs. Wynne and Caputo special committees will be important, and there will be a continuing emphasis on diversity. The Board must continue to focus on the Capital Campaign and make sure that it will exceed expectations, with the opportunity to raise perhaps $4billion, $1billion over the present Campaign goal.

Particular emphasis, he said, must be placed on the College, the "backbone of this University and we must focus on providing the necessary resources for it to be the best it can be, preparing our students for a global economy."

He went on to say that as specified in the University's long range plan, there must be a strengthening of the focus on research, a focus which includes support for graduate students, faculty, and the need for new facilities.

The University must expand on its successes at The University of Virginia at Wise to provide educational opportunities for more students; these efforts are vital to the economic well being and development of Southwest Virginia.

The Rector said that support for the principles of diversity, and improvement of diversity at the University, "must be at the top of our list of goals." He noted that the long range plan for the University, soon to be finished, must be implemented and not allowed to languish.

Work must be done, too, on identifying a successor to Mr. Sandridge.

Finally, the Rector emphasized the proper role of the Board: the President and Mr. Sandridge are charged with running the University on a day to day basis, with the Board providing advice and oversight.

Mr. Diamonstein remarked, however, that the Board should not be a "rubberstamping" body. The Rector agreed, but said there should be a balance between the role of the Board on one hand and that of the administration on the other.

Mr. Wynne stressed the importance of developing, soon, criteria for priorities.

The Board then heard a presentation on planning, as is being developed by the Special Committee on Planning. Ms. Sheehy, Messrs. Adams and Stovall, Dr. Garson, and Mr. Wynne, the Committee Chair, all participated.

Following this portion of the Retreat, the President and Mr. Sandridge, the Chief Operating Officer, commented briefly on their annual reports.

Among other topics, the President noted his concerns about the low rate of participation in mathematics courses by incoming students. He pointed out the correlation between this and low enrollments in science courses.

Mr. Rainey, National Chair of the Capital Campaign, and Mr. Sweeney discussed the possibility of raising the Campaign goal, as suggested in the Rector's opening remarks. The Rector proposed that the Campaign Executive Committee consider the matter and make a recommendation to the Board.

On motion, the Board went into Executive Session at 2:30 p.m.

That in connection with the University Capital Campaign and beyond, the Special Committee on Foundations go into Closed Session to discuss and to further consult with the General Counsel, seeking his continued legal advice and guidance in the matters of gift development and coordination of fund-raising activity, costs and expenditures with University-Related Foundations, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) ( 4), (6), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 3:40 p.m., and adopted the following resolution certifying that its discussions in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board then held a short business session, during which the following resolutions were adopted:

APPROVAL OF LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL
--------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves and endorses the proposed legislation to exempt sensitive donor information from public disclosure pursuant to the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act.

The proposed legislation, which follows, would amend § 2.2-3705.4 of the Code of Virginia:

§2.2-3705.4. Exclusions to application of chapter; educational records and certain records of educational institutions.

The following records are excluded from the provisions of this chapter but may be disclosed by the custodian in his discretion, except where such disclosure is prohibited by law:

1\. Scholastic records containing information concerning identifiable individuals, except that such access shall not be denied to the person who is the subject thereof, or the parent or legal guardian of the student. However, no student shall have access to (i) financial records of a parent or guardian or (ii) records of instructional, supervisory, and administrative personnel and educational personnel ancillary thereto, that are in the sole possession of the maker thereof and that are not accessible or revealed to any other person except a substitute.

The parent or legal guardian of a student may prohibit, by written request, the release of any individual information regarding that student until the student reaches the age of 18 years. For scholastic records of students under the age of 18 years, the right of access may be asserted only by his legal guardian or parent, including a noncustodial parent, unless such parent's parental rights have been terminated or a court of competent jurisdiction has restricted or denied such access. For scholastic records of students who are emancipated or attending a state-supported institution of higher education, the right of access may be asserted by the student.

Any person who is the subject of any scholastic record and who is 18 years of age or older may waive, in writing, the protections afforded by this subdivision. If the protections are so waived, the public body shall open such records for inspection and copying.

APPOINTMENT OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVE TO THE INSTITUTE FOR SHIPBOARD EDUCATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia became the academic sponsor of the Institute for Shipboard's Education Semester at Sea program by agreement dated December 12, 2005; and

WHEREAS, this agreement states that the Institute for Shipboard Education will add two voting members to its Board of Directors, one appointed by and representing the Board of Visitors, the other a member of the senior administration of the University of Virginia appointed by and representing the President; and

WHEREAS, Gene D. Block resigned his appointment as the Board of Visitors appointee effective June 30, 2007; and

WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Provost of the University plays an important role in the relationship with the Institute for Shipboard Education because of the academic sponsorship.

RESOLVED, the Board appoints Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., to serve as the Board of Visitors representative to the Board of Directors of the Institute for Shipboard Education for a term of three years.

APPROVAL OF APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA COLLEGE AT WISE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that Mr. Roger C. Viers be appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for a four-year term ending June 30, 2011 in accordance with the terms of the Board bylaws.

APPROVAL OF SCHEV ENROLLMENT PROJECTIONS
----------------------------------------

ENROLLMENT GOALS

Fall2007

Fall2008

Fall2009

Fall2010

Fall2011

Fall2012

Fall2013

1936

1957

1983

2003

2030

2052

2077

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the enrollment projections for The University of Virginia College at Wise for the fall of 2007 through the fall of 2013, as recommended by The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board.

Enrollment Data provided by the Office of Admissions, Registrar Office, and the Institutional Research Office. \*FTF means full-time freshmen.

Ms. Key, as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee, gave a presentation on technology transfer, focusing on the marketing of technology developed at the University. At the end of her presentation, it was agreed that she, the Provost, the Vice President for Research, and Mr. Sandridge would study the problems in this regard and report back to the Board.

The Board recessed at 4:35 p.m.

The Board resumed its Retreat, in Open Session, at 8:15 a.m., on Saturday, July 28th, and met with Mr. Charles Steger, the President of Virginia Tech. Mr. Steger thanked the Board for the University's support in the aftermath of the tragic events at Blacksburg in April, talked a bit about Virginia Tech's role in the state, and mentioned his school's many joint ventures and other cooperative efforts with the University.

At the conclusion of his remarks, at 8:40 a.m., the Board went into Executive Session after adopting the following motion:

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to review with the Chair of the Honor Committee the Committee's procedures and specific student cases and to discuss same with the General Counsel, seeking his legal advice and guidance in connection therewith, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (2) and (7) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed its meeting in Open Session at 10:40 a.m., and adopted the following resolution certifying that its meeting in Executive Session had been held in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board then heard a presentation by Mr. Littlepage, Director of Athletics, and Mr. Vanderbeek, Associate Athletic Director for Business Operations, on Athletics financing and operations. They went into some detail on revenues and expenses, both at present and projected, and on the finances of the John Paul Jones Arena. Mr. Littlepage talked, too, of other concerns: facility needs — both new capital projects and renovations and maintenance, the recruiting and retention of coaches and staff, and so on.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: July 27-28, 2007

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration were discussed in closed session.
