---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '2007'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 12, 2007

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 12, 2007ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRANK BATTEN SCHOOL OF LEADERSHIP AND PUBLIC POLICY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, as a body, met at 11:45 a.m., Thursday, April 12, 007, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda for a reception and lunch and a special ceremony. All Members of the Board were present, as were a number of special guests.

The reception and lunch honored Mr. Frank Batten of Virginia Beach, an alumnus. In the brief ceremony after lunch, the President announced that Mr. Batten had given $100million to be used for a School of Public Policy; it is the largest single private gift ever made to the University.

The President also read a letter from the Governor, thanking Mr. Batten and underlining the importance of education to the Commonwealth.

The Rector read a proposed resolution thanking Mr. Batten and establishing the School, which is to be known as the Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy. Mr. Wynne moved the resolution and the Rector asked the Secretary to take a roll call vote. All Members approved and the following resolution was passed:

WHEREAS, Frank Batten of Virginia Beach took a B.A. from the University in 1950, and after taking an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, returned home to work for Norfolk Newspapers, thus beginning a most successful business career; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batten built Norfolk Newspapers into Landmark Communications, Inc., a major media company of national significance; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batten has been a generous alumnus of the University and a first citizen of Hampton Roads and of the Commonwealth, having been the first Rector of Old Dominion University, Vice Chairman of the State Council for Higher Education in Virginia, President of the Norfolk Academy, a member of the Board of Visitors of the College of William and Mary, and a member of the board of the Darden School Foundation, among many other boards and commissions; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batten has been an extraordinarily effective and innovative leader in his profession and his community with a guiding interest in education and in the encouragement of civic responsibility; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batten has made a generous gift to the University for the establishment of a school of leadership and public policy, having previously made an important gift for the establishment of the Batten Institute at the Darden School;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks Frank Batten for his magnificent gift and approves the establishment of a school to be called the Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy. The proposal to establish the school will be brought to the Faculty Senate and to the appropriate committee of the Faculty, and then to the appropriate regulatory agencies.

At the Rector's invitation, Mr. Wynne spoke briefly and then introduced Mr. Batten.

Mr. Batten's remarks follow:

"I believe there is an urgent need to develop a new generation of entrepreneurial leaders - leaders who can bring about transformational changes in their communities, in their states and in the nation. The evidence is that interest in public service among students is high and is growing. And this new school will surely accelerate that interest.

What has been heartening to me through my meetings here has been the widespread support and enthusiasm for this new school from the talented deans and faculty members I have encountered. And I have been helped by the able and ever present support of Leonard Sandridge.

I would not have gotten this far without the encouragement and support I received from Dubby Wynne. He stimulated my interest in the school from the beginning, and he stuck with me until we consummated the deal. That didn't surprise me, because I have benefited from Dubby's tenacity for many years.

Never has there been a greater need for the University's most important products: enlightened and ethical leaders who leave the Grounds prepared for public life - in their communities, in their professions, in the state, and in the nation at large.

Support this school! It will make you proud."

The ceremonies ended at 1:30 p.m. and the Board returned to the Board Room for a meeting of the Finance Committee.
