<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1853) September 1, 1853

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
September 1, 1853\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body, which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions, and resolutions.

## Adjourned Session

The Board this day met pursuant to their adjournment of 30th June last.

Present: Joseph C. Cabell, Rector; Thomas J. Randolph; Henry A. Wise; William Lucas; Andrew McDonald; John Y Mason; & James L. Carr, Visitors.

Mr. Mason laid before the board a communication from James P. Holcombe relative to the surplus fees in the Law School.

The Rector then brought to the notice of the board the condition of the Terraces and after some discussion, the subject was laid on the table until tomorrow. The board then proceeded to read the testimonials of the various candidates for the Place of Proctor & Patron, and the election was postponed until tomorrow morning.

Col. Randolph laid before the board a communication from Col. Watson relative to the dormitories near his Hotel; this communication was laid on the table.

Col. Randolph laid before the board a communication from G. W. Turpin in relation to the Supply of Water to the University; laid on the table for the present.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from Dr. S. Maupin in relation to his Pavilion, requesting that he might be permitted to add to it at his own cost, to be refunded to him as soon as the finances of the University will admit, whereupon

Messrs. Randolph, McDonald, and Carr were appointed a committee to examine the Pavilion of Dr. Maupin and report tomorrow.

On the motion of Mr. McDonald, it was ordered that the Chairman of the Faculty be directed to assign a Dormitory to the Demonstrator of Anatomy.

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was resolved that the Executive Committee be directed to report to the next meeting of the Board as to the propriety of providing an office for the Secretary and Commissioner, wherein to preserve the papers of the Board of Visitors and transact the duties of their offices.

The Board then adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock A. M.

### Septr 2nd, 1853

The Board met this morning pursuant to their adjournment on last evening, present the same members as on yesterday.

The Board proceeded to the election of a Proctor & Patron, whereupon it was

Resolved that Mr. Rt. R. Prentiss of Norfolk County be and he is hereby appointed Proctor & Patron to the University.

A communication from Philip St. George Cocke, esqr. on the subject of the bonds of the University, issued under the act of February 17th, 1852, held by him and submitting a proposition that certain measures in regard to said bonds may be taken, was laid before the Board and considered. The Board having determined to renew the petition to the Legislature which was presented at the last session and strong hopes being entertained of its success, which will be a more satisfactory arrangement of the matter than any order which the Board of Visitors have power to make.

Resolved that the subject be postponed until the next meeting of the Board of Visitors when the petition will have been disposed of by the Legislature.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from the Chairman of the Faculty in relation to repairs of Terraces, a Supply of Water, and other subjects. Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Mason

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to cause estimates to be made without delay, of the expense of thorough repairs of the Terraces at the University, and of the expense of the best means of supplying water from Springs, for the use of the University and especially as reliable means, in case of fire, and communicate such plans and estimates to the Rector.

Resolved that the Rector be authorized and requested to memorialize the Legislature for authority to borrow temporarily a sum sufficient to meet the extraordinary expense thus to be incurred, not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, to be repaid principal and interest out of the current revenues of the University. (During the pendency of this motion Mr. Wise retired from the meeting)

On motion of Mr. Mason, the order made by the Board of Visitors on the 25th of June 1853 rejecting the application of James P. Holcombe, Esqr., adjunct Professor of Law, to have the Surplus fees in the School of Law for the Session ending on the 29th of the same month paid to him, be reconsidered and rescinded; and that the Communication of Mr. Holcombe on which the order of the 25th June last was founded, be referred to a Committee of three Visitors

Who are instructed to examine and report on the subject matter of the said communication and on the subject of adjunct Professors and assistant Instructors in the Several Schools of the University to the Board of Visitors at its next meeting. Whereupon Messrs. Mason, Randolph, & Carr were appointed a special committee under the foregoing resolutions.

Ordered that the Secretary of the Visitors be authorized (under the direction of the Chairman) to surrender to any unsuccessful applicant for any office his testimonials.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from Professor Gessner Harrison resigning the office of Chairman of the Faculty; at the request of the Board, Messrs. Randolph & Mason had an interview with Dr. Harrison & reported its result. Whereupon the Board of Visitors appreciating the arduous and valuable services of Dr. Harrison for years past, as Chairman of the Faculty and earnestly desirous to relieve him from these duties; yet under the circumstances by which they are now surrounded, they are earnestly desirous of continuing his services in the capacity of Chairman of the Faculty for another year, and assure him that if at the end of that time he desires to be relieved, his wishes will be gratified.

Resolved therefore that the Board declines to accept the resignation as tendered.

Col. T. J. Randolph laid before the Board a letter addressed to him by Col. Wm. S. Kemper, late Proctor & Patron of the University, asking that the fees paid by him for tuition of his sons, whilst at the University, be refunded to him.

Whereupon the Board ordered the following entry to be made:

The application of Col. Kemper is in effect for an additional allowance to him for his official conduct as Proctor and Patron of the University. The fees for his sons were paid, and the emoluments allowed him, in conformity with the laws and Regulations of the University. The Board can perceive in the circumstances of the case, nothing to justify them in returning these fees so paid and thereby increasing the compensations by that amount, to an officer for past services for which all the Compensation allowed by law has been paid. And therefore decline to comply with the request preferred by Col. Kemper.

The Rector laid before the board a communication from Dr. Harrison asking the Board that the appointment of Mr. Ed S. Joynes as Assistant Instructor in the School of Ancient Languages be confirmed.

It is ordered that the appointment of Mr. Joynes be confirmed.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from "The Monticello Bank." On motion of Mr. Carr, it was resolved that the further consideration of this communication be postponed until the next annual meeting of the Board.

The Rector laid before the Board a Communication from the Faculty with a report from Messrs. Minor & Courtney in relation to lighting the University with gas. Whereupon

It was ordered that the Chairman of the Faculty be authorized to accept the proposition made by Messrs. Stratton & Brother, to send on a competent person who will examine the grounds of the University, and selecting the most suitable site for the buildings, make a close & definite estimate of the cost of supplying the University with Gas, and allow to the person while so employed two dollars a day, and his expense of travel in coming from Philadelphia to the University & in returning.

Col. Randolph then called the attention of the Board to a communication from Col. J. R. Watson in relation to the Dormitories near his Hotel. Whereupon

It was ordered that the Consideration thereof be postponed until the next meeting of the Board.

The Board then proceeded to the consideration of communication which was received on yesterday from Dr. Maupin in relation to his Pavilion & verbal report of the Committee.

On the motion of Col. Randolph, it was resolved that the Proctor, under the direction of the Executive Committee, be directed to contract for the construction of an addition to the Pavilion No. 8, now assigned to Dr. Maupin, on a Plan to be approved of by the Executive Committee, provided Dr. Maupin will advance the cost thereof to the contractor or to be refunded to him, under the order of the Board of Visitors.

Ordered that on the completion of the New Building attached to the Rotunda, the services of the Superintendent of that building be dispensed with and his compensation discontinued and that it shall be the duty of the Building Committee to fix the time when the work shall be deemed and considered as completed within the meaning of the Resolution, and communicate the same to the superintendent & the Proctor and Patron of the University.

Ordered that instead of the monthly reports required of the Proctor of the University by the 5th paragraph of the 2nd Section of the 1st Chapter of the Regulations of the University, it shall be his duty to make weekly reports to the Chairman of the Faculty.

The recommendation of the Faculty that an additional Ice Pond be constructed is approved, and it is ordered that the Proctor cause an additional Ice Pond to be made on the University grounds at such point as may be selected by him under the direction of the Executive Committee for the use of the public Ice houses.

Ordered that the Board adjourn sine die.
