<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1856)

## June 24, 1856

### Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 24, 1856

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

**Public minutes**

18 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions, and resolutions.

## STATED ANNUAL MEETING

At a special meeting of the Board of Visitors held at the University on the 26th & 27th days of May last, it was resolved that the Board should adjourn to meet on the 24th of June instead of the 25th. In accordance with this resolution Messrs Joynes, Baldwin and Robertson appeared, but not constituting a quorum they adjourned over until tomorrow morning at 12 Oclock.

### Wednesday June 25th 1856

The Board met pursuant to adjournment, present the same gentlemen as on yesterday with the addition of Mr Tucker. There still being no quorum the Board again adjourned until tomorrow morning.

### Thursday June 26th 1856

The Board met pursuant to adjournment present the same gentlemen as on yesterday with the addition of Messrs Carr & Garnett.

The Rector being detained from his place by severe indisposition; on motion of Col Baldwin, James L. Carr was unanimously elected Rector Pro Tem.

The Rectors last annual Report to the Legislature was then read and approved.

The Proctors report was read and laid upon the table. The same disposition was made of the Librarians and Chairmans Reports.

A Communication from the Professors in the School of Medicine, on the subject of employing an Analytic Chemist as an Assistant in the School of Chemistry was read and laid upon the table.

A communication from Prof Bledsoe relating to the School of Mathematics, was then read and referred to a special committee, consisting of Messrs Garnett & Tucker.

A Communication from The Professors in the School of Law, was read, and referred to a special Committee consisting of Messrs Joynes & Baldwin.

The Rector then appointed the following regular Committees.

* Committee of Finance, Messrs Garnett & Tucker
* Committee of Inspection Messrs Joynes & Baldwin
* Committee on Library Messrs Joynes & Baldwin

At the request of Messrs Robertson and Baldwin it is ordered to be entered of record, that they were not present and did not participate in the action taken by the Board on the 27th day of May last in relation to the compensation to be given to the Professor in the school of the Latin language & Literature, and if they had been present they would not have concurred in that action.

The Board then adjourned until tomorrow morning.

### Friday Morning June 27th

The Board met pursuant to adjournment present the same gentlemen as on yesterday with the exception of Mr Robertson who was detained from his place by indisposition.

The Board proceeded to the "Public Hall" and attended the closing exercises of the session, after the conclusion of these, the Board again repaired to the "library" when the following proceedings were had.

A communication was received from the Professors of the School of Law, and thereupon on motion of Col Baldwin, it was

1. Resolved That the School of Law be divided into two Departments, in one of which shall be taught the Feudal, Common & Statute Law- and in the other Equity and the laws civil, mercatorial, and maritime, the law of Evidence and of Nature & Nations, and also the principles of Government and Constitutional Law.

2. That the fees in the School of Law be, for the senior class, in either Department (with the privilege of attending all the classes of both Departments) $80- for the Junior class of either department (with the privilege of attending the Junior class in the other) $60; and for the class of Government & International & Constitutional Law alone, omitting the other Junior Studies $25-

3. That the fees in the school be shared equally by the two professors, subject to such limitations and conditions as the other Schools of the University-

On motion of Mr Tucker it was

Resolved That the Executive Committee be instructed to procure Charles Ellet Jr. or some other competent engineer to examine into the best means of providing an ample supply of water for the University, and to report a plan or plans for the same, with an estimate of cost.

The Committee to whom was referred the communication of Prof A. T. Bledsoe submitted the following

**Report.**

"The Committee to whom was referred the communication of Prof A. T. Bledsoe report the following enactment, and recommend its passage by the Board of Visitors.

1. In the School of Mathematics, there shall be, as at present, four classes-

To the Junior class shall be transferred the entire subjects of Algebra, Synthetic Geometry, and Trigonometry plane and spherical. The subject of Arithmetic, shall be omitted from the same, an acquaintance with its rules and process being a pre-requisite to entrance into this school.

The Subject of Analytical Geometry shall be transferred from the Senior to the Intermediate Class.

In the Senior Class shall be taught the Calculus, Differential & Integral, and the History and Philosophy of Mathematics, embracing the Theory of Numbers.

2. Relying upon the Professor in the School of Mathematics for the thorough Instruction of all the classes in his School, the board of Visitors deems it unnecessary to interfere in any manner with his discretion as to the best use to be made of his assistant in the accomplishment of that result.

The Committee deem no further action necessary upon the Communication of Prof Bledsoe.

All which is respectfully submitted:

June 27th 1856

M.R.H. Garnett

J.R. Tucker

The foregoing report and enactment were adopted by the Board.

A communication from the Hotel Keepers in relation to Board was read and on motion was indefinitely postponed!

On motion of Mr Joynes the following statement and resolution were adopted.

The Faculty having requested the Board to express an opinion as to the course to be pursued in the appointment of State Students-

Resolved That in the opinion of the Board, a preference (other things being equal) should be given to applicants from the respective districts, desiring to attend the academical schools, but that applicants desiring to attend the professional schools, should not be excluded altogether!

On motion of Mr Garnett it was

Resolved that the sum of $34.75 be appropriated to pay for the purchase of the mural ancient maps mentioned in the letter of Dr Harrison on that subject dated

On motion of Mr Garnett it was

Resolved That the Proctor be instructed, strictly to comply with the provisions of clauses 5 and 8 of Section 2 of Chapter 1 of the Enactments: He shall make regular weekly reports thereon to the Faculty. These reports with the action of the Faculty, thereon, shall be laid by the Chairman before the Board of Visitors, and it shall be the duty of the Chairman of the Faculty especially to call the attentions of the Board to any failure of the Proctor to comply with these requisitions.

Resolved That the Chairman & Faculty be specially recommended to cause the dormitories, alleys, and privies, \&c to be kept by the proper persons with strict cleanliness, and to exert themselves to secure such fidelity on the part of the Proctor and Hotel Keepers; that an ample supply of good and wholesome fare be served up in each Hotel, to the students in a cleanly and gentlemanly style, and that the Chairman report all delinquencies and complaints in this regard to the Board of Visitors.

On motion of Mr Tucker it was

Resolved That the secretary of the Board be directed to collate, record, and index, all general enactments and regulations, in a separate Book, passed, since the publication of the enactments in 1847-

On motion of Mr Baldwin it was

Resolved that a fee of $2.50 be paid for each Diploma and certificate of proficiency taken by students at the University, instead of the fee required.

On motion of Mr. Baldwin Prof Maupin was elected Chairman of the Faculty for the next year.

On motion of Mr Garnett it was-

Resolved That the Faculty be requested at their earliest convenience to procure plans & estimates for heating the public buildings by steam or otherwise with suitable ventilation and report the same to the Executive Committee, who are hereby authorized to contract for the same on any plan they think best, at a cost not exceeding $1000- And that the Faculty also report the present cost of heating the public buildings.

On motion of Mr Joynes it was

Resolved That the original papers of Richard Henry Lee decd in the possession of the University be placed in the hands of Professor Holcombe, who is hereby requested to examine the same and cause any of them to be copied which may be in such a condition as to require it, and of sufficient interest or importance to justify it, and to make such suggestions as may seem proper in relation to their future preservation.

The Board then adjourned until tomorrow morning at nine oclock.

### Saturday June 28th 1856

The Board met pursuant to adjournment; present the same gentlemen as on yesterday.

On motion of Mr Baldwin it was

Resolved that in the School of Anatomy \&c Students who may desire to attend the course of Botany & Vegetable Physiology may do so without being required to attend any other part of the course. The fee for the class of Botany and Vegetable Physiology shall be $15 per session and the Faculty may at their discretion confer certificates of Proficiency in this class.

On motion of Mr Carr it was

Resolved that the Proctor cause to be erected, under the supervision of the Executive Committee, a back porch to Pavilion No 10 at a cost not exceeding $150.

A communication having been received from Hotel Keeper Mr Addison Maupin, requesting permission to reside with his family out of the University.

Resolved that in consideration of Mr Maupins agreeing to provide accommodations for the Visitors when in attendance upon their duties at the University, his request be granted- But it is distinctly understood, that this permission does not exonerate Mr Maupin from the faithful discharge of all his duties & obligations as a Hotel Keeper of the University-

Resolved that the Proctor be directed to collect all the furniture provided heretofore for the members of the Board of Visitors, and purchase such additional furniture as may be necessary for their accommodation at future meetings.

Resolved that the resignation of Mr Becker as assistant in the School of Modern Languages be accepted to take effect on the 1st day of October next, but with the understanding that his salary shall cease on the 1st day of July next.

On motion of Mr Baldwin it was.

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized and requested to select among students who have graduated in the schools of Latin & Greek and of Mathematics persons most distinguished for their attainments in those studies and to license them as Instructors.

These instructors shall be privileged to form classes among the students in the Schools in which they are licensed and to give instruction in such classes, in aid of, and in conformity to, the public teachings of the professor. The employment and selection of these Instructors shall be at the option of the Student, and no instructor shall be permitted to charge more than $10 per session for each class. The number of instructors shall be regulated by the Faculty but shall not be so restricted as to prevent free competition.

The Faculty and especially the Professors of Greek and Latin are requested to report specially at the next annual meeting their opinions as to the working of this plan and as to the expediency of extending it to other Schools of the University.

On motion of Mr Garnett the following letter was ordered to be spread upon the minutes and a copy sent to Mr N. F. Cabell of Nelson

I am instructed by the Board of Visitors of the University to say they have been gratified to learn, that you intend to publish the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and the late Rector Mr Joseph C. Cabell in relation to the University of Virginia, and that they anticipate much pleasure and advantage from its perusal.

To

N.F. Cabell, Esqr

### The Committee of Inspection submitted the following Report

To the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia

The Committee of Inspection beg leave to report that having been appointed late yesterday afternoon, and having been engaged in other duties, during the greater part of today, they have been unable for want of time, to make such an examination of the buildings and grounds of the University as is desirable. They have made such a general examination of them however, accompanied by the Proctor, as the time available for the purpose allowed.

Most of the Buildings appear to be in good condition-The cornices of the ranges, however, appear to be in bad order, and to require considerable repairs, though their present condition and the extent of the repairs necessary cannot be ascertained without a better examination than the committee had the time or were competent to make. Considerable portions of the cornice seem to be rotten and to require to be entirely replaced. In other places there are leaks which are occasioning injury to the walls plastering \&c the committee recommend that these buildings be thoroughly overhauled, by a competent work-men, and that the repairs found necessary be immediately made. The flooring on each side of the Portico of the Rotunda looks badly and the Committee recommend that some plan be adopted to remedy the defect.

The Committee are informed by the Proctor that the carpenters work on the terraces has been completed, though part of the painting remains to be done. The committee are informed that the terraces leak badly so as to render the arcades uncomfortable from that cause, in rainy weather. The original plan for the improvement of the terraces, contemplated that they should be covered with painted canvas with the view of rendering them water tight. It was supposed that a covering of heart pine well seasoned, and tongued and grooved, and thoroughly painted, would accomplish the desired object, and the work has been accordingly executed upon that plan. The Committee are unable to say whether the failure of the improvement is attributable to a defect in the plan, or in the execution, but they recommend that enquiry should be made into this matter by the Executive Committee, before the balance due to the contractor is paid. It would probably be ell also to inquire whether the contract of Mr Shaw the Superintendent of the work, has been properly fulfilled. The Committee recommend that the Executive Committee, adopt such measures as may be necessary to render the terraces water tight, in conformity with the original purpose of the Board.

Some repairs are also necessary to the dormitories, particularly to the venetians. The attention of the Committee has been directed to the fact that the University farm is kept up at a large annual expense over and above all the proceeds of the farm, he Committee are induced to believe that an arrangement may be made by which the expense may be materially diminished if not entirely avoided. They recommend that the Executive Committee be instructed to enquire and report to the next meeting, whether such an arrangement can be effected.

Wm T. Joynes Committee

J.B. Baldwin Committee

### The Committee on Finance submitted the following report

"The Committee on Finance ask leave to report that they have examined the Proctors & bursars accounts, and find the balances reported agree. And in reference to other subjects connected with the reports of those officers, they respectfully recommend the adoption of several resolutions, herewith submitted.

M.R.H. Garnett

J.R. Tucker.

The following resolutions submitted by the Committee of Finance were adopted.

1. Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to employ a competent landscape Gardener to examine the grounds of the University, and prepare detailed plans for their improvement, so as to enhance the beauty of the place, and provide an ample extent of groves and lawns for the recreation and health of its inhabitants.

2. Resolved that in such plans, reference shall be had to the removal of all out-buildings, offices \&c to suitable situations, and also to the future erection of houses for Professors, and cottages or houses for students, so that when such structures become necessary, they may be in harmony with the grounds, and contribute to ornament them.

3. Resolved that the Executive Committee be also instructed to procure a competent Architect to carefully examine the buildings of the University, and report such alterations improvements and repairs as may seem necessary.

4. Resolved that a sum not exceeding $6000, out of the appropriation made by the general assembly on the 28th of February 1854, be expended under the direction of the Executive Committee in painting the exterior wood work of the buildings and the interior of the dormitories, in the repair of the cornices, and in such other repairs as they may deem necessary.

5. Resolved that the residue of the said appropriation of Feby 28, 1854 be drawn from the state, and placed in the Treasury of the University. And that the Bursar be instructed to invest the same, and all surplus funds in his hands, in Va Treasury notes, at not more than par, taking care to collect such notes at maturity and reinvest the proceeds.

6. Resolved that the Professors in the Schools of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, Medicine, Anatomy & Botany, and of Surgery & Comparative Anatomy, be requested to report to the Board what additional apparatus plates \&c are necessary for illustration or instruction in their branches, and the probable cost of the same.

7. Resolved that the Proctor be instructed to pay no further money on account of the terraces, either to the Superintendent or Contractor, unless by the order of the Executive Committee.

8. Resolved that Professors Cabell and Davis be authorized to expend a sum not exceeding $500 in the employment of Mr Scharf (or such other person as they may prefer) in making drawings for their own or other departments of the University.

9. Resolved That so much of the Proctors report as relates to the house erected by Mr Compton be referred to the Executive Committee, with instructions to do what they may consider right in the premises.

The report of the Librarian having been received was referred to Messrs Joynes & Baldwin, who thereupon reported the following resolutions.

Resolved that in addition to the annual appropriation of $500 to the Library there be hereafter annually appropriated the sum of $90 the interest upon the Madison Legacy.

Resolved That there now be appropriated to the Library the sum of $2427.87, the amount shown by the report of the Librarian to be due on account of other applications of funds properly belonging to the Library.

Resolved that this appropriation be applied to the purchase of such books of substantial and standard merit, as the several Professors may deem necessary to supply them with material for instruction in their several Schools according to the present and progressive advancement of the subjects taught therein.

Resolved that the fee for matriculation and the use of the Library & public rooms shall hereafter be $20 (instead of $15) and one fourth part thereof shall be annually appropriated to the increase of the Library.

On motion of Mr Garnett, it was

Resolved that the annual appropriation for the Library be expended under the direction of the Faculty, who are recommended to have reference chiefly to providing such books as are necessary to facilitate their own investigations and studies in their several departments.

A communication having been received from the secretary of the Faculty in relation to an increase of salary

Resolved that action thereon be postponed for a fuller meeting of the Board, at which time such disposition will be made of it as may be just to him.

Mr Garnett offered the following resolution with the understanding that it should lie upon the table until the next meeting.

"Resolved that the offices of Librarian and clerk of the Faculty be separated. The clerk of the Faculty shall hereafter receive $500 per annum, and the Librarian shall also receive $500 per annum. The Librarian shall be appointed annually by the Board of Visitors, preference being given in making such appointment to Graduates of the University who are desirous to devote themselves to Literary studies. The Library shall be kept open during lecture hours, provided however that some portion of the night may be substituted for a part of the day at the discretion of the Faculty,

The Librarian shall prepare a full and accurate catalogue of the Library on the plan recommended by the Smithsonian Institute."

Resolved that the Faculty be instructed to procure some competent Bibliographer to prepare under their direction a Catalogue of such books as are requisite, to make the Library adequate to the wants of the University- In preparing such Catalogue special reference, shall be had to making each department, connected with the branches of learning here taught, as complete as possible. Purchases for the Library shall be chiefly made from such Catalogue, until it is filled up.

On motion of Mr Joynes it was

Resolved that the Rector communicate with the Agricultural Society of Virginia upon the subject of the proposition heretofore made by the Society to the Board for the establishment of a school of Agriculture in the University, and that he inform them that the Board having been invested by the Legislature with the necessary legal authority for that purpose, are prepared now to co-operate with the society, in the establishment of such a School, upon a scale commensurate with the views of the society and the wants of the Country.

Resolved that the Board deeming it expedient to return to the custom which originally prevailed in the University of electing Professors in the first instance for a single year, will conform to that rule in making appointments to the Chairs now vacant.

On motion of Mr Baldwin it was

Resolved that the Board will meet again on the 8th day of Sept for the purpose of electing a Professor of Greek & Hebrew, and to consider the question of the Professrs salaries.

Resolved that applications for the Chair of History and General Literature will be received until the 1st day of January 1857.

Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty make due advertisement for applications for both of said chairs.

Resolved that the Faculty procure a new plate for Diplomas upon a design to be approved by the Executive Committee.

The Board then adjourned until the 8th day of September 1856.

I am instructed by the Board of Visitors of the University to say they have been gratified to learn, that you intend to publish the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and the late Rector Mr Joseph C. Cabell in relation to the University of Virginia, and that they anticipate much pleasure and advantage from its perusal.

I am instructed by the Board of Visitors of the University to say they have been gratified to learn, that you intend to publish the correspondence between Mr. Jefferson and the late Rector Mr Joseph C. Cabell in relation to the University of Virginia, and that they anticipate much pleasure and advantage from its perusal.
