<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1856) March 26, 1856

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 26, 1856

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

11 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## Special Session

In pursuance of a call, by three members of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, for a special meeting of the Board on Monday the 26th of May 1856, the following members of the Board appeared and took their seats Messrs Andrew Stevenson, John R. Edmunds, Muscoe R. H. Garnett and John R. Tucker, there being no quorum present the Board adjourned until this evening at five oclock.

## Evening Session

The Board met pursuant to adjournment present the same gentlemen as at the morning session with the addition of Messrs John B. Baldwin, William J. Robertson and James Neeson.

On motion of Mr Edmunds, Andrew Stevenson Esqr was unanimously elected Rector of the University, who having assumed the chair returned his acknowledgements.

A communication from the Chairman of the Faculty covering several resolutions passed by the faculty was read and on motion laid on the table. These resolutions were as follows.

1\. A resolution in regard to salary of Assistant Instructor Wm. Dinwiddie.

2\. A resolution in relation to the admittance of state students to the Professional Schools.

3\. A resolution asking that the "public day" be held on Friday the 27th of June.

4\. A resolution communicating to the Board the answer of the Faculty of the University to a communication from a Committee of the Faculty of William and Mary College

5\. A memorial in regard to the increase of Professors salaries.

The foregoing resolutions were read and laid upon the table.

The Rector laid before the board the following communications which on motion were read and laid upon the table viz

* A communication from Dr Cabell & Prof Smith in relation to instruction in Botany.
* A communication from Prof Schele De Vere.
* A communication from the Proctor.
* A communication from the Secretary of the Faculty in regard to an increase of salary.
* A communication from the Columbian Society.
* A communication from Prof Holcomoe.
* A communication from Gov ise.
* A communication from assistant instructors.
* A communication from gas company of Charlottesville.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from the "Sons of Temperance" tendering the use of their hall to the Board, during their present session.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was.

Resolved that the thanks of the Board be returned to "The Sons of Temperance" for the tender of their hall, but in view of the greater convenience of meeting in the faculty room, the Board respectfully decline the offer.

On motion of Col Baldwin,

Resolved That the Board approve of the proposition made by the Faculty to hold the "Public Day" on Friday June the 27, for the present year.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was,

Resolved That the Lectureship of Anatomy, Materia Medica and Therapeutics be constituted a full Professorship of the same subjects, and that in this school, shall also be taught Botany and Vegetable Physiology, not only in reference to Materica Medica, but especially as a distinct science for the unprofessional student.

On motion of Col Baldwin J. S. Davis was unanimously elected Professor of The School of Anatomy, Materia Medica Therapeutics, Botany and Vegetable Physiology.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was,

Resolved That in the School of Ancient Languages there shall be two Professorships.

A Professorship of the Latin Language, and a Professorship of the Greek and Hebrew Languages, and that the Assistant Instructors shall hereafter be dispensed with.

On motion of Col Baldwin it was,

1\. Resolved That the Faculty be requested to report to this Board at its annual meeting in June next, a plan for an increase of the Library of the University, with a list of books, and an estimate of cost, And that the list be arranged in the order of importance, so as to enable the Board to appropriate for the purpose as they may find expedient.

2\. Resolved That the Proctor report to this board at its annual meeting in June next a Statement showing

1\. The debits of the University of every kind and to whom due.
2\. The property of the University of every description.
3\. The value and condition of the Dawson farm.

Resolved That he also report to the Board, the condition and value of the Dawson farm - with the opinion of counsel upon the power of the Board to sell the same.

On motion of Mr Garnett, it was

Resolved That another Professorship viz that of History and General Literature, shall be established at the University of Virginia- In the school of History shall be taught the true objects and best methods of the study of History; the general course of human affairs with particular developments and illustrations of those epochs and events which have had most influence upon man; the effects of systems of religion and jurisprudence, upon the moral and physical condition of the human race, the principles of historical criticism, the most authentic sources and best authorities to which the student should be referred, in pursuit of the various branches of History Ethnography and the principles of Chronology. and the influences of diversities in race and climate upon the condition of man, and whatever pertains to the History of the general progress of human civilization.

2\. In the School of General Literature shall be taught the history of the rise and progress of General Literature with particular developments and illustrations of those epochs and authors whose influence upon that progress has been most marked, the best methods and authors for the study of the Literature of different Languages with a development of the particular genius and character of each, But it shall be the especial object of this school to teach the rise and progress of English Literature, to illustrate those stages in its growth which are most worthy of remark, and to trace the effect of particular authors and great masters, upon the growth of the English Language and Literature. In the school of General Literature the student shall be regularly exercised in English Composition, and the Professor may invite any member of his class, to deliver lectures or read essays upon such branches of literature, on such authors, as he may be likely to illustrate with credit to himself and the Institution. Provided however that nothing contained in this enactment, shall be so construed as to take from the chair of Moral Philosophy, And Ancient and Modern Languages any of the subjects of instruction now confided to them.

On motion of Mr Baldwin it was

Resolved That the sum of $300 per annum be allowed to each Professor for whom no pavilion can be provided within the University, such allowance to be in lieu of rent.

Resolved That Prof James P. Holcombe be allowed the sum of $300 in lieu of rent for the current year.

On motion of Mr Tucker it was

Resolved That a Committee of three be appointed to report to the regular meeting of the Board in June next upon the expediency and feasibility of establishing a new Professorship embracing Physical Geography, Geology, Mineralogy and general subject of Applied Science- to Art navigation and agriculture.

The Rector appointed the following Committee under the foregoing resolution viz Messrs Edmunds Tucker & Robertson.

The Board then adjourned until tomorrow morning, at nine Oclock.

The Board met pursuant to adjournment present the same gentlemen as on yesterday with the exception of Messrs Robertson and Baldwin.

Resolutions on various subjects were submitted for the consideration of the Board, and informally passed but owing to the absence of Messrs Baldwin & Robertson these resolutions were not acted upon definitively.

About 12 oclock Mr. William T. Joynes Esqr appeared and took his seat at the Board.

About 5 oclock P.M. the Rector retired, whereupon Mr Edmunds was called to the chair pro tem.

Messrs Robertson and Baldwin soon after appeared and took their seats at the Board.

When the resolutions informally passed upon during the morning session, were again called up for definitive action Whereupon it was

Resolved That the resignation of Assistant Instructor Edward S. Joynes, which was this morning tendered to the Board, be accepted, and permission is granted him to leave the University on or about the 15th of June next.

The Board having considered the resolution of the Faculty passed July 2nd 1855 in relation to the increase of the salary of Assistant Instructor Wm Dinwiddie as well as the communication from the Assistant Instructors in regard to an increase of salary

It was on motion unanimously

Resolved that the Board deem it inexpedient to alter in any respect the resolution passed Thursday June 28th 1855 in relation to the compensation of Assistant Instructors.

On motion of Mr Garnett it was

Resolved That in the Anglo-Saxon class of the School of Modern Languages shall be taught the principles and facts of the Philology of the English Language and the laws which have regulated the growth of the Etymology and Grammar of the Language upon the basis of the Anglo-Saxon.

The communication from the Faculty of William and Mary College being under consideration, it was

Resolved that the Board of Visitors consider it unnecessary to take any action in reference to the subject and that the resolution be communicated to the Faculty.

Resolved That the Communication of Wm Wertenbaker in respect to an increase of his salary as Secretary of the Faculty, be referred to the Executive Committee for enquiry and report upon the Expediency of such increase to the next regular meeting of the Board.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was

Resolved That the Secretary inform the Columbian Society that the Board of Visitors have had under consideration their application to the Board to be furnished with a Hall, in which to hold their meetings, and have referred the subject to the Executive Committee.

Resolved That the Secretary inform Wm T. Early and others members of the gas light company that their communication on the subject of introducing gas into the University of Va has been referred to the Executive Committee for a report to the next meeting of the Board of Visitors.

On motion of Mr Tucker it was

Resolved That Wm J. Robertson John R. Edmunds and John B. Baldwin constitute the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors.

Mr Stevenson submitted the following statement & resolution to the board which were unanimously adopted.

Since the last meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia its late Rector Joseph C. Cabell departed this life at his residence in the County of Nelson in the 80th year of his age.

Few names stand higher on the list of the eminent founders of this Institution than that of this distinguished man.

As a citizen of Virginia and one of the members of its Legislature for many years; as a Visitor of the University, from the period of its establishment, to that of his death, and for the last ten years, the Rector; the larger portion of his life may truly be said to have been devoted to the advancement of the highest honors, and best interests, of this noble Institution.

Resolved Therefore that the members of the Board of Visitors now assembled, cannot satisfy their feelings, without bearing testimony to the character and services of Mr Cabell to the University of Virginia and especially their deep sense of the loss which it has sustained in the lamented death of one of its early Patrons, and most constant, zealous, and devoted friends!

Resolved That the Rector be requested to communicate to Mrs Cabell the foregoing resolutions.

Ordered by the Board that the foregoing preamble and resolution be published.

On motion of Mr Tucker it was

Resolved That in all respects except where otherwise specially provided, the several professors in the School of Ancient Languages, the Professor in the School of History & Gen Literature & of Mat Medica - Therapeutics, Anatomy and Botany shall be placed upon the same basis as to compensation and fees, as the present Professors.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was,

Resolved If the Student attends one Professorship in the School of Ancient Languages, the Charge shall be the same as at present, and if the Student attends both Professorships the charge shall be fifteen dollars for each.

Resolved That the Professor of Latin shall receive in addition to the regular salary of one thousand dollars, all the fees from the Students attending his classes.

Resolved Unanimously That the Professorship of Latin be and is hereby assigned to Gessner Harrison M.D. now a Professor of Ancient Languages in the University of Virginia.

On motion of Col Baldwin it was,

Resolved That the Patron report to this Board at its annual meeting in June next a statement showing the amount received for tuition fees in the University for the last five sessions, including the present, distinguishing the amount received in each year from each of the Several Schools and classes. And that he also report the schools and classes attended by the State Students in each of the five sessions and the number in each school and class.

On motion of Mr Tucker it was,

Resolved That the Chairman of the Faculty be instructed to advertize, that the Board of Visitors will receive applications at its next meeting on the 24th of June 1856 for the position of Professor in the School of the Creek and Hebrew Languages and of Professor in the School of History and General Literature the advertisement to be inserted in such papers in and out of the state as he may think best- And that a copy of the Resolution establishing the latter School shall be inserted with the advertizement.

Resolved That the Professors in the Medical and Chemical Schools be requested to communicate to the Board at their next regular meeting, their views respecting the appointment of an Analytical Chemist, the probable compensation necessary therefor, the expense attending it, and the mode in which his school shall be constituted and conducted.

On motion of Mr Robertson it was,

Resolved That the Bursar be directed to pay to Professor Maupin the principal and interest due for money advanced by him for building an addition to his pavilion.

On motion of Col Baldwin

Resolved That the Salary of Dr Smith the Janitor be raised to two hundred dollars per annum to take effect from the first day of June 1856.

The Board then adjourned until Tuesday June 24th, 1856.
