<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1891)

## October 30, 1891

### Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 30, 1891

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

#### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Rector & Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on this day in pursuance of a call by the Rector.

Present, the Rector, Dr Randolph, and Visitors, Gordon, Kean, McCabe, McCormick, Parrish & Watts.

The Board was called to order by the Rector who stated that the principal object of the call was to consider the question of the improvement of the water supply to the University and the matter of the Fayerweather bequest.

The following were among the communications laid before the Board:

1. Communications from the Executors of D. B. Fayerweather decd to the Rector, in reference to paying over a portion of the legacy about this time.

2. Report of the Committee touching a new main from the Reservoir to the University.

3. The Report of the Faculty.

4. Letter from Profr Perkinson asking to be allowed an assistant. Refd to Comee on Conduct of Schools.

5. From Dr W. C. Dabney asking for enlargement of his Pavilion. Referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools.

6. From W. H. Cabell asking for modification in the degree requirements in his behalf. Referred to the Committee on Conduct of Schools.

7. From R. E. L. Farmer, a like request in his behalf.

8. From W. A. Lambeth asking for free tuition.

9. From G. M. Peek asking for dormitory & free tuition.

10. Recommendation of the University Board of Health.

11. From W. H. Wenger asking transfer from Med. to Pharmacy. Refd to Comee on Conduct of Schools.

12. Petition of a large number of students for a Gymnasium etc. Refd to Commee on Conduct of Schools.

13. Petition of E. W. Roby for a reduction of fees. Refd to Commee on Conduct of Schools.

14. Remonstrance of M. A.s of the University against the change in the M. A. degree etc as adopted by the Board.

15. Communication from Profr Tuttle in reference to salary of his assistant Profr Sigerfoos.

The Committee on the water supply laid before the Board a copy of an ordinance of the City Council of the City of Charlottesville for the consideration of the Board & which reads as follows:

Be it ordained by the City Council of Charlottesville that the City by its Mayor enter into a contract with the Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to the following effect, to wit: That in consideration of the surrender to the City of Charlottesville by the said Rector & Board of Visitors of the University of Va, of its entire interest in the present main from the Reservoir to, and into the City of Charlottesville, and in consideration of ($2,200.) Twenty two hundred dollars to be paid to the University of Virginia by the City of Charlottesville out of the levy for 1892, the said Rector & Board of Visitors shall have the right to connect at its own expense its water supply system from the point where its system now connects with the present 10 inch main by a 6 inch main to and into the Reservoir, and the said 6 inch main to be reduced to a (4) four inch main for the University of Virginia water supply: Provided such connection can be made through the Dam tunnel without injury to said Dam or gate-house.

The control and supervision of the Reservoir to remain in the City control as it now exists under the original contract between the University of Virginia and the City of Charlottesville dated the 20th day of January 1885.

This agreement is in nowise to alter or change the proper accounting between said city and University of Virginia for any matter of liability existing prior to this date. The said 6 inch main not to be tapped.

The fire plugs now connecting on the 10 inch main within the University of Virginia are to remain and to be used only by the University for extinguishing fires.

After consideration of the subject Mr Parrish offered the following resolutions which were approved and adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved that the Rector on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be directed to enter into a contract with the city of Charlottesville by which the University shall release and convey to said city its entire interest in the present ten inch water main leading from the reservoir to said city, in consideration of the sum of Twenty two hundred Dollars, with a provision in said contract allowing the University to connect its present pipes with the reservoir by a six inch main leading into and through the University grounds, provided that no distributing pipe shall exceed four inches in diameter, and provided further that nothing in said contract shall be construed as to alter the ration of ownership of the reservoir and water supply on the part of the University and the City as it now exists, and provided further that the fire plugs on said ten inch main shall remain as they now stand for use in cases of fire only.

II. That the contract provide that the six inch main be connected with the reservoir in such manner as not to do permanent injury to the Dam or Gate House, and that the supervision and control of the Reservoir remain as it now exists.

III. That no water shall be used outside of the University property from said six inch main, and that all unsettled liabilities growing out of the water supply plant shall be settled under the existing contract, which shall be preserved except as specially changed by the proposed contract.

The following resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote:

Resolved, that the sum of $14000.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary be appropriated for the purpose of laying an independent water main from the present reservoir to the University, but that the laying of said main and the expenditure of said appropriation be under the supervision of the Executive Committee & the Proctor.

After consideration of the proposition of the Executors of D. B. Faerweather decd to pay 25% of the legacy to the University, forthwith, after deducting taxes & interest, the following resolution was adopted:

Whereas it is proposed by the Executors of the late D. B. Faerweather to pay 25 per cent of the legacy left the University provided the state tax of $1000. is deducted therefrom and the interest on said 25 per cent is deducted from the time of payment to the end of the year, to wit, the 28th of Feb. 1892 and whereas the Board is disinclined to accept said proposal for the reason that at present it has no use for the money and for the further reason that it does not understand why it should be required to pay interest on money that is shown to be in hand and therefore ready for distribution, but if it is to the interest of the University to accept said proposal and submit to the deduction of interest and tax aforesaid, it feels bound to do so. Therefore it is

Resolved, that the Rector after advising with the New York counsel, Mr R. C. Taylor, be directed to settle said legacy on such terms as he may think to the best interest of the University.

The communication from certain M. A.s of remonstrance against change in the M. A. degree, on motion was referred to the Conduct of Schools for report.

The following resolutions were adopted:

Resolved, that the Proctor be requested to make a special annual report to the Finance Committee of the securities held by the University, together with the market value of said securities, making such recommendations as to the changing of the same as he may deem proper.

Resolved,

I. That the Board is inclined to give a favorable consideration to the recommendation of the Faculty and the Petition of the students in respect to providing adequate facilities for physical culture but at this time deems it best to wait until the funds shall be in hand before making any appropriation.

II. That the Proctor be instructed to obtain at a cost to be authorized by the Executive Committee, proper plans and specifications for a suitable Gymnasium with its equipment, and baths for the use of the students, the whole not to exceed in cost the sum of $15000.

Resolved, that the Rector take charge of and have presented to the General Assembly a bill to authorize the commutation into money of the legacy to the University under the will of A. W. Austin & take such steps as may be necessary to procure the passage of said bill.

Whereas sundry persons have, by will and otherwise, donated large sums of money to the University, and whereas it is the unanimous sense of the Board that all such gifts should be kept intact as to the principal, in order to keep each doner's name connected with his original gift, it is

Resolved, that in all cases in which the Board shall find it necessary to use any part of the principal of any such gift, the money so used shall be treated as a loan from the particular fund from which it is derived, and that a sinking fund be created from the interest accruing from such original fund, which sinking fund shall be used to refund the money so borrowed as aforesaid.

Resolved, that the salary of Mr Sigerfoos, assistant to Profr Tuttle, be fixed at Eight hundred dollars for the present session, and that the sum heretofore appropriated for the equipment of Profr Tuttle's Department be reduced to seven hundred dollars.

Resolved, that the application of Dr Dabney for an addition to his Pavilion be referred to the Proctor, with instructions to procure plans and specifications for such addition as may be desired, together with an estimate of the cost of same, and to report to the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved, that the gift of the "old bell" to the University by Professors Tuttle, Stone & Towles be accepted with the thanks of the Rector and Visitors for the same, and that the Proctor be directed to place the bell in an appropriate place in the Brooks Museum.

Resolved, that the resolution adopted at the last meeting changing the time of the annual meeting of the Board be rescinded, and that the Board hereafter hold their annual meetings at the time fixed by the law prior to the passage of the said resolution.

Resolved, that the application of Profr Tuttle to make his a compulsory two years course, the consideration of which was postponed at the last annual meeting be further postponed until the next annual meeting.

The Committee on the Conduct of Schools & Examination of Students submitted the following as its report which was read and on motion the same was approved & its recommendations adopted by a unanimous vote:

Your Committee on the Conduct of Schools begs leave to report as follows on the petitions referred to it this day:

1. That the request of Profr Perkinson for an Assistant be granted for the rest of the present session, said Assistant to receive compensation at the rate of $400. per session.

2. That the Faculty be sustained in their disapproval of the application of Mr Jas H. Corbitt to receive the M. A. degree at the end of the present session upon terms not authorized by the laws of the University.

3. That the Faculty be sustained in their disapproval of the application of Mr R. E. L. Farmer to receive the M. A. degree at the end of the present session upon terms not authorized by the laws of the University.

4. That the petition of Mr W. A. Lambeth, Instructor in Physical Culture, that he be allowed to attend without charge such classes in the Medical Department as the Faculty Committee in charge of the Gymnasium may approve, be granted.

5. That the petition of Mr George M. Peek, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering for a dormitory free of rent & for free tuition in the School of Applied Mathematics, be referred to the Faculty with authority to grant the same or any part thereof, as they may see proper.

6. That the application of Mr. W. H. Wenger to change from the Medical Dept to that of Pharmacy & to have his fees (already paid) transferred from the former to the latter department, be granted.

7. That the petition of Mr E. W. Roby for a reduction of the regular fees for tuition in the Law Department be disallowed.

8. That as this Committee has not sufficient time to consider carefully at this called meeting the protest of certain Masters of Arts against the change in the M. A. degree, the Committee respectfully requests further time to report on the same to the Board.
