<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1898)

## February 17, 1898

### Board of Visitors minutes

**University of Virginia, Board of Visitors**

February 17, 1898

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

**Public minutes**

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### Extra Orders.

**Equity Account. Memorandum of Special Hardware.**

**Prof. Smith's Physics Buildg Additional work on Prof Smith's room. Profr Thornton's account - as rendered to him.**

| Description | Amount |
|-------------|--------|
| Balance due on Contract | $14,993.40 |
| Total of Extras ordered (See detailed statement herewith) | $9,226.47 |
| Total of Extras ordered by Profrs Thornton and Smith (detailed statement herewith) | $470.01 |
| Total of Extra work ordered by Mr Skinner of various sub contractors - (See detailed statement herewith) | $3,068.08 |
| Reserve of sub-contractor's accounts held by the University | $322.99 |
| **Total** | $13,087.55 |
| Less No. 1 | $89.15 |
| 2 | $324.83 |
| 3 | $14.13 |
| 4 | $28.87 |
| 5 | $745.45 |
| **Amount of account** | $—;—; |
| Previous payment | $—;—; |
| **Approved for payment of** | **$11,885.12** |
| Feb'y 15, 1898 | |
| **Extra No. 1** | **Work on walls of old terraces** |
| Amount | $1,718.62 |
| Percentage | |
| **Extra No. 2** | **Moving pump Mechanical Laboratory** |
| Amount | $39.43 |
| Percentage | |
| **Extra No. 3** | **Constructing partitions, shelving, etc** |
| Amount | $473.00 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 4** | **Building 6 apparatus tables** |
| Amount | $111.00 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 5** | **Metal Lathing ceiling** |
| Amount | $15.00 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 6** | **Grading & Filling So. Wing Phys. Bl'dg.** |
| Amount | $11.20 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 9** | **Letters on Mech. & Phys. Bldgs.** |
| Amount | $137.63 |
| Per centage | |
| **Extra No. 9** | **Letters on Academical Bldgs.** |
| Amount | $182.37 |
| Per centage | |
| **Extra No. 10** | **Coating with Anti-Hydrine** |
| Amount | $21.63 |
| Per centage | |
| **Extra No. 11** | **Setting boilers in boiler house** |
| Amount | $2,132.71 |
| Per centage | |
| **Extra No. 12** | **Moving Engine from shed, Making foundation & templet** |
| Amount | $107.91 |
| Per centage | |
| **Extra No. 15** | **Stuccoing Academical** |
| Amount | $479.71 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 14** | **Lower garden steps** |
| Amount | $450.00 |
| Contract | |
| **Extra No. 13** | **Book Cases** |
| Amount | $3,346.20 |
| Contract | |
| **Total** | **$9,226.47** |

**Rotunda Building**

**Char. Lumber Co. Storm Door, Trim & Carpentry**

| Description | Amount |
|-------------|--------|
| B. & R. Storm Door, hardware | $202.62 |
| Char. Lumber Co. Miscellaneous trim in Rotunda supposed to be on hand | $89.15 |
| No. (1) Miscellaneous hardware in Rotunda, supposed to be on hand | $324.83 |
| (2) Gilman - Repairing in front terrace rooms and rough coating | $169.40 |
| Phillips Frosting glass in skylight | $7.50 |
| M. C. Co. Putting in 14 slabs under south porch | $14.13 |
| (3) M. C. Co. Moving opening for registers (main floor) | $3.00 |
| M. C. Co. Cutting pedestal, 3d Gal. Rail | $70.87 |
| **Academical Building.** | |
| Gilman Plain and ornamental caps. theatre | $90.30 |
| Char. Lumber Co. Material Lecture room stand | $3.81 |
| B. & R. Hardware | $28.87 |
| (4) Miscellaneous Painting | |
| Painting platform, East wing, (Acad.) | $3.85 |
| Painting 6 sinks in Phys Bldg | |
| Painting 2 sinks in Mech. Bldg | $3.52 |
| Painting Ceiling under lavatory (Phys.) | $3.85 |
| Painting 2 doors in Mech. | $4.95 |
| Painting 2 doors in Acad. | |
| Painting 1 door in Entrance to arcades | |
| Handrail coping in Acad. | $23.00 |
| **Miscellaneous Carpentry.** | |
| Changing door - back hall (Phys) | $2.85 |
| 4 pieces 3 + 2 - 16 scotia in basement | $2.00 |
| Cutting scuttle, etc. Acad. Bldg | $10.50 |
| Stand (Lecture Room) | $38.50 |
| Hand rail copping. | $60.00 |
| Shelving, stop for —; in basement brick wall, moulding etc. work on lecture stand in Acad. (Extra trim etc), Trim & Miscellaneous Carpentry (Phys) | $17.92 |
| **Prof. Smiths Work.** | |
| Gilman Repairing black board in main lecture room | $14.90 |
| Char. Lumber Co. Iron Hangers | $9.74 |
| Char. Lumber Co. Strips in Prof. Smiths room | $6.60 |
| Char. Lumber Co. Iron instrument stand (Phys) | $27.50 |
| Char. Lumber Co. One door to basement | $27.50 |
| **Additional work on Prof. Smith's room.** | |
| James Phillips | |
| Painting strip top and between - of blackboard, cleaning & varnishing base, etc. | $4.73 |
| Char. Lumber Co. | |
| Extra work on ceiling light, 9 pulleys | $23.37 |
| Freight on ceiling light | $3.60 |
| Jas Phillips | |
| Painting 3 screens around windows of Court temp. room | $2.72 |
| Gilman | |
| Painting of plaster around skylight in Main Phys Hall | $5.28 |
| **Ceiling Light Ribs.** | |
| Garden Steps. Should have been furnished with sash, Whitehurst | $233.00 |
| M.C. Co Garden steps - Rotunda no. (5) | $745.45 |
| M.C. Co Bulk heads to lower flight | $186.72 |

**Additional items ordered by Mr Skinner since above were approved:**

* Carpenter work- Material and labor for stairs in basement, (Acad.) | $110.00
* Cutting gateway in Acad., rail, | $5.50
* Changing astroyal on front doors (Acad.) (Phys) (Mech.) | $2.50
* Material for stage, door on stairway in (Acad.) | $30.00
* Painting. |
  * Painting inside of book cases (not specified) | $133.00
  * Painting 2 iron sinks (Acad) | $1.10
  * Painting front of 3 skylights | $2.50
  * Painting strips on front doors (Acad) | $1.75
  * Painting iron girders over skylight in Auditorium of Acad Bldg | $4.00
  * Painting strip on front doors (Phys) | $1.75
  * Painting zinc door to Arcade No. Wing | $1.50
  * Painting strips front door (Mech.) | $1.75
  * Filling and varnishing 18 window poles 25c | $4.50
* Plumbing.
  * J. E. Phillips. Connecting dry wells on lawn 51 soil pipe strainers, Bends (not in Extra No 1) | $24.20
  * $1583.29
  * $2890.37
  * The Manhattan Concrete Co.
  * Extra concrete steps in Acad. theatre | $25.40
  * Capping to crown moulding of two Acad. entrances | $17.85
  * Cement work at clock openings in pedmt of Rotunda in place of copper omitted | $11.40
  * Extra & special hardware distributed on the several lower buildings, net specified (as per memorandum) | $113.06
  * For repairing paving pulled up by the Southern Electric Co. (Mr Skinner's order) | $10.00
  * $3068.08

| Date | Description | Amount |
|------|-------------|--------|
| Nov. 12 | Esc.02588 for 1345 lock | |
| Nov. 23 | 2 doz. hand rail brackets 0100 1/2 | |
| Nov. 26 | 22 swivel pulleys | |
| Dec. 1 | 11 Tap. cleats | |
| Dec. 6 | 2 pr. butts 61 6 + 6 | |
| Dec. 6 | 5 sets of locks 1365 K 1519 1/2 E. 702589 1/4 | |
| Dec. 6 | 3 Esc. 02588 for inside | |
| Dec. 29 | 100 door stops R. T. Birch | |
| Dec. 29 | 150 floor stops R. T. Birch | $53.43 |
| Dec. 31 | 20 doz. sail sockets 2186 1/2 | |
|  | 1 doz. buttons #193 | |
|  | 8 pr butts 061 4 + 4 | |
|  | 8 bolts #1249 1/2 4in | |
|  | 8 chain bolts 1259 1/2 4in | |
|  | 12 door pulls 1619 1/2 5 1/2 in | |
|  | 2 Sample pivoted sash catches | |
| Jan. 13 | 12 Small special casements fasts. | |
|  | 6 Small special casements fasts. | |
|  | 3 transom lifts 84 1/2 4 ft | $27.22 |
| Jan. 20 | 10 sash bolts 1405 | $1.50 |
|  | Gilman Repairing blackboard in main lecture room | $14.90 |
|  | Char. Lumber Co Iron hangers | $9.74 |
|  | Char. Lumber Co Strips in Prof. Smith's room | $6.60 |
|  | Char. Lumber Co Iron Instrument stand (Phys) | $27.50 |
|  | Char. Lumber Co One door to basement | $27.50 |
|  | James Phillips - Painting strip top & between of blackboard, cleaning & varnishing base, etc | $4.13 |
|  | Char. Lumber Co. Extra work on ceiling light, 9 pulleys | $23.37 |
|  | Freight on ceiling light | $3.60 |
|  | Jas Phillips Painting 2 screens around windows of Court Temp Room | $2.72 |
|  | Gilman Painting of plaster around skylight in Main Phys Hall | $5.28 |
|  | $125.34 |
|  | Piers for machinery, etc, in Mechanical Basement | $231.30 |
|  | Work at boiler house | $91.30 |
|  | Additional work at boiler house | $22.07 |
|  | $344.67 |

The foregoing resolution (2) was offered by Mr Harmon and it was moved by Mr Miles that a recorded vote be taken thereon by a call of the ayes and nos, which was ordered and the vote so taken was as follows: Ayes, Messrs Bryan, Harmon, Irvine, Chandler and Mr Rector 5 Nos, Messrs Glass, Miles and Downing 3 So the resolution was adopted.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia called by the Rector and held in pursuance of notice, on the 17th day of February 1898,

Present, Armistead C. Gordon, Rector and Visitors Randolph, Irvine, Harmon and Bryan.

The Rector called the Board to order and then called Mr Bryan to the chair whilst he offered the following resolution which was read and adopted, and the Rector resumed the chair:

Resolved: That the proposition of Jno. Williams, per Messrs McKim, Mead & White to furnish and set in place complete, one cast bronze tablet in the entrance Hall of the Academical Building for the sum of $325., the same to be of oxidized statuary color, be accepted: said tablet to contain the following inscription:

"Even in our ashes live their wonted fires."

This Tablet commemorates the burning on October 27th, 1895 of the Rotunda and Public Hall of the University of —;Virginia:—;and the restoration of the Rotunda and the building of the Academical Hall, the Rouss Mechanical Laboratory and the Physical Laboratory, during the years 1896-1897 and 1898 under the direction of W. C. N. Randolph, Rector, Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, Wm Gordon McCabe, Daniel Harmon, Legh R Watts, Marshall McCormick, Thomas S. Martin, Rawley W. Martin, R. Tate Irvine, Joseph Bryan, Camm Patteson, Wm B. Mc- Ilwaine of the Visitors; William M. Thornton, William H. Echols of the Faculty, McKim, Mead & White, Architects.

1898.

The following was also enacted:

Resolved, that the certificate of the Architects for extra work completed before December 14th 1897, for $5430.27 be paid to R. F. Tucker the contractor.

Resolved, that bill of extras, so far as not ordered to be paid, and the Equity account of R. F. Tucker, contractor, be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved, that the certificate of the Architect for the payment of $2000. to W. J. Whitehurst supported by an order on R. F. Tucker's account of his sub contract for bookcases and screens in the library, be paid, with the condition that this payment is not to be regarded as an acceptance of the work.

Resolved, that the Rector be directed to execute the bond required to be given to the Board for the distribution of dead bodies for the Medical department, the penalty of said bond being $1000.

The Rector vacated the chair and called Mr Harmon to occupy it and then offered the following resolution which was adopted & after which he resumed the chair:

Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to have a copy of the minutes of the Building Committee made for Mr Armistead C. Gordon at his proper costs and charges.

Resolved, that the Proctor cause his clerk to record on the minute book of the Building Committee the contract of the Rector and Visitors with Ross F. Tucker for the completion of the buildings.

Resolved, that the two bills of J. E. Phillips for extra work amounting to $73.30 and $54. respectively, be paid.

Whereas, through a letter from Mr Robert L. Harrison this Board is informed that the friends of the late Alfred H. Byrd, a brilliant and distinguished young alumnus of the University of Virginia, who recently departed this life in New York City, have expressed a desire to present to the University for its Library an oil portrait of Mr Byrd by some artist of known reputation:

Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors will accept the contemplated gift with great satisfaction and will direct that the same be hung on our walls as a mark of respect for Mr Byrd's achievements as a student at this institution and an incentive to the students who shall come hereafter, to emulate his virtues.

Whereas, Miss Fanny M. Burke, a great-grand daughter of Mr Jefferson has expressed a desire to present to the University a copy made by her of Trumbull's sketch of Mr Jefferson's head which was executed by him in Paris for his picture of the signers of the Declaration of Independence in the Capitol at Washington.

Resolved, that the Rector and Visitors accept with thanks the gift of Miss Burke.

Resolved, that the Proctor be authorized to purchase necessary window shades for the new lecture rooms; also to have the outside of the Rotunda dome painted white and to have the inside of the dome painted or colored and the Library galleries painted white.

Resolved, that the P. K. Club be allowed the use of the Gymnasium for a ball on the night of June 11th 1898.

Resolved, that the fee bill of John B. Moon for legal services in connection with damage suits against the University, amounting to $490.50 be paid.

Resolved, that the name of the School of History and Political Economy be changed to the School of Historical and Economical Science.

Resolved, that the Health Committee be authorized to expend so much of the reservoir fund of $561. as may be necessary, in addition to the $1000. heretofore appropriated to avert a water famine.

Resolved, That action on the Report of the Committee on Retrenchment and Reform be deferred to a future meeting; and that the Senator and Representatives from Albemarle be requested to present to the General Assembly of Virginia if practicable the following memorial, on some day of the present session after the appropriation to the University shall have been fully disposed of:

### Memorial.

**Of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.**

In order to enable the Rector and Visitors of the University to properly and economically adjust the salaries and emoluments of the Professors in the University, they do memorialize the general assembly to so amend section 1551 of the Code of Virginia as to relieve the said Rector and Visitors of the legal necessity of providing residences for said Professors, or commutation therefor; so that said section as amended and re-enacted shall read as follows:

**Sec. 1551. Professor's salaries, fees, and houses.** Each professor shall received a stated salary, and may also receive such additional compensation out of the fees for tuition and other revenues of the University as the Visitors may from time to time direct.

Mr Irvine read and moved the adoption of the following resolutions in regard to a communication from Profr W. H. Echols in relation to the salary of the Profr of Mathematics:

1. Resolved, that in the opinion of the Board, the finances of the University are not in a condition to justify the payment of a greater sum for said salary during the current session than $2600. and a residence, as paid during the preceding year; but in taking this action the Board desires to place on record that it does not mean to place the Chair of Mathematics on a lower plane than the other full professorships of the University, nor to reflect on the efficiency and ability of Profr Echols whose work has been and is, entirely satisfactory in every respect, to this Board, but financial reasons alone controlling this action, it having been the intention of the Board at the time of the election of Profr Echols and the present Adjunct professor of Mathematics that the total amount paid on account of this school should not exceed that formerly paid.

2. Resolved, further, that the question of equalizing the salary of the professor of Mathematics with that of the other chairs of the University, be left for the action of the incoming Board.

Mr Gordon offered the following as a substitute for Mr Irvine's resolution:

Resolved, that the salary of the Professor Mathematics, W. H. Echols be fixed at $3000. per annum, and a residence, or commutation of rent, beginning with July 1, 1897.

A vote was first taken on the adoption of the substitute and it was defeated.

The resolutions of Mr Irvine were then voted on and the same were adopted.

On motion it was

Resolved, that the Board adjourn to meet on March 17th 1898.

### University of Virginia, March 17th 1898.

The Visitors met this, the 17th day of March 1898, pursuant to the adjourning order of the Board made on the 17th ult., of which all of the Visitors were duly notified by the Secretary in advance of this meeting.

Present, Daniel Harmon, R. J. Irvine, Joseph Bryan, of the late Board, and Charles P. Jones, Carter Glass, Algernon B. Chandler, George W. Miles and Henry H. Downing, the five Visitors recently commissioned as such by the Governor of Virginia to serve for the term of four years next ensuing the 28th day of February 1898, Vice, W. C. N. Randolph, Legh R. Watts, Armistead C. Gordon and Henry T. Wickham, the last named being the successor of Mr Camm Patteson, resigned Decr 10th 1897.

Absent W. B. McIlwaine.

Mr Harmon, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the late Board, called the meeting to order and stated the first order of business to be the election of a Rector and Secretary whereupon Mr Irvine nominated for Rector Mr C. P. Jones which was seconded by Mr Bryan, and there being no other nomination, the vote was taken and Mr Jones unanimously elected.

The Rector took the chair and announced that the election of a Secretary was next in order,- Mr Irvine thereupon nominated Mr James D. Jones, the late incumbent, which was seconded by Mr Harmon, there was no other nomination, and the vote was taken and Mr Jones unanimously elected Secretary.

On motion the Board then proceeded to elect members of the Executive Committee and the following Visitors were proposed, and elected, viz:

Messrs Harmon, Chairman, Jones, Rector, Glass, Bryan and Miles.

The Chairman of the Faculty submitted a report of the Faculty which is in the following words and figures, to wit:

As chairman of the University I take pleasure in reporting that so far this session the health and general conduct of the students have been extremely good, and I take still greater pleasure in reporting that they have met their financial obligations in a way that leads me to hope that the deficiency caused by the action of the Legislature can be largely made up in this office.

The following recommendations of the Faculty are respectfully submitted with the hope that they will be approved. Should the Board find anything herein not perfectly understood, the Chairman would be glad to have the opportunity to explain.

1. The Committee on advertising recommends that the Board of Visitors be requested to appoint Rev. J. Williams Jones agent for the University, for three months, at a salary of one hundred dollars a month and traveling expenses.

2. The following recommended by the Library Committee is adopted: "That the Visitors be requested to appropriate out of the restoration fund of $300.00, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to meet the expenses of moving the books, of purchasing such additional tables and chairs, of putting locks on the cases in the upper gallery, etc".

3. The following resolution was unanimously adopted:-

"In view of Col Charles S. Venable's self-sacrificing labor in behalf of the University of Virginia and of his personal devotion to his Alma Mater, and in view further of this distinguished services as Professor of Mathematics,

Be it resolved, that the Faculty herewith memorializes the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to declare Col Venable Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, and to order his name restored to the official list of University professors in the former position of relative official seniority."

4. "Resolved, that it be recommended to the Visitors to extend the Christmas holiday from Decr 24th to Jan. 2nd, including both dates. Ayes 10 Nos 5."

5. "Resolved, that the Chairman is requested to ask the Visitors to make an early appropriation for chandaliers for all the buildings."

6. "Resolved, that it be recommended to the Visitors to appropriate $150.00 for the purpose of putting an electric system of time service in the University."

7. "Resolved, that the Faculty recommends to the Rector and Visitors the enactment of a regulation authorizing the chairman to permit, at his discretion, ministers of the Gospel and approved candidates for the ministry to matriculate in the Academic Department for a term of three months upon the payment of the proper proportion, namely one third, of the ma- triculation fees."

8. "Resolved, that the Board be requested to provide the lecture rooms with comfortable seats before the beginning of the next session, The Faculty deeming this of even more importance than the seating of the Public Hall."

9. "Resolved, that the Department of Agriculture is at present the only one in the University in connection with which there is no definite course of work looking to a degree. The Board of Visitors are therefore requested to authorize this Department of the University to offer the degree of Bachelor of Science to students who comply with the following requirements:-

"The completion of one B. S. Course in each of the following subjects with graduation in any two of the schools represented, viz,:-

"Botany, General Chemistry Physics, Comparative Anatomy, Analytical Chemistry, and Geology; the completion of one B. S. course from the group of Mathematical Sciences; and of the course in scientific French and scientific German."

"The B. S. Course shall in each case be the same as, or the equivalent of, the B. A. course in the same subject."

10. "Resolved, that the Buildings of the University, be offered, in so far as they are needed, for the use of the School of Methods, which will meet this summer in Charlottesville."

Hoping that the above suggestions may all be approved, I remain very respectfully,

To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Gentlemen: In view of the contemplated dedication of the new buildings in June next it is absolutely imperative that the Board should decide now what sum of money it can appropriate for this celebration. This sum should be appropriated and made available at once, as the Joint Committee on celebrations can do nothing until they know exactly what sum is at hand. The celebration is but a part of the necessary advertising of the University and in view of all the circumstances should be as liberally provided for as possible.

I have just received a letter from my brother, stating that you have a meeting of the Committee and Board of Visitors on March 17th. The final certificate has been sent, and you also have our bill in full.

I enclose you herewith copy of Mr Tucker's estimate for the connecting arcades between the Academical building and the Physics and Mechanics. This is somewhat lower than his former estimate, for the reason that after carefully thinking over the matter when I was last there, I determined it would be better to lower the height of the arcade somewhat and stand the columns on the ground, in order to make them conform entirely with the character of the old work.

I send you also a tracing showing this.

In reply to your request for figures for the connecting arcades on the University of Virginia, will say that we will construct the two arcades connecting the Academical with the Mechanical and with the Physical buildings, for the sum of $1250.00 each.

This includes cutting down the piers of the Arcades as now built, cutting the stone capping to form a plinth, concrete columns with paneled square faces on rear, and with all woodwork painted white.

We assume that the portion over the cap of the columns will be built up hollow to form the architrave.

Hoping to receive your order for this work, we are,
