<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1904) May 14, 1904

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 14, 1904

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors held at the University on May 14, 1904.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Moore, Glass, Hunton, Wallace, Downing, & White.

The Board having been called to order by the Rector, the following resolutions were adopted:

Mr. Moon, the Attorney for the Board in the matter, reported the present status of the claim of Mr. Massie for the alleged pollution of a stream running through his land by the sewerage from some of the University buildings—; Whereupon it was resolved that Mr. Harmon & Col. Carter be, and are hereby, appointed a committee to confer with Mr. Moon, and report to the next meeting of the Board the proper course, in their judgment, to be pursued by the Board.

On motion the Board adjourned to the annual meeting June 13th 1904.
