<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1907) December 2, 1907

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 2, 1907

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## Regulations

Mr. Harmon,\
aye.

Mr. Moore,\
aye,

Mr. Norton,\
aye,

Mr. Craddock,\
aye,

Mr. Hunton,\
aye,

The Rector,\
No.

5 ayes,\
1 No.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, in the President's Office, East Lawn,

Present The Rector and Visitors Hunton, Moore, Harmon, Norton, Craddock, and President Alderman,

The Rector having called the Board to order at 8.30 o'clock, P. M., the following was adopted,-

Resolved: That the sum of fifty dollars be appropriated to cover cost of charter for chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the University of Virginia.

Resolved: That Professor William Minor Lile, on account of ill health, be granted leave of absence during the session of 1907-8, on half salary, and that Armistead M. Dobie be elected Adjunct Professor of Law at a salary of $1,500.00 per annum, for the session of 1907-'8.

Resolved: That Dr. H. E. Jordan be elected Adjunct Professor of Anatomy, Histology, and Embryology, at a salary of $1,250.00

Resolved: That Dr. H. B. Stone be elected Adjunct Professor of Surgery, at a salary of $1,500.00

The following recommendations, and regulations offered by the Faculty were adopted,-

The Faculty of the Department of Engineering desires to recommend to the President and Faculty the following programme of courses in Geology for students of Engineering; all given by the Professor of Economic Geology.

**General Geology.** - A course of three (3) lectures per week with an allowance of nine hours a week for laboratory work, field surveys, and private study. This course will cover the topics of Dynamical, Structural, and Topographic Geology, together with the Geology of Building Stones, Ores, etc. Required for both "C. E." and "E. M."

**Mineralogy.** - A laboratory course of six (6) hours per week on Crystallography and Mineralogy, the professor consuming such part of this time as seems desirable in lectures. Required for "E. M."

**Economic Geology.** -

A course of twelve (12) hours per week covering the topics of the Geology of Ore-Deposits—;both metallic and non-metallic, the Structural Geology of Mines, and the Stratigraphic Geology of Mines. The division of time between lectures, laboratory work, field surveys, and study will be made by the Professor after conference with the Dean.

Required for "E. M."

I. Every student shall be required to register with the Dean of his Department on the first week-day after the Christmas Recess between the hours of nine A. M. and two P. M.

II. Any student, delinquent under Section I, shall have his name dropped from the rolls of his classes until further orders from the Dean.

III. Such student may again be registered by the Dean, and restored to his position in his classes upon payment to the Bursar of the delayed registration fee of $3.00.

IV. In case the delay in the student's return from the Christmas vacation is due to illness, or other like providential cause, the Dean is authorized to remit the fee and excuse the absence.

V. In every other case the absences due to delayed return shall be recorded as unexcused absences; shall be so reported to the parent or guardian of the student, and shall be given serious adverse weight in considering the fitness of the student for graduation.

A student of the College who attains in any course a grade below 75 per cent, but not below 65 per cent, may upon the written recommendation of the professor in charge be admitted by the Faculty at their final meeting in June to re-examination upon that course during the Registration week of the following September.

The fee for each re-examination shall be five ($5.00) payable to the Bursar of the University, and this fee shall be in no case returnable. The Dean of the College will at once notify each student admitted to re-examination and the fee for the same shall be paid to the Bursar on or before the 15th of July. Should the student fail to deposit this fee with the Bursar in due time or fail to attend upon the examination, the permit for re-examination is void.

A student who fails to sustain himself either in the original examination or in the re-examination upon any course elected, shall upon re-admission be required to attend lectures a second time upon that course and pass the regular examinations thereon, unless excused by special vote of the Faculty.

An official schedule of the September examinations shall be prepared and issued by the Dean to all candidates registered for such examinations not later than the first of August.

The Dean shall furnish to the members of the Academic Faculty concerned, not later than September 1, a list of the candidates entitled to re-examination,—;together with the official schedule of the examinations.

Resolved: That Mr. W. H. White, counsel for the University of Virginia in the contest over the will of Edward W. James now pending in the Circuit Court of the City of Norfolk, be and he is hereby authorized to take any steps he may deem proper to compromise this litigation, first having obtained the approval of the Rector, the President, and Eppa Hunton, Jr.

Resolved: That the compromise of the bequest to Miss Mary Archer Hooper of $20,000 of Virginia Century bonds under the will of Edward James at $12,500. cash, be and the same is hereby ratified and approved.

Resolved: That Mr. John B. Moon be continued as General Counsel of Board, at a salary of $750.00 per annum, and his necessary expenses in connection with the legal business of the University, not to exceed $250.00 per annum.

Resolved: That the sum of Seven Hundred Fifty ($750.00) Dollars be appropriated annually, to be placed to the credit of the President, and to be used by him in such necessary entertainment of distinguished visitors to the University, and in such necessary local entertaining as he may consider helpful to the best interests of the University.

Resolved That the request of Dr. J. W. Mallet, that upon his withdrawal from active service as professor, he may continue to remain in his present residence, he paying $300.00 per annum rent therefor, be granted. The Board regrets that it feels constrained to require rent to be paid therefor.

Resolved That the recommendation of the Faculty with regard to a change in the degrees of "Bachelor of Arts" and "Master of Arts" be laid on the table for final action at the next meeting of the Board at the University, with the request that members of the Faculty opposing the change then appear and present their views on the subject.

Resolved: That the resignation of Dr. Charles S. Venable, as Clinical Instructor in Skin Diseases, (sent to the President) be accepted.

Resolved: That the Rector appoint a committee of three from this Board, with authority and instructions to engage the services of an expert accountant for the purpose of inaugurating and installing what may be determined to be the best system of accounting for the purposes of this University. Visitors Craddock, Harmon & the President.

Resolved: That the Finance Committee be authorized and instructed to invest the following funds of the University in such securities as they may deem proper, to be deposited with the Virginia Trust Company, to be held with the other securities of the University:

a. Carter bequest, $10,000.00 now on deposit in the Peoples' National Bank, Charlottesville, Va., evidenced by certificate bearing three per cent. interest, payable January 3, 1908.

b. Leterman Company bond, $1,000.00 maturing January 1, 1908.

c. One Thousand Dollars of Birely Scholarship, now with current funds of the University.

Resolved That the Finance Committee be authorized to loan such of the Virginia three per cent. bonds which may be held by this University and the $48,000.00 bonds of the City of Roanoke, Va., owned by the University, or such part thereof as it may determine, to one or more National Banks, provided such Bank has a combined capital and surplus exceeding $500,000.00, located within the State of Virginia, upon the following terms and conditions:

a. The said bank is to pay to the University of Virginia interest at a rate not less than one and one fourth per cent. (1 1/4 %) per annum, payable semi-annually, January and July 1st, for such time as the said bonds may remain on deposit with them, and, in addition, the said bank is to pay interest on these bonds when and as paid by the State of Virginia and the City of Roanoke, Va.

b. The said bank is to bind itself to return any or all of the bonds on thirty days' notice and demand from either the Rector or Chairman of the Finance Committee of this Board; the bank having the like privilege of returning the bonds to the University of Virginia upon thirty days' notice.

c. A formal receipt for the bonds upon the conditions named in the preceding clauses, describing in detail the bonds, is to be furnished by the said bank, signed by its President and Cashier, with an attested copy of Resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the transaction.

d. In addition, the said bank is to furnish a bond in some acceptable guaranty company of not less than one million ($1,000,000.00) dollars capital, for the full amount of the bonds so loaned, indemnifying the University against any loss that it may sustain by reason of loan of said bonds.

e. The receipt as above described to be given by the Bank, together with indemnifying bond, are to be deposited with The Virginia Trust Company of Richmond, Virginia, with authority to collect interest in accordance with the agreement, rendering an account, as is not done, upon stated periods, to the Bursar of the University.

f. A copy of this Resolution is to be filed with the Virginia Trust Company as its authority for turning over to the Finance Committee the bonds herein described and doing such further acts as may be necessary on its part for the consummation of the agreement herein authorized.

g. Any receipts and guarantee bonds taken in connection with this transaction shall be approved as to form by the attorney for the Board.

### Recorded Vote:

The following Report of the special committee on lease of University grounds to professors and fraternities, was received, adopted, and ordered to be spread on the minutes:

**To the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia**

The undersigned Committee of the Visitors and Faculty, to whom were referred the applications of certain professors, and of certain fraternities for leave to erect buildings on the grounds of the University of Virginia, respectfully report

(1st) The services of a competent landscape architect should be secured to make a proper plan of the grounds that may be used for the purposes of such buildings, and all improvements should be made in accordance with such plans.

The applications from professors have generally been with reference to lots to be selected in the vicinity of Dr. Whitehead's residence, and the applications from the student fraternities have been with reference to locations on Carr's Hill. Especially with reference to Carr's Hill it seems important that the natural beauties of the location should be considered and preserved, and no buildings should be erected there until the style of architecture is approved, and to that end the assistance of a consulting architect should be obtained in all instances.

(2nd) Your committee returns herewith and recommends the adoption of the form of a lease for professors houses and also the plan proposed under which fraternity houses may be erected.

(signed) D. Harmon, Chairman.\
J. K. M. Norton,\
William M. Thornton,\
W. A. Lambeth.

Resolved: That the Rector be authorized to execute in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, leases to such professor or professors as may desire the same, of ground not to exceed two acres, upon which to erect residences as follows. In all cases, however, the location and plans of the building or buildings to be approved by the President and the Chairman of the Executive Committee before the making of such lease.

I. This agreement made this     day of       between the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, hereinafter styled the lessor, party of the first part, and                 hereinafter styled the lessee, party of the second part:

Whereas the lessee is a professor at the said University, holding his appointment as such under the lessor, and it is desirable in view of his employment that he should be enabled to provide himself a place of residence at the said University, Now, therefore, this agreement witnesseth:

First. That the said lessee doth lease for the term of fifty (50) years, commencing on the     day of       A. D., all that lot or parcel of land owned by the said lessor in Albemarle County, Virginia, bounded and described as follows: (here insert location and description). And the said lessor reserves as rent for the said land, as long as the same is occupied by said lessee or his widow, as herein provided for, the sum of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per annum, payable at the end of each year. But should the said property cease to be occupied by the said lessee or his widow, then at the end of five years from the commencement of this lease, and also after the expiration of each period of five years thereafter, during the continuance of the lease, the rent reserved and to be paid for the said ground, shall be fixed by the agreement of the said lessor, and the said lessee, or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of and succeed to any of the rights of the said lessee under this agreement, or if they cannot agree, then the said rent shall be ascertained and determined by three disinterested persons, to be selected, one by the said lessor, and one by the said lessee or such person or persons, as shall stand in the place of and succeed to any of the rights of the lessee under this agreement, and the two persons thus selected, shall choose a third. The annual rental, so ascertained and fixed shall be final for the five year period for which it is ascertained, but in no case shall the rent be less than Twenty-five Dollars ($25.) per annum.

Second. The lessee covenants that he will within one year from the beginning of the lease erect a dwelling house and improvements upon the said ground, to cost not less than $      , and in accordance with the plans annexed hereto,    

Third. The lessee shall have the right to occupy the premises so long as he continues as a professor or otherwise in the employ of the said University, and in case of his death, while in the employment of the said University, leaving a widow, then said widow shall have a right to occupy the same during her life. And should the employment of the said lessee by the University cease by reason of ill health or old age, then the lessee, and his widow, surviving him, shall have the right to occupy the premises during life, yielding and paying the said rent of Twenty-five Dollars ($25) per annum.

Fourth. In the event that the lessee or his widow shall cease to occupy the leased premises as a residence aforesaid, then the lessor shall have the right at any time thereafter to lease back from the lessees or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of or succeed to any of the rights of the lessee under this agreement, the ground aforesaid with improvements thereon for the remainder of the term, at such annual rent for the said improvements as may be agreed upon by the lessee and lessor or such person or persons as may stand in the place of or succeed to the rights of the said lessee under this agreement, or in the event of their failure to agree upon the amount of rent to be paid for such improvements, then the same shall be ascertained and determined in all respects by arbitration as heretofore provided, and as the decision and agreement of the persons selected for the purpose as aforesaid shall be final and whether the lessor shall or shall not have exercised its right to lease and rent back the said ground, with improvements thereon as aforesaid, it shall nevertheless always have the further right and privilege after the lessee or his widow shall have ceased to occupy the premises as aforesaid, upon giving the lessee or such person or persons as shall stand in his place or succeed to the rights of the lessee under this agreement, one year's written notice, which notice shall be given not later than the 1st of September of some year, to cancel and terminate this lease and take the improvements erected upon the leased premises at an appraised valuation to be determined in all respects by arbitration as hereinbefore provided; and this right to so cancel and terminate this lease may be exercised by the lessor any time after the same may have accrued to it; the said lessee or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of or succeed to the rights of the lessee under this agreement, to have the right, however, to retain possession of the said premises for the period of one year after the expiration of said one year's notice, yielding and paying the rent above provided therefor. And provided further that should the lessor fail to exercise his right as provided for in this clause to either lease back the improvements on said land or to take over and purchase the said improvements, or should the said lessee or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of or succeed to the rights of the lessee under this agreement fail to name an arbitrator or otherwise to fully carry out the arbitration provided for in this clause, then, and in either of these events, the lessee or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of or succeed to the rights of the lessee under this agreement, shall have the right for a period of six months, to sell the improvements on said leased ground, to some other person than said lessor, either publicly or privately, in which event said improvements shall be removed from the leased premises within a reasonable time, unless the purchaser makes some arrangement with the lessor to retain the ground; and should no sale of the improvements be made as last provided for, then the lessee or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of or succeed to the rights of the lessee under this agreement, shall remove said improvements within six months from the end of the period in which he has a right to sell said improvements as last above provided for.

Fifth. For so long as the leased premises may remain under the control of the lessee, or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of and succeed to any of the rights of the said lessee under this agreement, after the same shall cease to be occupied as a residence of himself or his widow, as aforesaid, and subject always to the right of the lessor, as provided in paragraph four hereof, the lessee, or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of and succeed to any of the rights of the said lessee under the agreement, shall have the right by and with the consent in writing of the lessor, to assign and sublet the leased ground and improvements thereon, and the lessee covenants with the lessor that no person shall ever occupy and hold the leased premises or any part thereof, as such assignee or sublessee without the consent in writing of the lessor first for that purpose obtained.

Sixth, The lessee covenants to and with the lessor for himself, his personal representatives and assigns, to pay the rent herein mentioned or provided for.

Seventh. At the expiration of the term of this lease, in case it shall not have been previously terminated as aforesaid, the lessor, at its option may purchase the buildings and improvements then on the leased premises at a price to be agreed on by the parties in interest, or if they cannot so agree, then at an appraised value to be ascertained and fixed by disinterested parties in the manner hereinbefore provided, but if the lessor does not exercise its right to so purchase such buildings and improvements, then the lessee, or such person or persons as shall stand in the place of and succeed to any of the rights of the lessee under this agreement, shall have the right to sell or remove the buildings and improvements on the said premises, as above provided, or to require from and be granted by the lessor a renewal of this lease, for the further term of fifty years upon the terms, conditions and stipulations hereinbefore set forth, except that any such renewal lease shall not itself contain a further renewal lease.

Eighth. All taxes and public demands, assessed against the improvements on said leased premises during the continuance of this lease, shall be paid by the lessee; but any charges against the land covered by this lease for public improvements of any sort, if there be any, shall be borne by the lessor.

Ninth. The said lessee covenants for himself, his personal representatives and assigns, to comply with all sanitary regulations that may be prescribed by the said lessor.

In testimony whereof the party of the first part has caused its name and Corporate seal to be hereunto affixed by its Rector and Chief Officer, and attested by its Secretary, and the said party of the second part has hereunto affixed his hand and seal on this \_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.

Resolved: That should Dr. R. H. Whitehead desire the lease heretofore made with him to be changed to conform to the foregoing form of lease, that the Rector be authorized to execute in the name of and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University such contract as may be necessary to supercede the former lease with him, and make the same conform to the foregoing form.

Any of the societies or fraternities having chapters or permanent organizations among the students of the University which shall first be incorporated and shall present evidence of their pecuniary ability to erect such a hall for their own use as shall present in durability, safety and style, an appearance in keeping with the other buildings upon the grounds of the University, will be authorized to erect such buildings upon the grounds of the University for their own use, subject to the following conditions, to-wit:-

I. "Such buildings shall be of brick, covered with metal or slate, and of such dimensions and style and according to such plans and specifications, and on such site as shall be approved by the President, Chairman of Executive Committee, and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, and accepted by the Visitors or their Executive Committee.

2. "No such erection shall be commenced without an express waiver on the part of the general contractor, or contractors, of the right to any mechanics' or builders' or other lien, and ample guaranty against any such lien by way of sub-contractor or furnisher of materials, it being the express purpose of the Visitors to exclude the possibility of such liens being asserted against the grounds occupied, or the buildings to be erected.

3. The Rector and Visitors will loan the fraternity corporation, at five per cent interest, payable semi-annually, such sum as may be agreed upon not exceeding two-thirds of the cost of the building, to be used in part payment for the cost of the building. The repayment of the same at the time agreed upon to be secured by writing under seal and by a fire insurance policy equal to the amount of the loan. The Visitors to have the right, without being under obligation to do so, to pay any premiums necessary to keep up such insurance. Any such premiums so paid to be treated as an addition to the rent for the current year.

4. The Rector and Visitors will lease to the said fraternity corporation the site selected for the building, at an annual ground rent of $ (a nominal sum), such lease to be on the conditions following, to-wit:

(a) The lease to continue until there is breach of any one or more of the conditions hereof.

(b) The building shall be used for the purpose of a students' chapter or fraternity house by the society erecting the same and as lodging rooms by the individual members of such society, exclusively.

(c) The building shall be at all times as fully subject to inspection and visitations by the authorities of the University, and for police purposes and the ends of discipline, as any of the public buildings of the University.

(d) During the use and occupation of such buildings by such society the same shall be cared for and kept in order and in such reasonable repair as the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings shall require at the expense of the society which erected the same, and without charge to the University, and such repairs shall include restoration in case of damage or destruction by fire.

(e) In case of default for six months in the payment of the principal of any installment of the interest of the aforesaid loan, or in case of any default in keeping in effect the aforesaid fire insurance, or in case of the breach of any of the other conditions hereof, or if any such building shall cease to be used for the aforesaid purposes of the society by which it was originally erected or be used in a manner not satisfactory to the Visitors, then and in either event, after sixty days written notice given by the Secretary of the Board, at any time after such default to any member of said society at the University, or if no such member can be found there, then without notice, the Visitors shall have the right to enter upon their records the fact of such default or breach of condition, and to require the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, or such other officer or agent of the University as may be designated by them to take possession of the said building and site, and the same shall become the property of the University subject to be thenceforth applied to such purposes as the Visitors may from time to time designate free and forever discharged from all rights of the lessee hereunder. Provided, if the said building shall be taken in charge in consequence of the dissolution or discontinuance of the said society at the University, if the society should be resuscitated and within two (2) years after possession is so taken, or if in case of default for six months in payment of the principal or any installment of the interest of the aforesaid loan, the building shall have been taken possession of by such officer of the University as the Board of Visitors shall have designated, if the society within two years make application to the Visitors for its restoration to its uses, the Visitors will restore the same on the terms and conditions hereinbefore set out, provided any sum of money then in default is made good and satisfactory evidence is presented of the ability of the society to perform thereafter the obligations of this contract.

(5) Every contract in respect to such buildings shall be made with the approval of the Executive Committee, reduced in writing in advance, and shall be spread upon the minute book of the Visitors.

6. Should the Board of Visitors at any time in the future, change its views as to fraternities, and desire in any way to recall any rights that may have been granted with reference to fraternity houses, they shall at any time have the right to revoke any or all such rights and take possession of any fraternity house and revoke all rights granted in reference thereto, upon paying for such house such price as may be agreed upon, and upon failure to agree upon a price, the same shall be fixed by arbitration—;one arbitrator to be selected by each party and the two so selected to choose a third arbitrator, the decision of the arbitrators to be final. This provision shall be substantially incorporated in every agreement.

On motion the Board adjourned, subject to call of the Rector.
