<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1913)

## June 16, 1913

### Board of Visitors minutes

#### University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 16, 1913

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

#### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors on above date, in the office of the President, East Lawn.

Present: Rector Gordon, Visitors Michie, Oliver, Drewry and Flood, and Acting President James M. Page.

The Board having been called to order at 11:00 o'clock, by the Rector, the following was adopted:

Resolved: (1) That the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have heard with profound gratification that Mr. Thomas F. Ryan will, at least during his lifetime, pay for ten scholarships in this University, each of the value of $300.00 per annum (or five scholarships at $600.00 each.)

(2) That the Rector and Visitors on the part of the University, accept the gift of Mr. Ryan; and desire to express their keen appreciation of his generosity and patriotism in thus broadening the opportunities of the University for usefulness by assisting a worthy group of young Virginians to secure the benefits of a higher education.

Resolved: (1) That the Rector and Visitors accept with thanks the portrait of Dr. George Ross, presented to the University by Mr. D. Courcy W. Thom of Baltimore, Md.

(2) That it will be with peculiar pleasure that the Visitors will direct the hanging of this portrait as one most worthy to adorn the walls of Alma Mater,—; and to perpetuate the memory of the First Lieutenant of the "Southern Guards," an alumnus who has won distinction as soldier, physician and poet.

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors accept, on behalf of the University of Virginia, with appreciative thanks, the gift of Mr. W. K. Bixby, of St. Louis, of a photographic copy of an original manuscript of Swinburne.

Resolved: That the sum of $50., be and is hereby appropriated as the amount of the subscription for the current fiscal year of the University of Virginia as a member of the Monticello Graveyard Association.

Resolved: That a sum not to exceed $50.00 be and is hereby appropriated to pay for Trophy Cup to be contested for year after year by the Boy Scouts during their visit to the University Summer School.

Resolved: That a sum not exceeding $50.00 be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of providing drinking fountains for the students of the University.

Resolved: That Mr. Albert G. A. Baiz be and is hereby elected to fill the Adjunct Professorship in the Corcoran School of Philosophy which was created at the meeting of the Board of Visitors on May 20, 1913.

Resolved: That Dr. S. Alfred Mitchell, Professor of Astronomy in Columbia University, and acting Director of Yukes Observatory of the University of Chicago, be and is hereby elected Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Leander McCormick Observatory in this University, at an emolument of $3,000. per annum, and the professor's house on Mt. Jefferson, free of rent.

Resolved: That the matter of creating the position of Director of Out-patient work and Instructor in Clinical Medicine, be referred to the Executive Committee of this Board, with power to act, after full consultation with the President of the University. It is understood that the Executive Committee shall have the authority to fill the position, at a salary not to exceed $100.00 a month, if the President and the Committee deem it wise to create this instructorship.

Resolved: That, in accordance with the recommendation of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, the sum of $850.00 per annum, be and is hereby appropriated for the purpose of furnishing day current for the laboratories and departments of the University which need the same.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors and the Dean of the University be and are hereby authorized to expend a sum not to exceed $300.00 in employing Mr. L. D. Crenshaw during the months of July and August to assist in securing students for the University next session.

Resolved: That the sum of $135.78 the unexpended balance to the credit of the laboratory of Clinical Diagnosis, be and is hereby re-appropriated for the benefit of the said laboratory.

Resolved: That a sum not to exceed $500.00 be and is hereby appropriated to pay Mr. L. D. Crenshaw for his work on the re-union of alumni, etc., during the months of April, May and June. Of this sum, $300.00 are to be applied to the payment of Mr. Crenshaw's salary; and a sum not to exceed $200.00 to pay for his office expenses.

Resolved: That Mr. E. I. Carruthers the Bursar of the University, and Mr. John B. Moon, Attorney for the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, who are hereby appointed a committee for the purpose, be and they are hereby authorized on behalf of this Board, in their discretion to agree upon a division in kind and divide the remaining undisposed of personal assets of the late Cumberland George Herndon, as to which the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia were residuary legatees of one-third and Mrs. Lizzie H. Stearns and Mrs. George H. Sinclair were the residuary legatees of the other two-thirds, the said division to be made pursuant to the contract between the parties of Mar. 28, 1913.

Resolved, further: That Mr. E. I. Carruthers, the Bursar of the University, be authorized on behalf of this Board to attend the sale of the real estate of the said Herndon advertised for sale in Washington to-morrow, by the National Savings & Trust Company, Executor and Trustee under said Herndon's will, and do what may be needful to prevent any gross sacrifice of the said real estate in the proceeds of which the University is interested to the extent of one-third.

### Supplementary Report of the Dean of the Law School. 1912-1913

I have already advised you by letter of the matter of this supplementary report, but at the suggestion of Dean Page, I am now putting the matter in such form that it may be laid before the Visitors at their meeting to be held within the next few days. As you have not acted officially in the matter, and as there is not now time to transmit this report to you for action, the purpose of bringing it before the Visitors at this meeting is not for action thereon, but in the hope that they may refer it to you, or to yourself and the Executive Committee, for such action as you may deem wise—; and thus secure earlier action than would otherwise be possible.

The matter referred to is the proposed establishment by the students of the Law School, of a Law Journal at the University.

Such journals now exist at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, and Michigan Universities, and all of them have met with unqualified success. Indeed, I know of no other single law journal published in this country comparable to any of the journals mentioned.

Three of these journals (Harvard, Yale and Columbia) are under the exclusive management—;(editorially and financially) of the students of the respective law schools, and the fourth is practically so.

From correspondence with the business management of these journals, it has been ascertained that they are all more than self-sustaining financially—; and one or more have accumulated quite a large surplus from earnings.

I feel sure that our law students are fully as capable of doing such work as the students of any law school in the country. If I entertained any doubt of this, I should discourage the venture with all my might.

The enterprise is purely a student one—; though it is to be expected that members of the Law Faculty will lend a certain supervision over the work—; certainly at the beginning— and a helping hand when the need is indicated.

A committee of students have been at work on the plans for some months, the outcome of which has been the formation of an association (un-incorporated for the present) known as the Virginia Law Review Association, with a constitution and by-laws, and all necessary officers. An Editorial Board (one member of which is Editor in Chief) has been named, consisting of twenty-five of the picked men of the Law School, and the work of each member has been mapped out. The Business Manager has already received bids for the printing. Every man in the Law School this session has taken, or will take, with him to his home a bundle of subscription blanks (already printed!), and has promised to solicit subscriptions during the summer. The members of the class have themselves subscribed for something like 200 copies. If each of these student solicitors secures one subscriber during the summer, the subscription list should number 500 by October 1, 1913, (the date of the proposed first issue) from these two sources alone. There are several thousand practicing lawyers who are alumni of the Law School. These will be thoroughly canvassed during the summer, by the Business Manager, in addition to a general campaign conducted among those who are not alumni. In view of the fact that (outside of the Virginia Law Register) there is not a decent law journal published in the south, the proposed journal, at the low price at which it will be offered ($2.50 per annum), should be able to secure a large number of subscribers, even from those who are not moved by any sense of interest in or loyalty to the Law School. In the light of these considerations, it is hoped that by October 1, the subscription list will number at least 1000. The estimate is that the 8 numbers a year (none will be published in vacation) will cost from $1,500 to $2,000. It is believed, therefore, that the enterprise will be self-sustaining from the first.

But the promoters feel a hesitation in undertaking such an enterprise without some financial backing. They feel,—; and I have so advised them—; that unless some financial backing can be secured—; something to fall back upon in case the venture proves to be not self-sustaining from the start, or by the end of the first year—; it would be unwise to proceed with it.

The purpose of this report is to bring the situation frankly before the President and the Board, and to ask, on behalf of these young gentlemen, who have no other purpose in mind than advancing the interests of the Law School, that the University extend the helping hand to them—; not in the way of ready cash, but in the way of its financial endorsement, to be used only in case of need.

To be on the safe side, it is suggested that this credit, if extended, should be not less than $1,000.00. This means that in case of a deficit, the University will stand behind the enterprise to the extent of the amount mentioned—; none of which, for reasons stated, it is believed will be needed.

It is unnecessary to enlarge upon the advantages to the Law School, and to the University at large, of such a publication. As an advertisement, its value could scarcely be estimated. No southern law school has attempted such a publication, and its presence here would place the Law School more distinctly than ever, in a class by itself.

The enthusiasm of the students is now at white heat, and the opportunity seems not one to be lost.

I cordially endorse the request, and hope that you and the Board may be able to see your way clear towards granting it.
