<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1916)

## October 19, 1916

### Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
October 19, 1916\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

#### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIPS.

* Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, W.S.A. Pott
* Assistant in School of Education, F.M. Alexander
* Assistant in School of Biology, T. C. Scott
* Assistant in School of Physics, C. S. Cole
* Assistant in School of Physics, R. B. Hiden
* Assistant in School of Chemistry, (Anal.) A.J.T. Brown
* Assistant in School of History, (Rives Fellow) H.L. Amonette
* Undergraduate Assistant in Law, Frank Camm
* Undergraduate Assistant in Law, W. P. Marks
* Undergraduate Assistant in Law, C. H. Shield
* Undergraduate Assistant in Law, Jno. L. Abbott
* Undergraduate Assistant in Law, R. W. Bell
* Assistant Librarian, (Law Dep't.) W. Wyatt, Jr.
* Instructor in Physical Culture, J. S. Graves
* Assistant in Physical Culture, D. C. Taylor
* Green Scholarship, C. H. Parsons

A called meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock in the President's Office, with the following present: Hon. Armistead C. Gordon, Rector, John W. Craddock, Goodrich Hatton, Geo. R. B. Michie, J. K. M. Norton, R. C. Stearnes, Robert Turnbull and President Alderman.

Minutes of the meeting of June 12th were approved.

President Alderman announced the following gifts and bequests:

* $250,000. in cash from a friend, to be used as might be deemed to the best interest of the University.
* $50,000. legacy under the will of Seth Low, to be paid over at the death of the widow.
* $5,000. Adams Fellowship from Columbia University, to Dr. S. A. Mitchell, professor of Astronomy.
* A small legacy under the will of Fayerweather; the amount not yet determined.
* A plaster cast (original of E. A. Poe) Ezekiel.
* Plaster models of Jefferson statue by Karl Bitter.
* Art work of Louis Tiffany from L. C. Tiffany.
* Portrait of Pembroke Thom.
* Medical and Scientific Journals, Mrs. Whitehead.

Upon the recommendation of the professors of Physics and the Catalogue Committee, with the approval of the President, the name of the School of Natural Philosophy was changed to School of Physics.

The following appropriations were passed:

* To furnish the Dean's Office, the sum of $125. or so much thereof as may be necessary.
* To lay brick walk at Dean's residence, $30.
* To renew furnace in Chapel, $300.
* To furnish Instructor in English Literature, $500.

The matter of the legacy to the University under the will of Robert L. Parrish was considered, and the following offered by Mr. Hatton, adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That the matter of the legacy under the will of R. L. Parrish, dec'd. be and is referred to the Attorney for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for investigation, and his opinion as to the legal right of the University under said will, and further as to the property of which the estate consists, and its value. Said report to be made as soon as possible to the Rector and the Finance Committee who are hereby empowered to take such action thereon as they may deem expedient.

The President advised the Board of the resignation of J. S. Grasty, Associate Professor of Geology, which was accepted.

Upon the recommendation of the President, Albert William Giles was elected Adjunct Professor of Geology, to succeed Prof. J. S. Grasty, resigned.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following appointments were confirmed:

* Albert William Giles, Adjunct Professor of Geology, to succeed Associate Professor J. S. Grasty, resigned;
* Wilmer Baker, M. D., (Tulane 1910) Instructor in Anatomy at a salary of $1,000.
* M. R. Pratt, M. D., Superintendent of the University Hospital, at a salary of $3,000.
* Lyman B. Kendall, 520 Park Avenue, New York City, a Member of the Astronomical Visiting Committee; and

The following appointments of Professors, Instructors and Assistants, not ratified at the last meeting of the Board.

The following names were nominated to the Governor of Virginia from which to make a selection to serve on the Virginia Art Commission, and the Board recommended to him the appointment of Duncan Smith on said Commission; Duncan Smith, R. E. L. Taylor, Waddy B. Wood and Eugene Bradbury.

Upon the recommendation of the Cemetery Committee, the following was adopted:

**RESOLVED**: That the Treasurer of the Cemetery Endowment Fund is authorized to expend, from the money received from the sale of the cemetery plots as before provided, as much of one hundred dollars as may be necessary to put this addition to the Cemetery in good order, and the remainder of these receipts are to be held by him (Bursar) as an Endowment Fund, while the interest therefrom shall be employed to keep this ground in neat condition.

The President brought to the attention of the Board a bill from the Hospital amounting to $295. for care and treatment of certain Diphtheria patients during the 1916 session of the Summer School, said patients being domiciled on the grounds of the University at the time of the outbreak of the epidemic, and asked for instructions in the settlement of same. After discussion, it was directed that the said bills be charged to the general expenses of the Hospital.

The Rector brought to the attention of the Board the following communication received by him from Jno. Fox, Sup't. of the C. & O. Ry. Co. at Clifton Forge, Va.:

Referring to your recent conversation with Mr. D. C. Ogg, Train Master, with reference to the proposed plan of having the University deed to the C. & O. Railway Company the land on which the University's coal trestle and track are located, and the proposed agreement between the University and the Railway Company to maintain the coal trestle and track hereafter on a basis of an equal division of the cost thereof, it being understood that the Railway Company shall have the privilege of making deliveries to outside parties on the said track and trestle; as requested by you, we are attaching blue print showing the location of the track and trestle and the property lines at this point.

We shall be glad if you will bring the matter to the attention of the Board of Visitors, and advise us what action they deem fit to take in the matter.

After a full discussion of the matter, the following was adopted:

**RESOLVED**: That the proposition of John Fox, Sup't. C. & O. Ry. Co., be declined, and the Secretary is directed to so notify him.

The Secretary sent the Sup't. the following letter:

Referring to your communication of the 16th of September, 1916, addressed to Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, Rector of the University of Virginia, in re- the plan proposed by you to have the University deed to your company the land on which the University's coal trestle and track are located, I am directed by the Board of Visitors to advise you that the matter was brought to their attention, and after a full discussion, they were unable to accede to your proposition.

The Board of Visitors are without authority to make a deed to any of the University's real estate.

The Committee on Alumni Scholarships, appointed at the June 1916 meeting of the General Alumni Association recommended to the Board the regulations with reference to Alumni Scholarships in this University, which was adopted as follows:

1. These scholarships shall be known as Alumni Scholarships.
2. Every Alumni Chapter, twenty-five per cent of whose local alumni are active members of the General Alumni Association (provided that such percentage equals ten alumni or more), shall be entitled annually to have one appointee at the University.
3. Every Alumni Chapter, twenty-five per cent of whose local alumni are active members of the General Alumni Association (provided that such percentage equals fifty alumni or more), shall be entitled annually to have two appointees at the University; and for every fifty members in excess of the first fifty above mentioned, each chapter shall be entitled to an additional appointee.
4. By "active" members as herein used, is meant alumni of the University, who have been admitted by the General Alumni Association as active members thereof, in accordance with the rules laid down by the General Alumni Association. But graduation in any department or school of the University is not hereby required.
5. Every Alumni Chapter shall announce each year in its local daily papers the nature and conditions of the scholarship, and shall request applicants to present proper credentials to the Secretary of the Chapter.
6. Only such persons may be appointed as actually stand in need of such aid and who cannot otherwise attend the University. Each applicant for a scholarship, as well as his parent or guardian, must file a statement in writing that the applicant actually stands in need of such aid. No student will be permitted to enjoy the privileges of an alumni scholarship while holding an endowed scholarship or fellowship, or while carried on the salaried list of the University as assistant or instructor in any department.
7. The incumbent must be at least sixteen years of age, and must be one who, in the judgment of the Chapter naming him, is studious and of good moral character. He must make application on a blank form provided by the Secretary of the General Alumni Association. He shall be subject to the same entrance requirements as other students.
8. The final appointment of each incumbent shall be made by the Executive Committee of the Chapter and reported to the Secretary of the General Alumni Association, on a form to be provided by him, at his office at the University not later than August 15th, preceding the opening of the session for which the incumbent is appointed.
9. These scholarships shall be confined to those courses in the Academic Schools of the University to which Virginia students are now admitted without charge under the laws of Virginia (that is, all Academic courses, save the courses in Analytical Chemistry). The scholarship shall entitle the incumbent to exemption from tuition fees in the Schools referred to except laboratory fees in general, and to the remission, if he be a Virginia, of the University fee; if he be not a Virginia, one-half of the University fee. The contingent fee must be deposited in all cases.
10. No incumbent shall hold such scholarship for more than one year; but one who has passed in all his courses at the University may be eligible for reappointment the following session, upon the recommendation of the Dean.
11. In the week following August 15th, the Secretary of the General Alumni Association shall notify each Chapter which has not yet made an appointment, that in case an appointment is not made by September 1st, the President of the University and the Secretary of the General Alumni Association in conference, will fill such vacant scholarship.
12. After all necessary formalities have been complied with, the Secretary of the General Alumni Association shall report the name of the incumbent together with that of the appointing Chapter, to the Dean of the University and to the Bursar.
13. In consideration of the material aid given through these scholarships, the incumbents thereof may be called upon by the Secretary of the General Alumni Association to render to the local Chapter, the Association, and the University such reasonable assistance as lies in their power towards the advancement of University and alumni interests.

The Bursar brought to the attention of the Board the matter of entering into a lease with Leonard Imboden for the rent of the central store room in the Entrance Building, and stated that Mr. Imboden had made him an offer of $1,200 per annum for the said room and had paid two monthly installments.

The matter was disposed of in the following offered by Judge Norton, and adopted:

**RESOLVED**: That the Bursar be instructed to return to Mr. Leonard Imboden, the money deposited with him by Mr. Imboden in the matter of his proposal to lease the room in the Entrance Building, with the statement that the Board declines the proposal, and that the Bursar be further instructed to send to Mr. Imboden a copy of this resolution.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.

Referring to your recent conversation with Mr. D. C. Ogg, Train Master, with reference to the proposed plan of having the University deed to the C. & O. Railway Company the land on which the University's coal trestle and track are located, and the proposed agreement between the University and the Railway Company to maintain the coal trestle and track hereafter on a basis of an equal division of the cost thereof, it being understood that the Railway Company shall have the privilege of making deliveries to outside parties on the said track and trestle; as requested by you, we are attaching blue print showing the location of the track and trestle and the property lines at this point.

We shall be glad if you will bring the matter to the attention of the Board of Visitors, and advise us what action they deem fit to take in the matter.

Referring to your communication of the 16th of September, 1916, addressed to Mr. Armistead C. Gordon, Rector of the University of Virginia, in re- the plan proposed by you to have the University deed to your company the land on which the University's coal trestle and track are located, I am directed by the Board of Visitors to advise you that the matter was brought to their attention, and after a full discussion, they were unable to accede to your proposition.

The Board of Visitors are without authority to make a deed to any of the University's real estate.
