<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1918)

## March 27, 1918

### board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 27, 1918

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Board was held on this date at 8 o'clock P. M. There were present Visitors R. T. Irvine, J. K. M. Norton, G. Hatton, C. Harding Walker, Alex. F. Robertson and H. Dalton Dillard, and President Alderman.

Messrs. Goodrich Hatton and C. Harding Walker, re-appointed, Alex. F. Robertson of Staunton, and H. Dalton Dillard of Rocky Mount, all having been nominated by the Governor, and confirmed by the State Senate to serve for terms of four years from Feb. 28, 1918, presented duly executed qualifications as Visitors of the University.

It being the regular time for the election of the officers of the Board, Mr. Hatton nominated Hon. R. Tate Irvine for the office of Rector, and he was unanimously elected. E. I. Carruthers was re-elected Secretary.

The minutes of the meeting of Dec. 28, 1917 were read, corrected and approved.

The Rector appointed the following standing committees of the Board:

* **Executive:** Michie, Hatton, Norton, Turnbull and the Rector.
* **Finance:** Walker, Michie and Bryan.
* **Grounds & Buildings:** Hatton, Robertson and Dillard.

On motion of Judge Norton, a resolution was adopted that a committee of three appointed by the Rector draft and present to the Board suitable resolutions touching the service of Mr. Armistead C. Gordon as Rector of the University. The Rector appointed Judge Norton, Mr. Hatton and the President.

President Alderman stated to the Board that an effort was being made to have the Orthopedic Hospital, for which an appropriation was made at the recent session of the General Assembly, located here in conjunction with the University Hospital, as it would be of great value to the Medical School. He stated also that there was in prospect a gift of funds to aid in erecting temporary quarters for said institution if it be decided by the State Board of Health to locate it here, and, in which event it would be necessary to add to the teaching staff an Orthopedist, at an expense of about $3,000. per annum.

The President was authorized to take such steps as he deemed wise to secure the location of the Orthopedic Hospital at the University.

The Secretary communicated to the Board that Wm. Endicott, 3rd, a co-trustee with Bentley W. Warren in the Austin Estate, had resigned, and that Irvin McD. Garfield had been selected at a former meeting of the Board, to succeed Mr. Endicott; that the Judge of the Probate Court of Norfolk County, (Mass.) desires the bond of Mr. Garfield be increased from $50,000. (the amount required of the former trustee) to $425,000. which would entail an additional cost to the University of $525. per year out of the income; that the remaining trustee (Mr. Warren) had suggested the Board of Visitors pass a resolution asking for the appointment of Mr. Endicott as a co-trustee with a bond of only $50,000.

The following resolution was adopted unanimously:

WHEREAS, Arthur W. Austin late of Milton in the County of Norfolk, State of Massachusetts, deceased, testate by his last will and testament, duly proved and allowed on the third day of September, 1884, in the Probate Court of Norfolk County, did therein give certain estate in trust for the use and benefit of his children, Mary Austin Carroll, now Mary A. McLaughlin, Florence Austin and Henry W. Austin, and for the use and benefit of the University of Virginia in reversion; that Francis B. Austin and James W. Austin were duly appointed trustees thereof, and Thomas P. Proctor was duly appointed to succeed said Francis B. Austin, and Bentley W. Warren was duly appointed to succeed said Thomas P. Proctor; that William Endicott, 3rd, was duly appointed to succeed said James W. Austin in said trust; that the said William Endicott, 3rd, has resigned before the objects of said Trust have been accomplished; that there is no adequate provision made in said will for supplying the vacancy caused by the resignation of said William Endicott, 3rd, and

WHEREAS, Irvin McD. Garfield, of Boston, has consented to act as a trustee of said estate, filling the vacancy caused by the resignation of William Endicott, 3rd, and

WHEREAS, Mary A. McLaughlin, beneficiary under said will, has petitioned the Honorable Judge of the Probate Court of the County of Norfolk for the appointment of said Irving McD. Garfield as a co-trustee with said Bentley W. Warren, now sole remaining trustee thereunder, and

WHEREAS, The individual bonds of the trustees heretofore required to be given have been only $50,000., and

WHEREAS, The Honorable Judge of the Probate Court of said County now desires that the succeeding trustee's bond be increased to $425,000., therefore be it

RESOLVED: BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, That we do join in the petition to the Honorable Judge of the Probate Court of Norfolk County for the appointment of Irvin McD. Garfield as co-trustee with Bentley W. Warren, now sole remaining trustee, and that no bond in excess of $50,000. be required of said Irvin McD. Garfield as Trustee of said estate, and

RESOLVED: FURTHER, That the Rector of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to sign the petition to said the Honorable the Judge of the Probate Court, in the County of Norfolk, State of Massachusetts.

The President presented a communication from the Bursar, calling attention to an expected deficit for the fiscal year, and asking for authority to make temporary arrangements with the banks to meet the needs of the University.

Pursuant with the report and request, the following resolution was adopted:

WHEREAS, The report of the Bursar made to the President, shows that there will be a temporary shortage of about $17,500. for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1918, and for which there may not be on hand funds temporarily to meet the requirements for said fiscal year, therefore be it.

RESOLVED: That the Bursar be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to borrow from the local banks from time to time and in such sums as may be necessary to meet the current needs of the University, and in anticipation of current income, not to exceed the sum of $25,000; and such notes as may be executed by him for said purpose shall be paid as promptly as may be out of income of the University available therefor, and he shall report to each and every subsequent meeting of this Board the total amount borrowed under this authority, and the amount then outstanding in the banks unpaid.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.
