<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1920) May 14, 1920

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 14, 1920

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## ELECTIONS PROMOTION

Pursuant to the call of the Rector, the Board met in special session on the above date with the following present: Rector Bryan, and Visitors Dillard, Duke, Oliver, Robertson, Scott, Walker and President Alderman.

The minutes of the meeting of April 21st not having been sent out to the members, were not passed upon.

The Rector announced the appointment of the following standing committees of the Board:

* **EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:** Duke, Hart, Hatton, Scott and the Rector
* **FINANCE COMMITTEE:** Walker, Scott and Oliver.
* **GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS COMMITTEE:** Hatton, Robertson, Dillard and Greever.

He also announced the following special Committee on Endowment Fund: Scott, Hart and the Rector.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following resolutions electing professors and promoting an instructor as members of the University faculty were adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Mr. Bruce Williams is hereby elected Acting Adjunct Professor of Political Science in the University of Virginia for the session of 1920-'21, to carry forward the work of Dr. Lindsay Rogers, who will be on leave of absence for that particular year, at a salary of $2500, incumbency for the year to begin with the opening of the session in September.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia That Dr. Carl Caskie Speidel is hereby elected Adjunct Professor of Anatomy in the University of Virginia, at a salary of $2000, incumbency to begin with the session of 1920'21.

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Mr. Ernest Linwood Lehman is hereby promoted from Instructor to Adjunct Professor of Latin and Romance Languages, at a salary of $1500 (out of the already appropriated budgets of these two departments), incumbency to begin with the session of 1920-'21.

The special committee consisting of Messrs. Robertson and Scott, appointed at the last meeting of the Board to pass upon the question of providing dormitory facilities for the prospective women students, reported that a copy of a proposed contract with Mrs. L. E. Kimbrough, for the exclusive use of her house for that purpose, had been received from the Bursar, which it was thought would meet the situation if amended so as to provide that: "In the event either at the beginning or at any time during the session it shall prove impracticable in the judgment of the University to use the said building as a dormitory for women students, the University shall have the right to fill the said rooms with men students acceptable to Mrs. Kimbrough, and when this shall be done the contract shall be regarded as terminated and annulled, and the University relieved from the guarantee therein contained." The foregoing amendment was adopted, and the Bursar directed to see that the contract was amended accordingly by the University's attorney, and the Rector was authorized to sign the same on behalf of the University.

In connection with the question of erecting a dormitory for men involving the use of the foundation built for the proposed club house situated on the athletic grounds, a communication was received from the General Athletic Association Board stating that the Board proposed to complete the erection of the club house in the near future, and therefore requested the Rector and Visitors to withdraw its proposition for the use of said foundation for a dormitory, and pursuant therewith the Board adopted the following:

RESOLVED, That the General Athletic Association be advised that the Rector and Visitors have agreed not to interfere with the privileges granted them in respect to the athletic grounds.

Dr. Lambeth, of the special committee on dormitory, stated that it would be possible to re-erect one of the old barracks in a convenient location on the grounds to be used as a temporary dormitory, which would accommodate eighty students, at a cost of about $6500. The matter was discussed at some length and disposed of in the following resolution unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That a committee consisting of the Rector and one other member of the Board, Dr. Alderman and Dr. Lambeth be appointed, with power to act, to pass upon the matter of erecting a temporary dormitory. The Rector appointed Mr. Duke from the Board on the said committee.

A special committee on rebuilding the old Chemical Laboratory to be used by the School of Biology reported favorably upon the bid of the Charlottesville Lumber Company to construct the same for the sum of $30,379.00, being the lowest bid received. The report of the committee was accepted and unanimously approved.

In connection with the construction of the proposed amphitheatre from the funds donated by Mr. Paul. G. McIntire for that purpose, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That the construction of a Greek amphitheatre be referred to a special committee consisting of the Rector, Mr. Duke, Dr. Alderman, Dr. Lambeth and Dr. Kimball with power to act.

In reference to the question of constructing a new heating unit, which was discussed at some length by Dr. Lambeth, Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, following the reading of a report on said matter by Mr. Willis, of the Mechanical Survey, the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, That a special committee consisting of the Rector and Mr. Scott be appointed to confer with Mr. Willis and Mr. Almirall to pass upon the question of the construction of the proposed unit of the heating plant.

Prof. C. G. Maphis, Dean of the Summer Quarter, appeared before the meeting in connection with the reduction made at the last meeting of the Board in the salaries proposed for the faculty of the summer quarter, and stated that to carry out the action of the Board in making the reduction, he would be precluded from securing a large number of desirable teachers and furthermore that the suggested salaries, in addition to being extremely conservative, were much less than those paid to teachers of similar rank in other summer quarters. Following a general discussion of the matter the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That the action of the Board at the last meeting reducing the proposed increases in summer quarter salaries to 12 1/2%, be reconsidered and rescinded, and that the figure for said salaries remain as set forth in the tentative budget.

Mr. McLane Tilton made an application for a location on the University's grounds on which to erect a fraternity house. The matter was referred to the Committee on Grounds and Buildings.

Prof. C. M. Sparrow requested the University to build an addition to the rooms now occupied by him on Monroe Hill. The Board decided that it was not expedient to grant his request.

The Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity, through Mr. C. H. H. Thomas, Chairman of the Alumni Committee in charge of the appointments, communicated to the Board its desire to offer to the University an annual scholarship, in both the winter and summer terms, said scholarship to be in the nature of heat, light, rent and janitor service of room No. 31 West Range, in which the fraternity was organized, and that the formal offer would be made by the Grand Princeps at an early date, but that the offer was being made at this time in order, that, if accepted, it may become operative for the summer term. The offer was accepted and the Secretary directed to communicate the same to the Committee Chairman.

On motion the meeting then adjourned.
