<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1925) November 14, 1925

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 14, 1925

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### COLLEGE AND GRADUATE:

**Chemistry:**

* C. W. Griffin - Teaching Fellow.
* E. F. Hubbard - Assistant.
* G. W. Struthers - Stock-keeper.

**Economics:**

* I. T. Musser - Instructor.
* M. Hillman - Assistant.

**English:**

* A. B. Shepperson - Instructor.
* Ira S. Franck - Assistant.
* Malcolm McLeod - Assistent.

**Geology:**

* R. P. Meacham - Instructor.

**Mathematics:**

* F. A. Wells - Instructor.
* Charles R. Larkin - Instructor.
* C. N. Hulvey - Instructor.
* Melvin W. Aylor - Assistant.
* G. T. Gwathmey, Jr. - Assistant.
* Samuel T. Martin, Jr. - Assistant.
* R. S. Leftwich - Assistant.
* Henry Savage, Jr. - Assistant.
* R. L. Echols - Assistant.
* C. L. Gleaves - Assistant.

**Philosophy:**

* T. C. Scott - Instructor.

**Physics:**

* W. M. L. Rogers - Assistant.
* C. B. Reed - Assistant.
* A. H. Scheck - Assistant.
* J. S. Browne - Assistant.
* R. A. Smith - Assistant.

**Romanic Languages:**

* Peyton N. Rhodes - Instructor.
* W. W. Deupree - Instructor.
* Charles H. Ross - Assistant.
* Francisco Carral - Assistant.

### MEDICINE:

**Histology:**

* J. W. Jervey - Assistant.
* Loren P. Guy - Assistant.

**Internal Medicine:**

* J. Edwin Wood, Jr., M. D. - Instructor.
* R. D. Kimbrough, M.D. - Instructor.

### ENGINEERING:

* E. T. Holland - Assistant.
* A. H. Dunlop - Assistant.
* O. S. Petrescu - Assistant.
* A. H. Scheck - Assistant.
* A. W. Holt - Assistant.

### PHYSICAL TRAINING:

* Lionel Levy - Instructor in Swimming.

### SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS:

* Valentine Birely Sch.
* Edgar English
* Thomas P. Bryan Memorial Sch.
* E. Ruffin Jones, Jr.
* Henry C. Cabell Sch.
* George A. Schumacker.
* George Cameron Memorial Sch.
* A. G. Gilliam.
* Richard Eppes Memorial Sch.
* James V. D. Eppes
* William C. Folkes Schs.
* R. W. Church.
* Paul Farmer.
* John W. Evans.
* John R. Myers.
* Elizabeth B. Garrett Sch.
* Lois C. K. Carwile.
* William A. Herndon Schs.
* O. H. Fulcher.
* A. D. J. Hart.
* Wm. E. Holmes Sch.
* J. M. B. Lewis, Jr.
* Merrick-Sampson Sch.
* A. W. Holt.
* Samuel Miller Schs.
* C. B. Reed.
* C. E. Diggs.
* Robert Hancock Wood (Aviator) Sch.
* Arthur Thompson.
* Law Review Sch.
* W. L. Brown.
* Virginia Medical Students Schs.
* Wm. R. Jordan.
* Joel W. Baker.
* Phelps-Stokes Fellowship - C. Louis Knight.

To the Chamber of Commerce of the City of Charlottesville

* $250 for additional instructor in Spanish.
* $200 for Miss Vergie Leggett, Research Fellow in Sociology.

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 9 a.m., with the following members present: the Rector, C. Harding Walker, and Visitors, Hall, Hart, Hull, McIntire, Rinehart, Williams and Hatcher.

The Secretary announced the appointment by the Governor, on July 22, 1925, of Dr. Orie Latham Hatcher of Richmond to fill the unexpired term of Miss McVea, resigned, and that Miss Hatcher had duly qualified as a Visitor.

The minutes of the previous meeting having been copied and sent to the Visitors, were approved.

The President announced that the attendance for the session 1925-26, as of this date, to be 2024 in all departments.

He announced the following gifts and bequests for which he was authorized to prepare the usual resolution of thanks on the part of the Board:

* Bequest of $10,000, in the will of Mrs. Lelia S. Bennett, of Albemarle County, $5,000, to be added to the Hospital Fund, and $5,000 to the Student Loan Fund.
* Addition to the B. W. Green Estate as remainder-man under his will of a trust fund established for Dorothy Elizabeth Young, $1,315.00.
* From Mr. James R. McKeldin, young alumnus of the University $1,000, the interest on which sum is to be used for the library of the Department of Philosophy.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following promotions in, and additions to, the staff were made in motions duly made and seconded and unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That Dr. Arthur August Pega be promoted from Acting Assistant Professor of Geology to Assistant Professor of Geology, appointment to begin with the session 1925-26.

RESOLVED, That the Rector and Visitors approve of the action of the President of the University taken during the summer quarter in making the following appointments:

* Mr. Luther C. Gilbert, Assistant Professor of Education, and Supervisor of Instruction in the Charlottesville High School, at a salary of $1,500.
* Dr. Fletcher D. Woodward, Assistant Professor of Diseases of the Ear, Nose and Throat, at a salary of $312.

### Instructors, Assistants, Fellows and Scholars:

Upon motion, duly made and seconded, the following appropriations for 1925-26 were made:

The sum of $1,500 to be divided, $500 each, to Professors Pott, Balz and Ferguson, for carrying forward the work in the School of Philosophy during the absence of Dr. Lefevre.

Upon the recommendation of the President, Dr. James M. Page was unanimously nominated for re-election on the State Board of Education, and the Secretary directed to give notice of this action to the Secretary of the Senate.

A letter from G. B. Young, Joint Health Officer of the City, County, and University, concerning sewage condition on Rugby Road in connection with a group of fraternity houses, was read by the President and the matter discussed, in which discussion the City Attorney, who had looked into the matter, joined, and made the following statement:

The Joint Health Board of the City, County and University, has requested that a new method of sewage disposal be installed for the Chi Phi, Delta Tau Delta, Kappa Sigma and Zeta Psi Fraternity Houses on Rugby Road. At present the raw sewage from these four fraternity houses is being turned into the creek which runs through the Estate of the late Eugene Massie. The Health Board desires this method of disposal discontinued as it constitutes a menace to health and requests that a new sewer be installed connecting these houses with the City sewers.

The diagram showing the line of the proposed new sewer and the estimate showing that the maximum cost thereof will not exceed $2400.00, was presented to the Board, said diagram and estimate having been prepared in the office of the City Engineer for the City of Charlottesville, and the estimate being based upon figures prepared in the City Engineer's Office, at which the City of Charlottesville is willing to undertake the installation of said sewer.

The matter was disposed of in the following resolution adopted:

RESOLVED, That the resolution presented by Mr. Perkins be adopted, with the amendment that Mr. Perkins and the Bursar be authorized to make an arrangement with the respective fraternities for the repayment of the sum in equal installments for over a period of not over six years. Provided further, that the resolution and further arrangement for the sewer be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds to confer with Dr. Young in connection with any future arrangement for the Memorial Gymnasium.

RESOLVED, That the City of Charlottesville be requested to install said sewer, payment therefor to be made to the City by E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, the amount so paid to be charged to the four fraternities above named, each Fraternity being required to pay to the Bursar one-fourth thereof, Mr. Perkins, Attorney for this Board, being instructed to co-operate with the Bursar in taking this matter of payment up with the Fraternities, and in seeing that said payments are secured to be made as promptly as the condition of the respective Fraternities may permit.

A letter was read from McLane Tilton, Secretary of the Alumni Association, asking that the Association be allowed to rent the room in the Entrance Building, now occupied by the Post Office, when vacated, as quarters for the Alumni Office. The matter was disposed of in the following motion adopted:

RESOLVED, That the room in the Entrance Building, now about to be vacated by the U. S. Post Office, be rented to the Alumni Association, when vacated, at the sum of $500 per year, and the formal lease contain a clause requiring a notice of four months on the part of either party to vacate the premises.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following concerning the Barksdale Memorial, on motion, was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors, That the sum of $30,000, contributed to the Centennial Endowment Fund by Mrs. H. M. Barksdale and the Delaware Alumni Association, which fund is held by the Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund, be set up on the books of the University as follows:

Fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) to establish a MEMORIAL SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY in the Department of Engineering, to be known as the HAMILTON BARKSDALE MEMORIAL LIBRARY, with an annual income of $700, and

Fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) to establish a MEMORIAL SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY in the Department of Chemistry, to be known as the HAMILTON BARKSDALE MEMORIAL SCIENTIFIC LIBRARY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY, with an annual income of $700.

RESOLVED, further, That the heads of these departments, Dean John Lloyd Newcomb of the Department of Engineering, and Dr. Robert Norton Pease of the Department of Chemistry, be notified of this action with the request that they take such steps as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of these funds, and that out of the income appropriated above a sum be taken sufficient to erect tablets in said departments commemorating the establishment of this memorial.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following with respect to the increase in University Fee and Tuition charges, was adopted:

RESOLVED, By the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia,

That beginning with the session of 1926-27, the University fee and tuition charges shall be as follows:

* The University fee for Virginia students in the College, Graduate, Education and Engineering Departments shall be $50 per session.
* The tuition for Virginia students in Law and Medicine shall be $170 per session, and that the tuition for students in Medicine shall be uniform for the four year course.
* The tuition for non-Virginia students in the College, Graduate, Law and Medicine shall be $190 per session.

The following concerning the endorsement of stock of the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Company for deposit in reorganization proceedings was, on motion, adopted:

RESOLVED, BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, That the endorsement by E. I. Carruthers, Bursar of the University of Virginia, on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, of certificate # F-1046 for four shares of the preferred stock of the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Company, registered in the name of

"THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, ACCOUNT D'ARCY PAUL LIBRARY FUND," and certificate # F-1047 for six shares of the preferred stock of the Virginia Carolina Chemical Company, registered in the name of

"THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, (SPECIAL ACCOUNT OF THE LINDEN KENT MEMORIAL CHAIR OF ENGLISH LITERATURE)", for deposit with the Equitable Trust Company of New York, in accordance with the Plan and Agreement of Re-organization Dated August 10, 1925, be and the same are hereby approved.

The President discussed with the Board the probability of securing a grant of $700,000 from the General Education Board, conditioned upon the raising of the total of $1,400,000 for the Medical Department; whereupon the following motion, duly made and seconded, was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the efforts of President Alderman to secure a grant of $700,000 from the General Education Board, conditioned upon the raising of a total sum of $1,400,000, including the grant from the Board, for the purpose of erecting suitable structures for the housing of the Medical Sciences in the Department of Medicine in the University of Virginia, be and same are hereby heartily approved, and the President is authorized by this Board to present this request to the General Education Board, and the Rector and Visitors wish to express the hope that the request will be granted, and to pledge themselves to the carrying out of the purpose of the grant.

During the session, Mr. Robert Tunstall, a representative of the Alumni Board, upon being granted the privilege of the floor stated that he had been appointed by his Board to read a letter expressing the Board's appreciation of Dr. Alderman's declination of the Chancellorship of the University of Georgia. The letter was thereupon read and the President and members expressed their very great appreciation of the gracious act of the Alumni Board, and order that it be spread upon the minutes.

The announcement that you had declined the offer of the Chancellorship of the University of Georgia, because of a resolve to devote your future to the service of the University of Virginia, came to her alumni as a message of high courage and imperishable faith. The twenty-one years during which you have directed the policies and energized the activities of our Alma Mater have been years of stirring achievement. Her gain in endowments, in student attendance, in academic authority, in scientific equipment, in teaching power, in public usefulness and in popular esteem have been magnificent and in large measure your personal work. They have won for you the sympathy, support, the admiration, the confidence and the loyalty of all our alumni. Yet their allegiance has still a deeper root. You came to this University in a momentous hour. You were our first president and the great mass of our then graduates knew the virtues of the older regime and were unconscious of the ineradicable infirmities which lay hidden beneath them. In a few loyal and devoted spirits a certain fear awoke for the noble tradition of the school, for its high standards, for its law of liberty both in learning and in teaching, for the gracious fraternity of intramural life. It has been your high mission to dispel such fears, to lift all that was worthy in the spirit and tradition of the University of Virginia to a higher plane of authority and power, and by the depth of your understanding and the comprehension of your sympathy to beget for her a future which shall be the rich inheritor of her past. In you she has found both a bond of peace and the righteousness of her academic life.

That under your continued guidance she will go forward in the noble faith of her father and founder is our confidence and our trust. May the years of your government be long and happy, crowned with usefulness and distinction, sweetened by the affection of your faculty and your students, alumni and of all Virginians.

Mr. Perkins presented to the Board a letter from Mr. William W. Johnson, Executor of Wills Johnson, deceased, requesting that the securities heretofore delivered, and the check for $5,000, which we have received, be accepted by the Board in full discharge of the bequest of $50,000 contained in the will of said Wills Johnson. After some discussion of the matter it was felt that in the absence of Mr. Scott, Chairman of the Finance Committee, this position of the question should be deferred until he could be present, and the matter went over to the next meeting.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.
