<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1926) April 27, 1926

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 27, 1926

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## RECAPITULATION OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURES 1925-26; 1926-27ESTIMATED RECEIPTS 1926-27.

### Winter session to April 15, 1926

| Description                                    | Amount  |
|------------------------------------------------|---------|
| Total Summer Quarter 1925 (net)               | 2077    |
| Total Nurses Training School                    | 2212    |
| Total Extension Courses (1925)                 | 101     |
| **Total**                                      | 4601    |

To increase the salary of the Secretary to the Dean of the Graduate Department from $50 to $60 a month from December 1st to July 1st, 1926

$70.00

For the Histological Laboratory to provide four additional microscopes and ten chairs made necessary by increase in the first year medical class

$503.61

To reimburse Professors C. M. Sparrow and T. R. Snavely for cost of heating apparatus for their residences

$1,950.85

### INCOME ESTIMATES

| Description                                    | 1925-26 | 1926-27 | Increase. | Decrease. |
|------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|
| I. Students' Fees and Rents                    | 273,845 | 336,750 | 62,905    |           |
| II. Endowments - Unrestricted                   | 91,681  | 101,433 | 9,752     |           |
| Endowments - Restricted                         | 60,462  | 61,533  | 1,071     |           |
| III. Gifts to Income                           | 12,825  | 18,825  | 6,000     |           |
| IV. State appropriation for general purposes    | 297,395 | 358,287 | 60,892    |           |
| V. Summer Quarter                               | 49,600  | 50,300  | 700       |           |
| VI. Miscellaneous                               | 22,290  | 22,840  | 550       |           |
| VII. Endowments - Restricted                    | 16,756  | 17,247  | 491       |           |
| VIII. Gifts for Restricted pps.                 | 4,000   | 4,000   |           |           |
| IX. Carnegie Foundation                         | 17,925  | 17,925  |           |           |
| X. State Appro., spec. pps.                    | 53,000  | 13,000  | 40,000    |           |
| XI. Hospital Receipts                           | 151,560 | 162,635 | 11,075    |           |
| XII. Cafeteria                                  | 56,500  | 57,500  | 1,000     |           |
| XIII. Lectures and Concerts                     | 7,285   | 7,285   |           |           |
| XIV. Students' Loan notes and Interest          | 8,600   | 8,600   |           |           |
| **Total**                                      | $1,123,724 | 1,238,160 | 114,436 |           |

### EXPENDITURES ESTIMATES

| Description                                    | 1925-26 | 1926-27 | Increase. | Decrease. |
|------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|-----------|-----------|
| I. Administration                               | 54,315  | 59,730  | 5,415     |           |
| II. College & Graduate                          | 263,950 | 282,435 | 18,485    |           |
| III. Medicine                                   | 94,750  | 109,750 | 15,000    |           |
| IV. Engineering                                 | 35,250  | 39,375  | 4,125     |           |
| V. Education                                    | 16,960  | 18,175  | 1,215     |           |
| VI. Law                                        | 37,255  | 38,360  | 1,105     |           |
| VII. Physical Training                          | 11,847  | 12,247  | 400       |           |
| VIII. Library                                   | 16,425  | 21,160  | 4,735     |           |
| IX. Extension                                   | 27,000  | 35,925  | 8,928     |           |
| X. Hospital                                     | 192,580 | 219,000 | 26,420    |           |
| XI. Buildings & Grounds                         | 68,305  | 77,233  | 8,928     |           |
| XII. Power Plant                                | 33,757  | 34,457  | 700       |           |
| XIII. Interest & Sinking Fund                   | 17,695  | 18,095  | 400       |           |
| XIV. Publicity & Publications                   | 8,325   | 8,925   | 600       |           |
| XV. Pensions                                    | 20,175  | 20,175  |           |           |
| XVI. Scholarships                               | 23,338  | 24,477  | 1,139     |           |
| XVII. Loans to Students                         | 11,600  | 11,600  |           |           |
| XVIII. Lectures & Concerts                      | 11,152  | 11,645  | 493       |           |
| XIX. Cafeteria                                  | 56,500  | 57,500  | 1,000     |           |
| XX. Summer Quarter                              | 77,517  | 84,500  | 6,983     |           |
| XXI. Operation Laundry                          | 13,140  | 15,965  | 2,825     |           |
| XXII. Reserves                                  | 37,431  | 37,431  |           |           |
| **Total**                                      | $1,091,836 | 1,238,160 | 146,324 |           |

### General maintenance

1,500

### Chief Bureau of Self-Help

200

$1,700

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 9:30 a.m. with the following members present: B. F. Buchanan, M. Carter Hall, Harris Hart, D. D. Hull, Paul G. McIntire, Mrs. B. B. Munford, Hollis Rinehart, Lewis C. Williams and C. Harding Walker, Messrs. Buchanan, McIntire, Williams and Walker, and Mrs. Munford having been appointed by the Governor for the term beginning March 1st, 1926, presented qualifications for the office of Visitor of the University.

Mr. C. Harding Walker, whose term as Rector expired on February 28th, 1926, advised the Board that the office was now vacant, whereupon he was unanimously elected Rector for the ensuing term.

The President announced the attendance for the year 1925-26 as follows:

The President announced the following bequests and gifts, and was authorized to prepare resolutions of thanks on behalf of the Board:

Bequest of Mr. Graham F. Blandy, of New York City and White Post, Virginia, of a part of his farm in Clarke County, on the condition that it be called "The Blandy Experimental Farm" and be run to teach boys farming in the various branches, including fruit raising.

Bequests of Mr. John A Muir, formerly of Alexandria, Virginia, which will amount to approximately sixty thousand dollars.

From Mr. Samuel H. Purcell, of Greenwood, Virginia, $5,000 to the University Hospital for the purpose of endowing a memorial bed.

From Mr. A. W. Erickson, of New York City, $1,000 for the purchase of books for the Library of the Department of Education.

From Mr. William H. White, Jr., $1,000 to be added to the White Foundation, the same being a gift from the previous donors. (Mr. White asks particularly that no acknowledgement of any character or notice of any sort in the newspapers or otherwise be made.)

From Mr. Arthur Curtiss James $500.00 for the purchase of books on the whole problem of the negro in America.

From the alumni of the "Seven Society" $350.00, for the establishment of a scholarship in the Medical Department to be known as the "SEVEN SOCIETY ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP".

From the Albemarle Chapter of the D. A. R., $68.00, toward the cost of a new motor for the University chapel organ.

From Mr. William Gordon McCabe and Mr. E. R. Warner McCabe the library of Colonel William Gordon McCabe in memory of their father.

From Professor Gaetano Lanza, of Philadelphia, seven boxes of books for the University library.

From Dr. Paul B. Barringer ten or more boxes of books consisting of his medical library.

From Mr. Marion Brawley, of Greenville, S. C., 110 volumes for the Law School of the University.

From Hon. John Bassett Moore, since June 1925, 47 volumes for the Law Library.

From Mrs. Nelson Williams, of Bedford Hills, N. Y., portrait, by Healy, of Leander McCormick.

In the matter of the Blandy bequest of a farm in Clarke County, Virginia, on motion a committee consisting of Messrs. Rinehart and Hart of the Board, to associate with themselves the President and Professor Ivey F. Lewis, was appointed to investigate the property and make recommendation to the Board at its June meeting in the matter.

The President announced the resignations from the faculty of Dr. Albert W. Giles and Professor Joseph Hudnut, and the following actions were taken by the Board.

**RESOLVED**, That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept the resignation of Dr. Albert W. Giles, Professor of Geology. Dr. Giles has carried forward his work with ability and energy at this University, and the Rector and Visitors wish him continued success in his new field.

**RESOLVED**, That the Rector and Visitors of the University accept with regret the resignation of Mr. Joseph Hudnut, Professor Art and Architecture. Mr. Hudnut has carried forward his work at this University with devotion and skill, and the Rector and Visitors wish him continued success in his new field.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following appointments, elections, promotions, and leave of absence in the teaching staff were ratified as shown below in the respective cases:

Appointment of Dr. Chester K. Wentworth as Acting Associate Professor of Geology in this University for a period from January 1st to June 15th, 1926, at a salary of $300.00 per month.

Miss Cordelia Cox as Research Assistant in Sociology for the session of 1925-26.

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Joseph K. Roberts be and is hereby elected Professor of Geology, at a salary of $3,000, incumbency to begin with the session of 1926-27.

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Ben-Zion Linfield be and is hereby elected Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a salary of $2.500, incumbency to begin with the session of 1926-27.

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That Dr. Harry Ladd be and is hereby elected Assistant Professor of Geology, at a salary of $2,400, incumbency to begin with the session of 1926-27.

Mr. George B. Zehmer, Director of Extension, as an Associate Professor in the Department of Education.

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, That the following promotions in the faculty be made to take effect with the session of 1926-27:

* Gardner Lloyd Carter, M. S., Ph. D., Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry.
* James Cook Bardin, M. D., Associate Professor to Professor of Romance Language.
* Albert Julius Barlow, B. A., Associate Professor to Professor of Commerce and Business Administration.
* Atcheson Laughlin Hench, M. A., Ph. D., Associate Professor to Professor of English Literature.
* Elbert Alvis Kincaid. M. A., Ph. D., Associate Professor to Professor of Commerce and Business Administration.
* Dumas Malone, M. A., Ph. D., Associate Professor to Professor of History.
* Robert Kent Gooch, M. A., Ph. D., Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science.
* William Edward Knight, M. E., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages.
* Linwood Lehman, M. A., Ph. D., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Latin.
* James Edward Kindred, Ph. D., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Histology and Embryology.
* Arthur Francis Macconochie, B. Sc. (Eng.) Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
* Vincent William Archer, B. S., M. D., Instructor to Assistant Professor of Roentgenology.
* Henry Beardon Mulholland, M. D., Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine.
* James Edwin Wood, Jr., M. D., Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine.

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors, That a leave of absence, without salary, be granted to Professor Abraham Berglund, of the Department of Commerce and Business Administration, for the period of one year, for work in the Institute of Economics in the City of Washington.

**RESOLVED**, further, That Mr. L. R. Edminister, of the Institute of Economics of Washington, be and is hereby elected Acting Associate Professor of Commerce and Business Administration in the University of Virginia, for the session of 1926-27, at a salary of $3,750, in consideration of the leave of absence granted to Professor Berglund.

The following special appropriations were approved:

The President announced a gift of $700,000 from the General Education Board towards the erection of new medical buildings, and he was authorized to express the thanks of the Rector and Visitors for the very generous gift, and he was further authorized in filling up the tentative contract covering the said gift, to put in a term of one year in which to raise the remainder of the needed sum of $1,400,000.

Applications for lease of land on which to build were received from the following fraternities and referred to the Buildings and Grounds committee for report at the June meeting:

* Sigma Nu;
* Beta Theta Pi;
* Delta Sigma Phi;
* Sigma Chi;
* Alpha Chi Rho;
* Phi Chi;
* Phi Kappa Psi.

Application of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity for the exclusive use of room # 46 East Lawn as a dormitory for a member of the said fraternity, or for the approval of the occupant under certain conditions, with right to furnish the same, was disposed of in the following motion, which was adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That room 46 East Lawn is hereby assigned to the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, beginning with the session of 1926-27, upon the following conditions:

I. The said fraternity is permitted to make such decorations at its own expense as may be approved by the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, and to provide such furniture as may be necessary for the occupant to use it as a dormitory. Permission is granted for the naming of the occupants, for both the winter session and the summer quarter, from time to time by the Supreme Executive Committee of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity on nomination by,

(a) The Zeta Chapter of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity located at the University of Virginia,

(b) An alumnus member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity of the faculty of the University of Virginia, or,

(c) The Bursar of the University of Virginia. The occupant thus named shall in all events be satisfactory to the President and Bursar of the University of Virginia.

II. In the event of a vacancy in the room without a nomination in hand from the Supreme Executive Committee, the Bursar shall immediately request such nomination from the Supreme Executive Committee of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and shall notify the Grand Master of Zeta Chapter and members of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity holding faculty appointments at the University of Virginia, requesting them to nominate to the Supreme Executive Committee at the office of the Worthy Grand Scribe.

III. 46 East Lawn, during the term of this scholarship, shall be open to inspection to all visiting Kappa Sigmas.

IV. The Kappa Sigma Fraternity, in consideration of this permit, agrees to pay to the University of Virginia, annually, such sums as may be the rental value of the said room for both the winter session and the summer quarter. The annual rental of the said room on the present rate of charges is $115.00.

V. This contract shall continue in force until cancelled by a notice in writing six months in advance by either the Supreme Executive Committee of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, or the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, it being, however, the present intention of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity to continue this contract in force indefinitely.

Application of the Virginia-Western Power Company for a permit to erect a pavilion on the property of the University at the intersection of Main Street and Jefferson Park Avenue was granted in the following motion, unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That permission be and is hereby granted to the Virginia-Western Power Company to erect a pavilion ten feet in diameter and twelve feet in height, on the grounds of the University of Virginia, at the intersection of Main Street and Jefferson Park Avenue, on the south side of Main Street. The architecture of the pavilion is to be in keeping with that of the University of Virginia, and it shall be maintained and kept in repair by the Virginia-Western Power Company at its own expense, and the grounds immediately adjacent thereto are to be kept free from trash and unsightly articles. The pavilion is to be removed in ten days upon receipt of an order from the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. Location of the pavilion to be arranged with the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.

The President announced that Dr. William E. Hopkins of New York, desired to donate to the University of Virginia $40,000 upon condition that the University pay him an annual rate of interest thereon during his life time. The matter was disposed of in the following motion, duly made and seconded, and adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That the offer of Dr. William E. Hopkins of New York, of a gift to the University of Virginia of $40,000 in cash, or securities of the market value of $40,000, upon condition that the Not Consummated University of Virginia pay to Dr. Hopkins four percent per annum on said sum for his life, be accepted, the only obligation on the part of the University being to pay four percent per annum on said sum for the life of Dr. Hopkins.

Not Consummated

**RESOLVED**, further, That the attorney for the University be requested to prepare a contract embodying this agreement with Dr. Hopkins for approval of the Board of Visitors at the next meeting, and that the President thank Dr. Hopkins for his generosity to the University.

The question of entering into a contract with the Virginia-Western Power Company for electric current for a period of twelve months, or more, was referred to a special committee consisting of Messrs. Rinehart and McIntire, with power to act.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, attorney for the University sent a communication to the President advising him of his removal to Miami, Florida, but retaining a connection with the Law firm of Perkins, McNutt, Battle and Rinehart, here, which firm would look after the University's legal requirements in the future if it is desired. The Board expressed itself as being agreeable to the suggested arrangement.

The President presented the budget for the session 1926-27, which, after examination section by section, was adopted in the following resolution:

**RESOLVED**, That the budget for 1926-27 as presented by the President be and is hereby adopted, and the increases in salaries therein recommended coming within the provision of the Garrett Act be presented to the Governor for his approval, prior to the same becoming effective.

\[Financial Budget for 1925-26;1926-27 follows on Page 117]

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.
