<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1927) November 11, 1927

## Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 11, 1927

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### Gifts: Medical School and Alterations to Power House. Kitchen and Dining Room Building. Laundry Building. Royster Building. Post Office Building.

From American Clan Gregor, to establish a scholarship in the Department of Medicine, to be known as "The Dr. Edward May Magruder Scholarship in Medicine"

| Amount     | Donor                                                                                         |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| $1,200.00  | From Mrs. Louis Bennett, for $250.00 to establish, for the session of 1927-28, a special scholarship in the Law School, to be known as "The Lieutenant Louis Bennett, Jr. Scholarship" |
| $250.00    | From Mrs. Frederick A. Packard, Treasurer, Colonial Dames of America, to be added to the principal fund of the Kate Cabell Cox Scholarship Fund |
| $100.00    | From Mr. M. T. Cooke, Jr., loan of a bronze group, probably by Barye.                       |

### Art and Architecture:

| Name                    | Position       |
|-------------------------|----------------|
| L. B. Anderson          | Instructor     |
| F. H. Allen             | Assistant      |
| Piet Van de Kamp        | Instructor     |
| Alexander Vyssotsky     | Instructor     |
| Lewis W. McIlhany      | Assistant      |
| R. F. Selden            | Assistant      |
| H. H. Schockey          | Assistant      |
| W. A. McClain, Jr.     | Assistant      |
| L. K. Johnson           | Assistant      |
| B. F. Hepler            | Assistant      |
| J. W. Rawles            | Assistant      |
| E. D. Brooke            | Assistant      |
| E. S. Abernathy         | Assistant      |
| Charles L. Ayres        | Assistant      |
| John E. Slaughter       | Assistant      |
| George G. Leckie       | Assistant      |
| F. A. Wells             | Instructor     |
| C. R. Larkin            | Instructor     |
| C. N. Hulvey            | Instructor     |
| C. D. Harmon            | Assistant      |
| E. C. Stevenson         | Assistant      |
| C. L. Ayres             | Assistant      |
| J. Van de Eppes         | Assistant      |
| Irving Lindsey          | Assistant      |
| Robert L. Echols       | Assistant      |
| A. Pharo Gagge          | Assistant      |
| G. M. Armistead         | Assistant      |
| H. M. Roth              | Assistant      |
| J. B. Saunders          | Assistant      |
| J. G. Browne            | Assistant      |
| E. C. Stevenson         | Assistant      |
| M. S. Knowlton         | Instructor     |
| Fernando Martinez        | Instructor     |
| E. B. Ferris           | Assistant      |
| J. P. King              | Assistant      |
| Wm. H. Roper            | Assistant      |
| Leslie L. Larson        | Instructor     |
| Cuthbert Tunstall       | Instructor     |
| Oscar E. Swineford      | Instructor     |
| Rees Morgan             | Instructor     |
| W. J. Rollins           | Instructor     |
| W. W. Koontz            | Instructor     |
| H. D. Forsyth           | Assistant      |
| Arthur C. Thompson      | Assistant      |
| Henry G. Acker          | Instructor     |
| R. Claude Graham        | Instructor     |
| Mrs. Mary H. Cassell    | Instructor     |
| C. N. Hulvey            | Graduate Assistant |
| P. P. Burks            | Assistant      |
| G. K. Evans            | Assistant      |
| Julian Harris           | Assistant      |
| L. T. Louthan          | Assistant      |
| J. L. Walker            | Assistant      |
| Blandy Experimental Farm Fellowship | T. W. Whitaker |
| Louis Bennet Scholarship | Oscar J. Andre |
| Lt. Louis Bennett, Jr., Scholarship | F. J. Daniels |
| Valentine Birely Scholarship | Edgar English |
| J. Thompson Brown Scholarship | Charles R. Smith |
| T. P. Bryan Memorial Scholarship | N. B. Orrick |
| George Cameron Scholarship | W. A. Irvine |
| Isaac Carey Scholarship | A. Pharo Gagge |
| Isaac Carey Scholarship | R. B. Grinnan |
| Richard Eppes Memorial Scholarship | J. V. D. Eppes |
| William C. Folkes Scholarship | R. W. Church |
| William C. Folkes Scholarship | John R. Myers |
| William C. Folkes Scholarship | John W. Evans |
| William C. Folkes Scholarship | Harry R. McCoy |
| Elizabeth B. Garrett Fellowship | S. M. Byrd |
| D. J. Hennessey Scholarship | Dan F. Harrington |
| Wm. A. Herndon Scholarship | J. E. Amiss |
| Wm. A. Herndon Scholarship | J. E. West |
| Isabella Merrick-Sampson Scholarship | C. E. McMurdo |
| Samuel Miller Scholarship | Wesley Fry |
| Bartlett Roper            | R. W. Plummer |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | R. R. Beasley |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | H. F. Butt, III |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | R. R. Claiborne, Jr. |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | B. B. C. Lile |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | Chas. W. F. Smith |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | Walter W. Clem |
| James H. Skinner Scholarship | Beverly T. White |
| Wm. Wyllie              | Seven Society Alumni Medical Scholarship |
| T. L. Watson, Jr.      | R. H. Whitehead Scholarship |
| J. P. Baker, Jr.       | R. H. Whitehead Scholarship |
| J. Alfred Calhoun, Jr. | Robert Hancock Wood, Aviator, Scholarship |
| Martin Mustard          | Daniel Harmon Scholarship |
| T. Franklin Daniel      | Law Review Scholarship |
| W. P. Sandridge, Jr.    | Virginia Medical Scholarships |
| W. R. Jordan           | Virginia Medical Scholarships |
| J. W. Baker             | General Construction. |

### Contract Report

| Type of Contract                   | Contractor                                                          | Amount           |
|------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| General Construction                | Southern Ferro Concrete Company, Atlanta, Georgia                   | $589,558.00      |
| Plumbing                            | H. E. Crook Company, Inc., # 28 Light Street, Baltimore, Md.       | $77,585.00       |
| Heating and Ventilating and Refrigerating Apparatus | Johnson-Longworth Heating Company, # 416 East Main Street, Richmond, Va. | $70,300.00       |
| Electrical Equipment                | Richardson-Wayland Electrical Corporation, # 106-08 Church Avenue, S. W., Roanoke, Va. | $86,934.00       |
| General Contract                   | W. P. Thurston Company, Richmond, Va.                               | $83,269.50       |

**Payments on account to November 5**

| Description | Amount     |
|-------------|------------|
| Payments on account to November 5 | $43,288.80 |
| Lump sum contract, including orders #1 to #4 inclusive (Plumbing, W. L. Lacy, Charlottesville, Va.) | $16,353.70 |
| Lump sum contract and order #1 (Electrical Equipment, J. B. Nuss Electrical Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $4,400.00 |
| Lump sum contract and orders #1 and #2 (General Contract, Charlottesville Lumber Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $10,086.85 |
| Payments on account to November 6 (Electrical Work, Sensibaugh-Ritchie Electric Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $1,005.50 |
| Payments to November 6 (Charlottesville Lumber Company, Charlottesville Va.) | $3,325.00 |
| Payments on account to November 5 (Plumbing, W. L. Lacy, Charlottesville, Va.) | $3,481.00 |
| Payments on account to November 5 (Electrical Equipment, J. B. Nuss Electrical Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $787.44 |
| Total Contracts Awarded | $981,605.95 |

**Heating Plant, approximately,**

| Amount               |
|----------------------|
| $85,000.00          |
| $1,066,605.95       |

A called meeting of the Board was held on the above date at 8 o'clock P. M., being continued at 9:30 A. M. November 12th.

There were present Visitors Buchanan, Hall, Hart, Hull, McIntire, Munford, Rinehart, Williams, and the Rector, C. H. Walker, and President Alderman.

The minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and sent to the members were approved.

The President made the following announcements:

Attendance to date for the present session, 2135, and for the year, including Summer Quarter, Extension, and Nurses' Training School, 5573.

The President was authorized to prepare the usual resolution of thanks for the above donors.

The resignation of Mr. Luther C. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Education and Director of Teacher Training at the close of the session 1926-27 was accepted.

On motion duly made and seconded the following was adopted:

**RESOLVED,** That the Rector and Visitors approve of the action of the President of the University, taken during the Summer Quarter, in making the following appointments:

* Mr. Harry Clemons, Librarian, at a salary of $4,800.00.
* Dr. Richard H. Meade, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, at a salary of $4,000.00.
* Dr. Charles Bruce Morton, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, at a salary of $4,000.00.
* Mr. Eustace E. Windes, Assistant Professor of Secondary Education, at a salary of $1,800.00.
* Mrs. Mary Jeffcott Hamblin, Acting Adviser to Women, at a salary of $1,200.00.

The following Instructors, Assistant, Scholarship and Fellowship holders:

The following appropriations were made:

**RESOLVED,** That the sum of $2,174.38 be and is hereby appropriated to pay off the remainder of the issue of 6 bonds issued in 1896, which were refunded in 1906 for 40 years at 4, the proceeds of which were not sufficient to take up the retired issue by the said sum.

**RESOLVED,** That an appropriation of $500.00 be made for keeping the library open from 4:30 to 7:30 P. M.

In the matter of the will of Dr. Walter M. Seward:

It was stated to the Rector and Visitors that, through a Committee, consisting of Mr. Chapin Jones, Mr. J. L. Newcomb, and Mr. W. Allen Perkins, Dr. Walter M. Seward, an Alumnus of the University, who now resides in Brunswick County, Virginia, has recently executed a will whereby he gives to the University of Virginia, for the use of its School of Forestry, some one thousand acres of timber land in Brunswick County, and a valuable personal estate.

It was thereupon

**Resolved,** That this Board deeply appreciates Dr. Seward's generous and far-seeing action in making the University of Virginia his sole devisee and legatee. The benefits that will result to our School of Forestry and to the whole subject of Forestry in the Commonwealth are incalculable, and we, the present Rector and Visitors, strongly recommend to any succeeding Board of Visitors, upon which may fall the duty of administering this great undertaking, that they fittingly preserve the identity of this fund in attaching to the School of Forestry, so founded, the name of its munificent donor.

The President is requested to transmit a copy of this resolution to Dr. Seward with a renewed expression of appreciation and thanks, and with best wishes to him for a long life and good health.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee submitted a report to the Board in accordance with instructions given said Committee at the June, 1927, meeting, covering certain questions which have arisen as to the University's use of water from the City's Reservoirs and the rate of payment therefor.

Accompanying said report was a brief form of contract which the Committee recommends should be executed on behalf of the University, by which 175,000 gallons of water per day is to be furnished for the University's use by the City as rental for the University's lands occupied by the City's filter plant, pipe line, etc. Said contract provides that all water in excess of said 175,000 gallons per day shall be paid for by the University at the rate of 5¢ for each 1000 gallons of such excess.

It was thereupon

**RESOLVED** that said report is hereby accepted and approved and the Rector and Secretary are hereby instructed to execute the contract aforesaid on behalf of the University.

And a copy of said report and of said contract are ordered spread upon the minutes of this meeting.

Your Committee, directed at the June, 1927, meeting to effect a settlement with the City of Charlottesville of certain questions which have arisen as to the University's use of water from the City's Reservoirs, and the payment therefor, respectfully report—;

That before any discussion was had with the City authorities Mr. Perkins, our Attorney, was requested to review the situation, going over all existing contracts and giving an opinion as to the whole situation from our own standpoint.

Mr. Perkins, under date of July 11th, 1927, rendered his opinion in the form of a letter, which was addressed to the Mayor and Council of the City of Charlottesville, and which was signed by Dr. Lambeth and delivered to Major John S. Graves, City Attorney, and by him delivered to the City Council. A copy of this letter is attached to this report.

Conferences have been held with the City Attorney, the Superintendent of Water, members of the City's Water Committee, and finally, on October 1st, with the City Council.

We have had five contracts with the City covering our right to use water, these contracts having been executed in 1885, 1891, 1892, 1900, and 1922 respectively.

Under the contract of 1885 we were required to pay the sum of $150.00 per annum towards maintaining the Old City Reservoir. Under the contract of 1900 we were required to pay $30.00 per annum towards maintenance of the Moore's Creek pumping plant, and $12.50 per month for each month said plant was in operation. These charges were carried into the contract of 1922, which is the contract under which we are now operating.

Said contract of 1922 provides, among other things, for the lease to the City for 99 years of a right of way over University grounds for a pipe line, and of some 3-1/2 acres on Observatory Mountain for the City's filter plant. In consideration of these grants the University is to receive 185,000 gallons of water per day, as rent for the land leased, and on account of our one-seventh interest in the City's original water plant, and is to pay for all excess at a rate—;"To be hereafter agreed upon by said City and University, such rate, however not to exceed five cents for each 1000 gallons of water over and above said 175,000 gallons per day".

It will be recalled that the fixing of this maximum of rent at 175,000 gallons per day was believed to have been done under a misapprehension of facts, and your Committee was requested to have this maximum increased if possible.

Upon a full investigation we have found:

First. That while this maximum was unquestionably fixed under a mistake which was made at the time, it is not at all unreasonable and should be allowed to stand.

Second. That the charge of $150.00 per annum and the charge of $30.00 per annum, and of $12.50 per month have not been made by the City for a number of years, although under our contracts these charges might properly have been made within certain limits. The Council has agreed with us that these three charges shall be eliminated in the future.

Third. That the fixed interest charge to the City upon its water bonds amounts to 11-1/4 ¢ per 1000 gallons used, and its operating expense is 4-1/2 ¢ per 1000 gallons used, a total cost of 15-3/4 ¢ to the City for each 1000 gallons furnished us. The 175,000 gallons per day which we receive as rent therefore costs the City $27.56, a total of $826.80 per month of thirty days, or $10,000.00 a year in round numbers. We think that we should agree with the City upon a rate of 5¢ per 1000 gallons of excess over 175,000 gallons a day.

We have not settled on water bills since November 23rd, 1926, and we now owe a balance of $636.97 for water used from that date to September 23rd, 1927. This bill, as originally rendered, was for $809.44, but the City has agreed to a reduction of $172.47, leaving a balance of $63.97 as stated above. This is an average of $63.99 per month for our water. Our present contract with the City provides for the payment by the University of one-seventh of the annual cost of operating and maintaining the new filter plant and booster pump used in connection therewith, provided such one-seventh shall in no event exceed $900.00 per year. Taking it for granted that this charge will not be less than $900.00 per annum, or $75.00 per month, the total average monthly cost to us will approximate $63.99 plus $75.00, or $138.99 per month. Compared with the cost of operating and maintaining a plant of our own this sum is insignificant.

Fourth. The City will read our meters on the 1st day of each month and we would recommend that we check these readings so that no question may arise in the future as to quantities used.

Fifth. We submit herewith a short form of agreement which we think should be executed on behalf of the University, and by the City. It has been submitted to the City Attorney and embodies the tentative agreements reached in our conferences, and which are set out in this report.

On behalf of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, I beg to submit the following report on sale of land in Colorado and Kansas bequeathed to the University by Miss Este Coffinberry for the establishment of the John W. Richard Lectureship in Religion.

During the month of August our agents at Crook, Colorado, and at Bennington, Kansas, submitted offers for the said land as follows:

For the 320 acres of grazing land in Colorado, $7,000, payable $1,000 cash and the remainder in annual payments over a period of 18 years, with interest on all the deferred payments.

For half of the 160 acres of agricultural land in Kansas, an offer of $60.00 per acre was submitted.

These offers were submitted to Mr. Scott, Chairman, who felt that we should dispose of all such land as speedily as possible at reasonable prices, and directed me to visit the said places and look into the situation. Upon reaching Kansas and visiting the land with the prospective purchaser it developed that a portion of the half on which the offer was submitted, which had been in wheat during the past season, had not been plowed and, hence, had grown up in sunflowers, upon seeing which, the purchaser stated that he did not want the half on which said unplowed land lay, but would take the other half at $50.00 per acre. This half contains about 40 acres of grazing land, unsuited for agricultural purposes, and the remainder, about 40 acres, which had been plowed for wheat. I also visited our agent at Minneapolis, Kansas, who has been looking after the property for a number of years, and consulted with him with reference to the offer. (The offer came through a real estate agent at Bennington, Kansas, some 15 miles from Minneapolis. It was his opinion that we should not accept the offer as we had received a very good return from our portion of the wheat this season and from the rental of the grazing land, and stated that it was his opinion that the land would increase at least $5.00 per acre per year for the next two or three years.) Upon my return I made a full, written report to Mr. Scott who disagreed with my recommendation to decline the offer, feeling, as I have above stated, that we should dispose of the land as quickly as a reasonable offer was had, and directed the offer to be accepted, which was done. The papers are now being prepared for closing the deal.

Recently we received an offer of $60.00 cash from another party for the remaining 80 acres which Mr. Scott accepted and the sale was accordingly made. These papers are also being prepared.

This will dispose of all the Kansas land with the exception of some town lots located at Peabody, and I am trying to get them started.

As to the 320 acres tract at Crook, Colorado, I visited the land with the agent there and the purchaser. I found farming conditions better than when there two years ago; but, as our land was unimproved and was situated as to require an expenditure of considerable money to place it in condition for agricultural purposes, and, after discussing the local conditions with our agent, as well as observing them, I was of the opinion that if a sale could be made at something like $20.00 per acre it would be a good sale. After some dickering with the proposed purchaser, an agreement was reached to submit an offer of $7,000 for the tract, being $600 better than his original offer. It developed, however, that if he paid the $1000 cash he would have nothing with which to stock the property and carry forward the farming of it. He then proposed to give a deed of trust on a tract of 160 acres lying adjoining ours, for $1,000 payable $200 per year, with interest, and to secure the remainder of the purchase price on the land being purchased with a deed of trust on same; payments to be made over a period of 18 years with interest at 6%, with the privilege of anticipating any or all of the deferred notes upon 30 days notice. This would mean converting a non-income investment into a good 6% investment on $7,000. At present we are not receiving sufficient from the rental of pasture to pay the taxes and agent's fee.

I reported the matter to the Chairman who directed the offer to be accepted, and the papers have been prepared to close the deal.

I may add that the purchaser of the Colorado tract was reported to be a very substantial citizen, owning 160 acres of very good land with improvements, and was in a position to carry forward the improving of it. He is the mail carrier for that route receiving a salary of from $2,400 to $3,600 per year.

### Medical School and Alterations to Power House. Kitchen and Dining Room Building. Laundry Building. Royster Building. Post Office Building.

| Type of Contract                       | Contractor                                                          | Amount           |
|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| General Construction                    | Southern Ferro Concrete Company, Atlanta, Georgia                   | $589,558.00      |
| Plumbing                                | H. E. Crook Company, Inc., # 28 Light Street, Baltimore, Md.       | $77,585.00       |
| Heating and Ventilating and Refrigerating Apparatus | Johnson-Longworth Heating Company, # 416 East Main Street, Richmond, Va. | $70,300.00       |
| Electrical Equipment                    | Richardson-Wayland Electrical Corporation, # 106-08 Church Avenue, S. W., Roanoke, Va. | $86,934.00       |
| General Contract                       | W. P. Thurston Company, Richmond, Va.                               | $83,269.50       |
| Payments on account to November 5      | $43,288.80                                                          |
| Lump sum contract, including orders #1 to #4 inclusive (Plumbing, W. L. Lacy, Charlottesville, Va.) | $16,353.70 |
| Lump sum contract and order #1 (Electrical Equipment, J. B. Nuss Electrical Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $4,400.00 |
| Lump sum contract and orders #1 and #2 (General Contract, Charlottesville Lumber Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $10,086.85 |
| Payments on account to November 6 (Electrical Work, Sensibaugh-Ritchie Electric Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $1,005.50 |
| Payments to November 6 (Charlottesville Lumber Company, Charlottesville Va.) | $3,325.00 |
| Payments on account to November 5 (Plumbing, W. L. Lacy, Charlottesville, Va.) | $3,481.00 |
| Payments on account to November 5 (Electrical Equipment, J. B. Nuss Electrical Company, Charlottesville, Va.) | $787.44 |
| Total Contracts Awarded                 | $981,605.95                                                        |

**Heating Plant, approximately:**

| Amount               |
|----------------------|
| $85,000.00          |
| $1,066,605.95       |

A called meeting of the Board was held on the above date at 8 o'clock P. M., being continued at 9:30 A. M. November 12th.

There were present Visitors Buchanan, Hall, Hart, Hull, McIntire, Munford, Rinehart, Williams, and the Rector, C. H. Walker, and President Alderman.

The minutes of the previous meeting which had been copied and sent to the members were approved.

The President made the following announcements:

Attendance to date for the present session, 2135, and for the year, including Summer Quarter, Extension, and Nurses' Training School, 5573.

The President was authorized to prepare the usual resolution of thanks for the above donors.

The resignation of Mr. Luther C. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Education and Director of Teacher Training at the close of the session 1926-27 was accepted.

On motion duly made and seconded the following was adopted:

**RESOLVED,** That the Rector and Visitors approve of the action of the President of the University, taken during the Summer Quarter, in making the following appointments:

* Mr. Harry Clemons, Librarian, at a salary of $4,800.00.
* Dr. Richard H. Meade, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, at a salary of $4,000.00.
* Dr. Charles Bruce Morton, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, at a salary of $4,000.00.
* Mr. Eustace E. Windes, Assistant Professor of Secondary Education, at a salary of $1,800.00.
* Mrs. Mary Jeffcott Hamblin, Acting Adviser to Women, at a salary of $1,200.00.

The following Instructors, Assistant, Scholarship and Fellowship holders:

The following appropriations were made:

**RESOLVED,** That the sum of $2,174.38 be and is hereby appropriated to pay off the remainder of the issue of 6 bonds issued in 1896, which were refunded in 1906 for 40 years at 4, the proceeds of which were not sufficient to take up the retired issue by the said sum.

**RESOLVED,** That an appropriation of $500.00 be made for keeping the library open from 4:30 to 7:30 P. M.

In the matter of the will of Dr. Walter M. Seward:

It was stated to the Rector and Visitors that, through a Committee, consisting of Mr. Chapin Jones, Mr. J. L. Newcomb, and Mr. W. Allen Perkins, Dr. Walter M. Seward, an Alumnus of the University, who now resides in Brunswick County, Virginia, has recently executed a will whereby he gives to the University of Virginia, for the use of its School of Forestry, some one thousand acres of timber land in Brunswick County, and a valuable personal estate.

It was thereupon

**Resolved,** That this Board deeply appreciates Dr. Seward's generous and far-seeing action in making the University of Virginia his sole devisee and legatee. The benefits that will result to our School of Forestry and to the whole subject of Forestry in the Commonwealth are incalculable, and we, the present Rector and Visitors, strongly recommend to any succeeding Board of Visitors, upon which may fall the duty of administering this great undertaking, that they fittingly preserve the identity of this fund in attaching to the School of Forestry, so founded, the name of its munificent donor.

The President is requested to transmit a copy of this resolution to Dr. Seward with a renewed expression of appreciation and thanks, and with best wishes to him for a long life and good health.

The Buildings and Grounds Committee submitted a report to the Board in accordance with instructions given said Committee at the June, 1927, meeting, covering certain questions which have arisen as to the University's use of water from the City's Reservoirs and the rate of payment therefor.

Accompanying said report was a brief form of contract which the Committee recommends should be executed on behalf of the University, by which 175,000 gallons of water per day is to be furnished for the University's use by the City as rental for the University's lands occupied by the City's filter plant, pipe line, etc. Said contract provides that all water in excess of said 175,000 gallons per day shall be paid for by the University at the rate of 5¢ for each 1000 gallons of such excess.

It was thereupon

**RESOLVED** that said report is hereby accepted and approved and the Rector and Secretary are hereby instructed to execute the contract aforesaid on behalf of the University.

And a copy of said report and of said contract are ordered spread upon the minutes of this meeting.

Your Committee, directed at the June, 1927, meeting to effect a settlement with the City of Charlottesville of certain questions which have arisen as to the University's use of water from the City's Reservoirs, and the payment therefor, respectfully report—;

That before any discussion was had with the City authorities Mr. Perkins, our Attorney, was requested to review the situation, going over all existing contracts and giving an opinion as to the whole situation from our own standpoint.

Mr. Perkins, under date of July 11th, 1927, rendered his opinion in the form of a letter, which was addressed to the Mayor and Council of the City of Charlottesville, and which was signed by Dr. Lambeth and delivered to Major John S. Graves, City Attorney, and by him delivered to the City Council. A copy of this letter is attached to this report.

Conferences have been held with the City Attorney, the Superintendent of Water, members of the City's Water Committee, and finally, on October 1st, with the City Council.

We have had five contracts with the City covering our right to use water, these contracts having been executed in 1885, 1891, 1892, 1900, and 1922 respectively.

Under the contract of 1885 we were required to pay the sum of $150.00 per annum towards maintaining the Old City Reservoir. Under the contract of 1900 we were required to pay $30.00 per annum towards maintenance of the Moore's Creek pumping plant, and $12.50 per month for each month said plant was in operation. These charges were carried into the contract of 1922, which is the contract under which we are now operating.

Said contract of 1922 provides, among other things, for the lease to the City for 99 years of a right of way over University grounds for a pipe line, and of some 3-1/2 acres on Observatory Mountain for the City's filter plant. In consideration of these grants the University is to receive 185,000 gallons of water per day, as rent for the land leased, and on account of our one-seventh interest in the City's original water plant, and is to pay for all excess at a rate—;"To be hereafter agreed upon by said City and University, such rate, however not to exceed five cents for each 1000 gallons of water over and above said 175,000 gallons per day".

It will be recalled that the fixing of this maximum of rent at 175,000 gallons per day was believed to have been done under a misapprehension of facts, and your Committee was requested to have this maximum increased if possible.

Upon a full investigation we have found:

First. That while this maximum was unquestionably fixed under a mistake which was made at the time, it is not at all unreasonable and should be allowed to stand.

Second. That the charge of $150.00 per annum and the charge of $30.00 per annum, and of $12.50 per month have not been made by the City for a number of years, although under our contracts these charges might properly have been made within certain limits. The Council has agreed with us that these three charges shall be eliminated in the future.

Third. That the fixed interest charge to the City upon its water bonds amounts to 11-1/4 ¢ per 1000 gallons used, and its operating expense is 4-1/2 ¢ per 1000 gallons used, a total cost of 15-3/4 ¢ to the City for each 1000 gallons furnished us. The 175,000 gallons per day which we receive as rent therefore costs the City $27.56, a total of $826.80 per month of thirty days, or $10,000.00 a year in round numbers. We think that we should agree with the City upon a rate of 5¢ per 1000 gallons of excess over 175,000 gallons a day.

We have not settled on water bills since November 23rd, 1926, and we now owe a balance of $636.97 for water used from that date to September 23rd, 1927. This bill, as originally rendered, was for $809.44, but the City has agreed to a reduction of $172.47, leaving a balance of $63.97 as stated above. This is an average of $63.99 per month for our water. Our present contract with the City provides for the payment by the University of one-seventh of the annual cost of operating and maintaining the new filter plant and booster pump used in connection therewith, provided such one-seventh shall in no event exceed $900.00 per year. Taking it for granted that this charge will not be less than $900.00 per annum, or $75.00 per month, the total average monthly cost to us will approximate $63.99 plus $75.00, or $138.99 per month. Compared with the cost of operating and maintaining a plant of our own this sum is insignificant.

Fourth. The City will read our meters on the 1st day of each month and we would recommend that we check these readings so that no question may arise in the future as to quantities used.

Fifth. We submit herewith a short form of agreement which we think should be executed on behalf of the University, and by the City. It has been submitted to the City Attorney and embodies the tentative agreements reached in our conferences, and which are set out in this report.
