<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1934)

## May 3, 1934

### Board of Visitors Minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 3, 1934

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

### Board of Visitors Minutes

**Official minutes**

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## RESOLUTIONS ON THE DEATH OF CYRUS HARDING WALKER

From the General Education Board, for construction of a laboratory building for Mountain Lake Biological Station, for its maintenance, and for scholarships for southern teachers of biology

$31,200

From the Rockefeller Foundation, for support of the researches on the magneto-optic method being conducted by Professor Jesse W. Beams, - for the period July 1, 1934 to June 30, 1935

$2,500

From the National Research Council, Grant-in-Aid for Professor Frank A. Geldard, for purchase of apparatus in connection with study of limits of palmesthetic sensibility of various skin areas

$294

From Mr. Frederic W. Scott, Rector of the University, to be used for repairs to stained glass windows in the Chapel

$267

From the Seven Society - a renewal of the Seven Society Alumni Scholarship, amounting, annually, to

$200

From the Seven Society, to be added to the student Loan Fund

$77.77

A Special Meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock P. M., at the President's Office, with the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Hall, Rinehart and Lewis C. Williams, and President Newcomb, present.

Mr. Williams presented a certificate of qualification as Visitor.

President Newcomb announced the enrollment to date, 2,388, and the following gifts:

From Mr. Josiah K. Lilly, of Indianapolis, a set of "Foster Hall Reproductions of the Songs, Compositions and Arrangements by Stephen Collins Foster".

From Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire, old and valuable jewelry - most of it of Russian origin. $500,000.

From members of the faculty, alumni, students, and other friends of the University, many books and pamphlets to the general and departmental libraries of the University.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented a report in the matter of bequest of Mrs. Dora H. Goodwyn, and stated that owing to the complications involved, he would request a committee be appointed from the Board to have power to act in securing a settlement, whereupon the following motion, duly made and seconded, was unanimously adopted.

**RESOLVED:** That a Committee, composed of Messrs. Garnett, Williams and Corbitt, is hereby appointed to confer with Mr. Perkins, Attorney for the Board, upon the question of settlement of the Estate of Dora H. Goodwyn, deceased, and that this Committee be, and is hereby, given power to act, that is to say —; the Committee shall have power either to accept the proposals made by Mr. E. Peyton Turner, Administrator, as set out at length in the report that Mr. Perkins made to this meeting, to reject said proposals, or to submit to Mr. Turner, or to the Circuit Court of Greensville County, Virginia, some other plan for the settlement of this Estate, and it is ordered that the report presented to the meeting by Mr. Perkins, together with the letters and statement attached thereto, and referred to therein, be filed by the Secretary with any other documents presented to this meeting.

(Report of Mr. Perkins filed in the Goodwyn Will Envelope.)

Mr. Perkins, as Attorney for the University, presented the following preamble and resolution which, upon being moved and seconded, was unanimously adopted:

As sole legatee under the will of Walter M. Seward, deceased, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia is the owner of certain Manhattan Railway Company Consolidated Mortgage 4% Gold Bonds, aggregating $2,000.00 face value, and due April 1st, 1990, registered in the name of Walter M. Seward.

These bonds were deposited with Central Hanover Bank & Trust Company, 70 Broadway, New York City, and a Certificate of Deposit for said bonds issued in the name of said Walter M. Seward, October 5th, 1932.

In the settlement of the Estate of said Walter M. Seward it is necessary, not only that the bonds be transferred into the name of the University, but that a new Certificate of Deposit be issued in the University's name. Under the plan of deposit said bonds were in negotiable form, and in order that this may be continued it is now proposed that a bond power be executed under which said Manhattan Railway Company bonds may be transferred by the holder thereof if necessary. A proper form of bond power was presented to the meeting, and it was, thereupon, unanimously.

**RESOLVED** that J. L. Newcomb, President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia be, and is hereby, requested to execute this bond power whereby the bonds aforesaid shall be negotiable in the hands of said Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company, depository under the original agreement of deposit with said Walter M. Seward.

Mr. Perkins, as Attorney for the University, presented the following preamble and resolution which, upon being moved and seconded, was unanimously adopted:

WHEREAS, in the construction of State Highway Route No. 29 northward from Ivy Road, it was proposed to cross the athletic fields lying North and South of the railroad tracks; and

WHEREAS, this would greatly damage LeFevre Field; and whereas in order to get the State Highway Department to run said Route No. 29 further West so that it would not cut into the athletic fields, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, under date of March 24, 1933, passed the following resolution:

"Mr. Newcomb stated that the State Highway Department in continuing Highway 29, Northward from Ivy Road, desired to connect up same on a direct line with the road West of the Memorial Gymnasium and that in order to do so, it would be necessary to remove the filling station on the North side of said Ivy Road and that the present owner had agreed to remove said filling station provided the University grant him sufficient land on the East side of the proposed Route, abutting on the Ivy Road on which to relocate said filling station;

"It was therefore RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that they concur in the recommendation of the State Highway Department that a strip of the University's land 30 feet wide on Route No. 39, and running out to nothing at the intersection of the property dedicated for an outlet to the Ivy Road Cottage Company's property, being conveyed by the Legislature of Virginia to Miss Carrie Davis for the use of a filling station. The purpose of this is to enable the State Highway Department to continue Route 29 North on a straight line with its present location just West of the Memorial Gymnasium".

WHEREAS, State Highway Department failed to get the Legislature of Virginia at their last session to pass an act allowing the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to convey the fee simple title to the property above described; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature will not meet again for two years; and whereas the whole project of Route No. 29 is being held up on account of a right of way from Route No. 39 on the Ivy Road to the C. & O. Railway tracks; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are still desirous of having said Route No. 29 located West of their property so that it will not injure their athletic field;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia do lease to Caroline Preston Davis for the consideration of One Dollar, for a term of ninety-nine (99) years, a tract or parcel of land situated on the Ivy Road at the Western point of the University of Virginia's land on the North side of the Ivy Road 48 feet in width on Route No. 39, and running out to nothing at a point which is the extension of Miss Caroline Preston Davis' rear, or Northern boundary, in an Easterly direction and thirty feet from her Eastern line to the Eastern edge of the intersection of the property supposed to have been dedicated for an outlet to the Ivy Terrace Cottage Company's property, and to concur in a recommendation of the State Highway Department to the Legislature of Virginia, when it meets in 1936, that said parcel of land be conveyed to Miss Caroline Preston Davis in fee simple, and that the Rector is hereby authorized and directed on behalf of the University of Virginia to enter into a contract with Caroline Preston Davis for a ninety-nine (99) year lease for said tract of land, which contract shall have been first approved by the Attorney for the University carrying out and putting into effect the provisions set out above.

Upon recommendation of the President, leave of absence was granted to Dr. Melvin G. de Chazeau in the following resolution adopted:

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University, That Dr. Melvin G. de Chazeau, Associate Professor of Commerce, be granted leave of absence for the Session 1934-35, to enable him to do economic research at the University of Pittsburgh, in connection with an analysis of price and distribution problems in the iron and steel industry, under the NRA Codes. This leave is without salary.

Upon the recommendation of the President, change in titles of the following members of the faculty was made as set forth in the following resolution, adopted:

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University that the title of Professor Edward W. Saunders be changed from Professor of Applied Mathematics to Professor of Civil Engineering, and,

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University that the title of Acting Assistant Professor Frederick T. Morse be changed to Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following action was taken in the resignation of Associate Professor Paul as set forth in the resolution, adopted:

**RESOLVED**, by the Rector and Visitors of the University, That the resignation of Mr. Paul, Associate Professor of Public Speaking, be not accepted, and that he be requested to continue his services for the Session 1934-35.

The President presented a Waiver of Citation in connection with the settlement of the Robert P. Doremus estate, and, on motion, duly made and seconded, the following was adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That the Rector and Visitors concur in the Waiver of Citation in the Robert P. Doremus bequest to the University, and that the Rector, Fred W. Scott, be authorized to sign the same on behalf, of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Request of Dr. Carlisle S. Lentz, Superintendent of the University Hospital, for a loan of $11,000 to be secured on first mortgage on the McIntire residence property, situated on Rugby Road, payable $1,000 per year beginning with the sixth year of the loan, with privilege of anticipating any or all of the bonds at any interest period, with interest @ 6% per annum, payable semi-annually, was granted.

Request from Professor A. F. Macconochie for an extension of the time on two of his bonds of $500 each, falling due in June, 1934, in order that he use the money in the building of a garage and servants' quarters at his home at Farmington; said extension to be for one year from date, with the remaining bonds evidencing this loan being extended a like period from their respective maturities, was granted. (This is in lieu of his former request for a loan of $2,000 to be used for the said purpose.)

The following resolution from Governor Pollard, as set forth in his letter of January 10, 1934, in regard to the proposed Private Patient Pavilion at the Hospital, was unanimously adopted:

1. That no request will be made for an appropriation from the State of Virginia for the payment of any expenses incurred in equipping or maintaining the said project, or in providing the funds required for liquidating the indebtedness incurred for the erection or equipment thereof.

2. That such additional fees or charges shall be assessed against the persons or agencies which may be served by the proposed project when completed as may be found necessary to provide sufficient funds for the equipment and maintenance of said project, and for the liquidation of the indebtedness incurred for the erection and equipment thereof, should the income available for this purpose be found inadequate therefor.

3. That all fees, charges and other revenues derived from the operation of the project in excess of annual interest and sinking fund or bond redemption requirements will, upon receipt thereof, be paid into the State Treasury, to the credit of the University of Virginia, for expenditure for the aforesaid purposes.

4. That all fees, charges and other revenues derived from the project and allocated to the payment of interest and sinking fund or bond redemption requirements thereon, shall, provided the said Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works agrees thereto, be paid into the State Treasury, to the credit of the University of Virginia, for expenditure for the aforesaid purposes.

Request for loan of $9,000 from Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity was declined.

Request for loan of approximately $50,000 from John E. Costen, to be secured on his Charlottesville Restaurant property, was declined.

Report of the General Athletic Association for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1933, was presented, read, and ordered filed.

A letter from Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire, a former member of the Board, was read by President Newcomb, expressing his gratification at being privileged to serve the University in the capacity of Visitor, and expressing his regret at being forced to decline the offer of Governor Peery to re-appoint him on the Board. President Newcomb was requested to reply to the letter on behalf of the Board.

The President stated that he had been appealed to by the College Topics Board to have a subscription fee made a part of the University's charges against all students. The matter was referred to a Special Committee consisting of Rinehart, L. C. Williams and President Newcomb.

With respect to opening the bids on the New Engineering Building and the awarding of the contract for the construction of the same, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That a Committee, consisting of Messrs. Rinehart, L. C. Williams, Corbitt and Scott, be and is hereby authorized to open the bids for the New Engineering Building on May 4th, 1934, at 11 o'clock on behalf of this Board, and to recommend to the Public Works Administration the bid desired to be accepted by them; but, if the lowest bid is in excess of the money available for the construction of the buildings, then in that event the Committee is authorized and directed to modify the plans and specifications and ask the same bidders to rebid on the revised plans and specifications, and the said Committee is further authorized to open the bids on the revised plans and specifications and to recommend the lowest bidders to the Public Works Administration.

The President presented the matter of extension of heating mains to Carr's Hill to care for heating of University Chapel, Architectural Building, New Bayly Art Museum, and the President's Residence, and by unanimous vote of the Board the President was directed to request the Governor to permit the Board to borrow not to exceed $12,000 to complete this project, with the understanding that the Governor would include in the budget of the University for the fiscal year 1936-37 the sum so expended to pay the loan.

The Special Committee appointed at the last meeting of the Board to prepare suitable resolutions touching the death of Cyrus Harding Walker, presented the following, which was adopted:

Cyrus Harding Walker died at his home at Heathsville, Virginia, on February 23rd, 1934, after serving as a member of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia for more than sixteen years, during eight years of which long period he was Rector of the University.

He was appointed in 1917 by Governor Westmoreland Davis to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Dr. Frank W. Lewis, for the term ending February 28th, 1918 and attended his first meeting on November 27th, 1917.

He was re-appointed February 28th, 1918 for a term of four years ending January 28th, 1922.

He was re-appointed February 28th, 1922 by Governor E. Lee Trinkle for a term of four years ending January 28th, 1926 and was elected Rector of the University on April 6th, 1922.

He was re-appointed February 28th, 1926 by Governor Harry F. Byrd for a term of four years ending February 28th, 1930 and was re-elected Rector of the University on April 27th, 1926.

He was re-appointed February 28th, 1930 by Governor John Garland Pollard for a term of four years ending February 28th, 1934 and would have again been elected Rector had he not declined re-election at the meeting of the Board held on April 3rd, 1930.

At the said meeting on April 3rd, 1930 no less a pen than that of President Alderman himself gave dignified and sincere expression to the affection and regard in which Mr. Walker was held by the Board of Visitors. At that time the committee, composed of Dr. Alderman, Lewis C. Williams and Senator B. F. Buchanan, said this:

"The Rector and Visitors recall that Mr. Walker, an alumnus of the University of Virginia of the year 1882, has been, for thirteen years, a member of the Board of Visitors, and it is a satisfaction to them to know that they will continue to have in their counsels the benefit of his ripe wisdom and wide knowledge of University affairs. It is their special wish to place on their official records a permanent acknowledgment of their obligation to Cyrus Harding Walker for his efficient services as Rector, his unfailing courtesy, his sense of justice, his highminded and unselfish devotion to the interest of the University and his far-seeing vision of the duty and destiny of his Alma Mater".

Mr. Walker was permitted to serve this University nearly four years more after he had been paid this tribute that he richly deserved when he retired as Rector. He was permitted to survive to contribute "his ripe wisdom and wide knowledge of University affairs" to the important decision reached in the election of the present President of the University. He had the happiness to participate in that election and expressed upon that occasion his confidence that the University would continue unabated her fruitful service to Virginia and the nation.

Mr. Walker was a conservative. He had studied and understood the principles upon which the United States of America have progressed to power and prosperity. He believed in these principles not as a shield to protect the privileges of any particular class, but as a sword wherewith to preserve the equal rights of all American citizens. He was a conservative and yet he was a Jeffersonian: he believed in popular rights, but he believed even more in the Constitution that protected all rights. In a word he was an "old fasioned Democrat".

He was educated in private schools under a private tutor before he came to this University and here he not only broadened and ripened his mental powers, but imbibed the spirit and traditions of this place with an affectionate appreciation of all that was fine in them.

Thus prepared and equipped he went forth to a life of usefulness. Not the least of his public services were those he contributed to this University. He was also a member of the General Assembly of Virginia and gave sound and wise counsel in the deliberations of the Convention that framed the Constitution of Virginia of 1902.

Loyal to the lawyer's finest code his interests were broader than his profession. In his immediate community the confidence of his neighbors in his character and capacity called him to leadership again and again. A wise counsellor he did not confine his helpfulness to those who were his immediate clients, but gave freely of his experience, his study, his knowledge and his chastened sanity to the many who asked his advice.

In the best sense of the word Mr. Walker was a "good" man. Deeply religious and profoundly a Christian, he was broadminded in his tolerance of others who differed from him. A man of well developed and firmly held convictions he yet agreed with Thomas Jefferson that the freedom of the mind of every man should be protected. He believed in a popular education that trained men to be trusted, and in a democracy that gave opportunity to all such men to be fairly heard.

On his personal side Mr. Walker cultivated and radiated a genial charm. He possessed a benevolent countenance and the light of kindliness shown in his eyes as he talked with friends in whose sincerity and integrity he confided.

His spirit was gentle; his heart was pure and he lived a full life of good service and died with honor.

In consideration whereof, Be it Resolved that this memorial be spread upon the minutes of this Board, that a copy be sent to Mr. Walker's family and that a copy be published in the newspapers of his home section.
