<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1935)

## September 19, 1935

### board of visitors minutes

**University of Virginia, Board of Visitors**\
September 19, 1935\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

### Board of Visitors minutes

**Official minutes**\
1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.\
Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Pursuant to call of the Rector, a Special Meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at the home of the Rector, 909 West Franklin Street, Richmond, Va., on this date, at 3 o'clock.

There were present the Rector, Fred W. Scott, and Visitors Rinehart, Lewis C. Williams, Stuart, Corbitt, Goolrick and Hall.

The question of the authority of the Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies to admit a colored student to the University of Virginia was referred to the Rector and Visitors. After a discussion of the entire subject, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED**, That whereas "The admission of white and colored persons in the same schools is contrary to the long established and fixed policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Therefore, for this and for other good and sufficient reasons not necessary to be herein enumerated, the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia direct the Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies to refuse respectfully the pending application of a colored student.

The President presented to the Board a form letter, over the signature of Morris Simonoff, Branch Supervisor of the Mortgage Commission of the State of New York in re: reorganization of a mortgage of $830,000 upon premises 208 to 212 West 23rd Street, Borough of Manhattan, County, City and State of New York, and known as "Hotel Carteret", guaranteed by the Bond & Mortgage Guarantee Company, Guarantee #207,148, of which the University hold $3,000 in the Dr. Walter M. Seward estate, to be presented to the Supreme Court of the State of New York. Accompanying the said letter was a form of approval which the Board was requested to approve and have executed and returned to The Mortgage Commission of the State of New York.

It was thereupon,

**RESOLVED**, That the Rector be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute the form of consent to be filed with the Supreme Court of the State of New York, through the Mortgage Commission of the State of New York in the foregoing matter.

The meeting then adjourned.
