<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1942) March 20, 1942

## Board of Visitors Minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
March 20, 1942\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2006

## Board of Visitors Minutes

**Official minutes**\
4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.\
Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

* Executive Committee:
* Finance Committee:
* Buildings & Grounds:
* New Buildings Committee:
* LEAVES OF ABSENCE:
* PROMOTIONS:
* ELECTIONS.
* EVACUATION HOSPITAL APPOINTMENTS.
* LOAN TO PROFESSOR ORLAND E. WHITE:
* TAX-FREE ALCOHOL REPORTS:
* Adopted: CONTRACT PHYSICS LABORATORY AND U. S. AMERICA:
* Adopted: BLANDY FARM RIGHT OF WAY:
* Adopted: SPECIAL PAYMENT TO W. ALLAN PERKINS, ATTORNEY FOR THE UNIVERSITY:
* INSURANCE FOR LOSS BAND INSTRUMENTS & UNIFORMS:
* RE: EDWARD R. STETTINIUS:
* INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS:
* CONTRACTS WITH U. S. ARMY FOR THE USE OF BUILDINGS FOR SCHOOL OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT.

A called meeting of the Board was held on this date at 11 o'clock, a. m., with the following members present: R. Gray Williams, Lewis C. Williams, Hollis Rinehart, Christopher B. Gernett, James H. Corbitt, Edward C. Anderson, Aubray G. Weaver and President Newcomb.

Hollis Rinehart, holding over from the expiration of his term in 1940, was appointed by Governor Price for the remainder of his term expiring February 28, 1944, and confirmed by the Senate, and Messrs. Lewis C. Williams, James H. Corbitt, Aubrey G. Weaver, and Edward C. Anderson, appointed Visitors by Governor Darden for the four year term expiring February 28, 1946, and confirmed by the Senate, were duly qualified by the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County.

Lewis C. Williams was called to the chair for the purpose of organizing the Board, whereupon the following officers were elected for the term ending February 28, 1946:

* R. Gray Williams, Rector.
* E. I. Carruthers, Secretary.

R. Gray Williams thereupon took the chair and announced the following standing committees of the Board:

* Goolrick
* Corbitt
* Rinehart
* Lewis C. Williams
* The Rector.
* The Rector
* Rinehart
* Stettinius
* Corbitt
* Weaver.
* Rinehart
* Corbitt
* Garnett
* Anderson.
* Rinehart
* Lewis C. Williams
* Garnett
* Anderson.

The minutes of the previous meeting, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced the enrollment for the session to date 2576, withdrawals 321, net 2255.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following Leaves of Absence, Promotions and Elections were voted:

* Professor Harry Cross Dillard, Professor of Law, leave of absence, without salary, for the period beginning March 19, 1942, and continuing in force "during the pleasure of the President of the United States for the time being, and for the duration of the present emergency and six months thereafter unless sooner terminated." He will be on duty with the School of Military Government.
* Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Director of the Department of Student Health, leave of absence, without salary, from the time of his induction into the service for the duration of the war.
* Dr. Frank A. Geldard, Professor of Psychology, leave of absence, without salary, for the duration of the war, for the service with the Army.
* Mr. Thomas Mayhurst Evans, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, leave of absence, without salary, beginning April 1, 1942 for the duration of the war.
* Dr. Staige David Blackford, Associate Professor of Medicine, leave of absence, without salary, for the duration of the war, for service with the Evacuation Hospital No. 8.
* Dr. Everett Cato Drash, Associate Professor of Clinical Surgery and Gynecology, leave of absence, without salary, for the duration of the war, for service with the Evacuation Hospital No. 8.
* Dr. John O. McNeel, Assistant Director of the Department of Student Health, leave of absence, without salary, from the time of his induction into the service for the duration of the war.
* Dr. Marcus B. Mallett, Instructor in the Corcoran School of Philosophy, leave of absence, without salary, for the third term of the present session.
* Dr. Lawrence R. Quarles promoted from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering at $2800, to Associate Professor, at $3,750, effective with the session of 1942-43.
* Dr. James K. Scott, promoted from Assistant Professor of Pathology, at $2800, to Associate Professor, at $3,750, effective with the session of 1942-43.
* Dr. Walter Ansell Derrick, promoted from Instructor in Pathology at $2400 to Assistant Professor at $3400, effective July 1, 1942.
* Dr. Frank W. Finger, elected Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology for the session of 1942-43, at a salary of $2800 for the session.
* Dr. George C. Ham, elected Research Associate in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1942, at a salary of $3500 per annum, $3,000 of which will be paid by the University and $500 from funds of the Aviation Medicine Project, for the duration of the Project, his salary to revert to $3000 when the Project is completed.

The following appointments to the Evacuation Hospital No. 8 were made:

* Dr. Staige Davis Blackford, Director.

Assistants in Medicine, without salary, and attached to the University of Virginia School of Medicine and Hospital, for the purpose of assignment to Evacuation Hospital No. 8:

* Dr. Carlton J. Casey, Neurological Institute, N. Y. City.
* Dr. W. David Driscoll, Hunton Hall, Medical College of Virginia.
* Dr. J. Richard Morris, Jr., Locust Grove, Charlottesville, Va.
* Dr. Otis N. Shelton, Orange, Va.
* Dr. N. McKelden Smith, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md.
* Dr. A. A. Den, Washington, D. C.

Assistants in Surgery, without salary, and attached to the University of Virginia School of Medicine and Hospital, for the purpose of assignment to Evacuation Hospital No. 8:

* Dr. Richard P. Bell, Jr., Baltimore City Hospital, Baltimore, Md.
* Dr. S. W. Cascells, Norfolk, Va.
* Dr. John B. Haley, Charlottesville, Va.
* Dr. William R. Hill, Grace Hospital, Richmond, Va.
* Dr. Hubert B. Holsinger, Farmville, Va.
* Dr. Prentice Kinser, Danville, Va.
* Dr. Edmund C. Laird, 2002 Woodlawn Ave., Wilmington, Del.
* Dr. Donald F. Marshall, 6220 Rolfe Avenue, Norfolk, Va.
* Dr. Thomas B. Payne, Fredericksburg, Va.
* Dr. Aubrey Carter, Children's Hospital, Washington, D. C.
* Dr. Maurice LeBauer, Greensboro, N. C.

Assistant in Hospital Administration, without salary, and attached to the University of Virginia School of Medicine and Hospital, for the purpose of assignment to Evacuation Hospital No. 8:

* Mr. William G. Suhling, III, Lynchburg, Va.

Because of uncertainties in connection with the physical examination of the physicians to be attached to the University of Virginia Medical School and Hospital Evacuation Unit No. 8, which will necessitate changes in personnel, the following was voted:

**RESOLVED**, That the President be and he is hereby authorized to attach to the Medical School and Hospital additional staff, as he may find necessary, as assistants without salary, which appointments will be reported to the Board at its next meeting for confirmation.

Request from Dr. Orland E. White for a loan in the sum of $5,000 secured by a first lien on his residence in Charlottesville, carrying interest @5%, with agreement that fire insurance policies in the sum of $5,000 be deposited with the University, was granted subject to approval of Mr. Rinehart following his inspection of the property.

At a meeting of this Board held July 26, 1940, the following Resolution was unanimously adopted: "Resolved, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that R. Gray Williams, Rector, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign any and all applications for permits, reports, and other papers in connection with the Alcohol Tax Unit, Internal Revenue Service, for and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia."

Because of greater convenience in handling monthly reports of alcohol on hand in the Hospital, it is desirable that these routine reports be signed by the Administrator of the Hospital rather than by the Rector of the University, and it is therefore

**RESOLVED**, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that Dr. Carlisle S. Lentz, Administrator of the Hospital, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign, for this Board, all monthly reports of tax-free alcohol required by law to be furnished to the Alcohol Tax Unit, Internal Revenue Service, Treasury Department, U.S.A., and this authority is hereby made effective as of January 1, 1941.

**RESOLVED**, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute Memorandum of Agreement or Contract between the United States of America and the University of Virginia, in the amount of $23,500, to be paid by the United States of America for research in the Department of Physics under the direction of Dr. Jesse W. Beams, said Contract to be marked for identification "U.S.A. and U.Va.No.5."

**RESOLVED**, FURTHER, That E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to attest the signature, affix the seal, and certify that this Resolution was passed by authority of the Governing Board of this University, and is within the scope of its corporate powers.

The President presented to the Board a copy of a Deed by which the University conveys a right of way over a portion of the Blandy Farm to the Northern Virginia Power Company, for the construction of an electric transmission and distribution line. He also stated that proper contracts for rural line extension and for individual service line have already been executed by him on behalf of the University. After due consideration, it was

**RESOLVED**, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that J. L. Newcomb, President, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute said deed in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, is hereby authorized and directed to affix the corporate seal to said Deed, to attest the same, and to deliver said Deed to the Northern Virginia Power Company.

The President presented to the Board an itemized statement of work done by W. Allan Perkins as attorney for the University during the calendar year 1941. Since it appears to the Board that $500 is an unusually low fee to be charged by an attorney for as much work as Mr. Perkins had done for this Board, it was thereupon

**RESOLVED**, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to approve a voucher in the sum of $200 as an addition to the regular $300 approved compensation for Mr. Perkins, and that this voucher be paid by the Bursar of the University from the unexpended balance of University funds in his hands.

Mr. Perkins appeared before the Board and made a statement with reference to the loss of uniforms and band instruments owned by the University, which occurred on the night of October 5, 1941, when a bus owned by Safeway Trails, Inc., of Washington, D. C., in which members of the University Band were returning from the Yale-Virginia football game in New Haven, was burned. He recalled the fact that a meeting was held in the President's office on the evening of November 7, 1941, at which the following members of the Board were present: Messrs. Garnett, Lewis Williams, Gray Williams, and Corbitt, together with the President and Mr. Perkins. At that meeting the whole situation with reference to the University's claim against the Bus Company for this loss was discussed in detail over a period of two hours. At the conclusion of the meeting Mr. Perkins, as Attorney for the University, was authorized to settle the University's claim at 50% of the total valuation placed upon the instruments and uniforms. The total value of these articles owned by the University was $3,496.40 of which 50% is $1,748.20. Mr. Perkins further stated that on the evening of November 10th, he and Mr. Battle had met all of the individual members of the Band and had had a lengthy discussion of the whole situation. At this meeting they were authorized by the members of the Band to make a settlement at 75% of the individual claims, the total of the individual claims amounting to $4,616.68, that they at once offered to make a settlement with the Companies at 75% of the total of the University's claim and the individual claims and negotiations extending over several months were entered into on this basis, all of which proved to be unsuccessful.

Within the last month an offer has been made by the Company to settle at 50% of all claims. This has been submitted to the individual members of the Band and accepted. It is not thought that any time or effort was wasted in negotiations for settlement at 75% and it is believed that had our offer of settlement been made in the first instance on a 50% basis we would not have been able ultimately to secure a settlement even at 50%.

Mr. Perkins then presented a form of receipt and release which has been agreed upon by him and by Mr. Charles B. McInnis, of Washington, D. C., Attorney for Safeway Trails, Inc.

It was, thereupon,

**RESOLVED**, that the President be and he is hereby authorized to execute this receipt in the form presented, in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of this Board, be and is hereby authorized to affix the corporate seal to said receipt and release, and to attest the same, and that Mr. Perkins be instructed to settle this claim with Safeway Trails for the sum of $1,748.20, delivering the executed receipt and release in the form submitted to this meeting, upon payment of said amount in cash.

And it is ordered that a copy of the release in the form submitted to this meeting be filed as a part of the minutes of this meeting.

President Newcomb advised the Board that Mr. E. R. Stettinius had been admitted to the University Hospital for treatment, preventing his attendance upon this meeting of the Board, whereupon on motion it was

**RESOLVED**, that we express through the Rector to our fellow member, Ed Stettinius, our regret that his illness has prevented his attendance on the meeting of this Board, and our best wishes for his early recovery.

The President discussed with the Board the desirability of holding the Institute of Public Affairs this year, and stated his wishes to doing so provided the necessary finances could be assured, that it would require about $9,000 to meet the expenses thereof, of which sum $5,000 had been granted by the Carnegie Foundation, and that he had hopes of being able to raise the balance.

On motion, it was,

**RESOLVED**, That the Institute of Public Affairs be held in 1942, provided the President is assured of sufficient financial support to carry it forward, and, further,

That the Committee on the Institute of Public Affairs consist of four members of the Board and the President.

The President explained to the Rector and Visitors that he had offered certain space in the Clark Memorial Law Building, Monroe Hall, the Alderman Library, Thornton Hall, and the Naval R.O.T.C. Building, when completed, to the United States Army, for the purpose of housing its newly organized school of Military Government.

After discussion, the following Resolution was unanimously adopted:

**RESOLVED**, by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to sign a lease with the United States of America acting through the War Department, for the above space, at the rate of $1.00 per year, for the duration of the war and six months thereafter.

**RESOLVED**, FURTHER, that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a lease with the United States of America for the rental of Varsity Hall, at the rate of $100 per month, from April 1, 1942 for the duration of the war and six months thereafter, and

The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to attach the seal, attest the same, and to certify that this was done by the Board and was within its corporate powers.

The meeting then adjourned.
