Board of Visitors minutes (1949) July 21, 1949
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 21, 1949

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TRAFFIC LIGHT AT RUGBY ROAD AND 250 NCAA REGULATIONS
----------------------------------------------------

Pursuant to a decision of the Board on July 8, 1949, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 2 p.m. in the office of Mr. Thomas B. Gay, Richmond, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Visitors Anderson, Carrington, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Miller, Smith, Trout, and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Garnett, Talbott, and Wailes.

President Darden presented a request from the City Manager, Mr. James Bowen, for permission to install two thirty foot telephone poles on University property as shown by a sketch prepared by Mr. Bowen and shown to the Board. The installation of these poles will make possible changes in the traffic light at the intersection of Rugby Road and Route 250 which will enable the traffic to be handled more efficiently. The Board approved the request as presented.

Guests: Mr. Hunter Faulconer, Mr. Charles Fenwick, Capt. Norton G. Pritchett, Mr. Roger Rinehart, Mr. Nicholas Wilson, Mr. Robert D. Hatcher, Mr. William D. Camp, Mr. J. Malcolm Luck, and Mr. I. Oppelman.

Mr. Wilson, President of the Alumni Association, reviewed for the Board a trip which he and Mr. J. Malcolm Luck, Secretary of the Alumni Association, made to Washington and Lee, William and Mary, V.M.I., V.P.I., and the University of Richmond. At William and Mary, the University of Richmond, and Washington and Lee, the three schools which have already signed the NCAA Code, they discussed with officials the procedures being established to comply with the Code. Some of the athletes at these schools will qualify for scholarships; others will be given jobs about the campus. V.M.I. and V.P.I. have made special requests to the NCAA, because of the military program it is impossible for their students to work while attending college.

President Darden stated that he feels if the University of Virginia cannot comply with the NCAA Code we should so advise the NCAA officials and resign. There was a general discussion of the possibility of establishing jobs at the University which would enable our students to earn enough to pay their way through school and at the same time play football. Mr. Darden stated he did not believe a student could work, play football, and at the same time maintain acceptable academic standards. The guests then departed

After discussion, the Board having considered the matter of compliance with the "Sanity Code" of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED that the general policy and the program of the University with respect to athletics are as reflected in the questionnaire heretofore submitted the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the correspondence of the President and Mr. Clarence P. Houston, with respect thereto, and that while the University will give further consideration to the matter of compliance with the conditions of such "Sanity Code," it has not as yet found it practicable to do more than what has already been indicated in the aforesaid questionnaire and correspondence

On motion, the meeting was then adjourned