Board of Visitors minutes (1950) December 15, 1950
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 15, 1950

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

3 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS DEATH OF DR. SNODDY RESIGNATIONS ELECTIONS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION New Administrator for Hospital Organization of Hospital NCAA MATTER BLUE CROSS CONTRACT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS AWARD OF CONTRACTS FOR FINE ARTS CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Building

$ 18,910.65

Medical School and Hospital

71,601.99

Leander McCormick Observatory

3,300.00

S. H. Watts Medical Library Fund

9,157.00

Miscellaneous restricted gifts

5,122.14

Total

$108,091.78

Faculty Member and Department

Sponsoring Agency

Amount

Mr. G. B. Zehmer, Extension Division

Navy

$ 820.00

Dr. Alfred Chanutin, Biochemistry

Chemical Warfare Service

9,448.00

Dr. Alfred Chanutin, Biochemistry

Veterans Administration

15,378.00

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Pharmacology

Atomic Energy Commission

9,916.00

Dr. J. W. Beams, Physics

Navy

61,000.00

Dr. Alfred Burger, Chemistry

Navy

10,000.00

Dr. L. G. Hoxton, Physics

N. A. C. A.

8,450.00

Dr. F. A. Geldard, Psychology

Navy

2,000.00

Col. S. P. Poole, Geography

Navy

24,807.00

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Pharmacology

Navy

7,500.00

Dr. H. L. Alden, Astronomy

Navy

2,420.00

Dr. H. R. Pearsall, Internal Medicine

Public Health

24,829.00

Dr. R. E. Lutz, Chemistry

Public Health

10,000.00

Dr. D. C. Wilson, Psychiatry

Public Health

17,500.00

Dr. S. W. Britton, Physiology

Public Health

4,968.00

Dr. Byrd Leavell, Internal Medicine

Public Health

2,592.00

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Pharmacology

Public Health

9,093.00

Irons and Reynolds Washington, D. C.

Construction Contract

$1,061,500

Stage Decoration and Supply Company Greensboro, North Carolina

Stage Equipment

9,975

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Mears, Smith, Wailes and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Gravatt, Howard and Talbott.

The minutes of the meetings of November 10, 1950 and December 1, 1950, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants.

From the Development Fund of the University for the following purposes:

From the United States Government, in support of research programs under direction of members of the University faculty, for the fiscal year 1950-51, as follows:

Dr. Leland Bradley Snoddy, Professor of Physics, and on the staff of the University since 1933, died November 12, 1950.

The Committee on Resolutions was requested to prepare an appropriate resolution in memory of Dr. Snoddy.

The following resolutions were adopted.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. Robert C. Thompson, Assistant Professor of Dermatology and Syphilology, be and it is hereby accepted as of January 1, 1951. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Mrs. Isabel Shankel, Instructor in Nursing, be and it is hereby accepted as of November 15, 1950.

The following elections were approved.

Dr. Herbert W. Park elected Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and chief of the physical therapy unit at the University Hospital, part-time, at a salary of $1,935 per year, effective December 1, 1950.

Dr. Clayton E. Wheeler elected Assistant Professor of Dermatology, effective February 1, 1951, at a salary of $3,000 from the University, plus a maximum allowance of $5,000 from income from private practice. This is a replacement for Dr. R. C. Thompson.

Miss Alice Mae Auciello elected Instructor in Nursing as of November 15, 1950. This is a replacement for Mrs. Isabel Shankel, who has resigned.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 168, 169, 170 and 171, aggregating $12,786.67, recommended by them for cancellation.

The President reported that he had sent Dr. Lentz a copy of the resolution passed by the Board at its special meeting on December 1 and had had two conferences with him. Dr. Lentz stated that he had discussed the problem of securing another position with the president of the American Hospital Administrators Association, who had advised him that it would be difficult to place him elsewhere if his relationship with the University of Virginia Hospital had been terminated. Dr. Lentz requested that he be carried in some consulting capacity until such time as he could secure another po tion. It was the sense of the Board that there be no change in the resolution as adopted at the special meeting, but that the President be authorized in his discretion to designate Dr. Lentz as a consultant to the Hospital, the President also to reserve the right to terminate such an appointment in his discretion.

The President stated that he and the Dean of the Medical School and the Executive Committee of the Hospital had invited several prospects to the University for consideration for this position and were recommending Dr. R. J. Ackart, at present Assistant Director of the Johns Hopkins Hospital. The President stated that he had had two conferences with Dr. Ackart and had also interviewed other prospects and it was his feeling that Dr. Ackart was the outstanding applicant. He requested authority from the Board to offer Dr. Ackart the position of Director of the University Hospital at an annual salary of $10,000, of which $8,370 would be paid from State funds and the balance from the Rucker endowment for the Hospital. By unanimous resolution the President was so authorized.

The President stated that a great deal of thought had gone into the reorganization of the administration of the Hospital and that Dr. Lippard had made a proposal, in which he concurred, that the Director of the Hospital be responsible to the Dean of the Medical School and that an advisory council be established for the Hospital composed of the heads of the several departments of the Medical School. This council would replace the present Executive Committee of the Hospital and it would function purely in an advisory capacity. In an effort to resolve the many problems of the Hospital a special committee would be established, initially for one year, composed of the President of the University, the Dean of the Medical School, the Director of the Hospital, and the Bursar. This committee would meet monthly and make recommendations to the Board of Visitors concerning general policy matters affecting the University Hospital.

President Darden stated that from information which had come to him it appeared as though the plan for the NCAA annual meeting in Dallas was to expel institutions in non-compliance with regulations and then to amend the rules and permit such institutions to rejoin.

Mr. Gay stated that in accordance with instructions of the Board he had revised the statement prepared by Captain Pritchett for presentation at this meeting, which statement he then read to the Board.

The appropriate time to present this statement and its exact content were discussed at some length. It was the sense of the Board that the content of the statement could best be presented by Captain Pritchett and that the timing and exact content should be left to President Darden, Mr. Gravatt and Captain Pritchett. The President was requested to speak immediately after Captain Pritchett, stating the University's position concerning NCAA regulations.

Mrs. Smith stated that the Virginia Hospital Service Association (Blue Cross) has filed a petition with the State Corporation Commission requesting an increase in rates. The member hospitals have not been consulted concerning these increases in rates and it was her feeling that the proposed rates will in all probability not be adequate to meet the actual costs of the hospitals. She requested that some action be taken by the University in this matter. Mr. Gay stated that he believed a strong case could be presented to the State Corporation Commission if the Virginia Hospital Association would represent its members before the Commission.

It was the sense of the Board that the President be requested to write the Blue Cross Association and ask for information concerning the petition which has been filed with the State Corporation Commissioner, and if possible to determine how the new rates would affect the member hospitals.

Dr. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Mr. Woodward, Dean Alvey and the architects were present for discussion of the following matter.

Dr. Combs stated that on December 14, 1950 sealed bids were received for the construction of the proposed Fine Arts Center and certain equipment. Details of these bids were presented to the Board, and the following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED, by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the President of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to award and execute the following contracts for construction and certain equipment for the proposed Fine Arts Center, which contracts in the opinion of the Board represent the lowest and best bids on this project and have the approval of the architects:

President Combs stated that in October 1949 the Board had approved a bond issue not in excess of $1,000,000 to finance a Fine Arts Center, Student Activities Building and Infirmary. The Finance Committee was requested to study the proposed financing and make recommendations to the Board.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.