Board of Visitors minutes (1951) July 13, 1951
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 13, 1951

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS AND GRANTS RESIGNATIONS LEAVE OF ABSENCE PROMOTIONS ELECTIONS APPOINTMENTS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS MILITARY LEAVE STATUS REQUEST OF GREY ADVERTISING AGENCY PROGRAM FOR MEDICAL TECHNICIANS RESOLUTIONS FROM LAW ALUMNI ASSOCIATION AUGUST BOARD MEETING POLITICAL VIEWS OF NEW FACULTY MEMBERS ACTING DIRECTOR OF ATHLETICS RICHMOND PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTE BAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL'S SCHOOL ATHLETIC COUNCIL BOXING MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS RESIGNATIONS RETIREMENT LEAVE OF ABSENCE CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY TO STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT STUDENT GROUP INSURANCE PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND CLASSROOM BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From The Texas Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the session of 1951-52

$ 1,500.00

From the Rockefeller Foundation, an additional amount for the three-year research program in the thermodynamics of enzyme action, under the direction of Dr. Chalmers L. Gemmill

4,000.00

From departments and agencies of the U. S. Government, for research as follows:

U. S. Air Force, for research in chemistry

$20,000.00

U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for medical research under Dr. Chalmers L. Gemmill

9,158.00

Department of the Army, Office of the Surgeon General, for medical research under Dr. J. F. A. McManus

5,130.00

U. S. Public Health Service, for a cancer training grant to be carried out under the direction of Dr. H. Rowland Pearsall

24,980.00

Department of the Army, Chemical Corps, for research in biochemistry under Dr. Alfred Chanutin

20,000.00

Department of the Army, Office of the Surgeon General, for medical research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin

68,679.00

Department of Commerce, Bureau of Public Roads, for research by the Bureau of Population and Economic Research

10,500.00

Virginians

Non-Virginians

Tuition

$210.00

$450.00

Library Fee

20.00

20.00

Medical Fee

20.00

20.00

Athletic Fee

15.00

15.00

Student Publications Fee

4.00

4.00

Women Students' Association Fee

3.00

3.00

Total

$272.00

$512.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College; Visitors Anderson, Carrington, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Gravatt, Smith, Talbott and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale, Howard, Mears, and Wailes

The minutes of the meeting of June 8, 1951, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The President announced receipt of the following gifts and grants.

Upon recommendation of the President, the following resignations were accepted, and the following leave of absence, promotions, elections, and appointments were approved.

RESOLVED that the resignation of Dr. David Struan Robertson, Assistant Professor of Geology, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1950-51. We wish for him the highest success in his new undertaking

RESOLVED that the resignations of Mrs. Doris Swain, Mrs. Emily M. Smith and Mrs. Mary DeLacey, Instructors in Nursing, be and they are accepted as of June 1, July 1 and August 11, respectively. They have the best wishes of this Board.

RESOLVED that the leave of absence without pay granted to Prof. O. J. Hale for government duty in Germany during 1950-51 be and it is hereby extended for an additional year, without pay.

RESOLVED that Dr. Walter Oscar Klingman, Associate Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, be and he is hereby promoted to Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry as of July 1, 1951

RESOLVED that Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell, Instructor in Internal Medicine, be and he is hereby promoted to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine as of July 1, 1951, at a salary of $6,000 from the University.

Mr. Wesley A. Volk as Acting Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective September 1, at a session salary of $4,500.

Dr. Myron McCall Nichols as Instructor in Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1951, at a salary of $6,700. This is a replacement for Dr. A. P. Booker.

Mr. Emmett H. Anderson, Jr., as Instructor in Romance Language, for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $3,000. This appointment is due to the absence of Professor Duke on military duty for next session.

Mr. Roger Caldwell Davis as Instructor in Architectural Construction for the session of 1951-52, at a session salary of $3,000.

Lt. Colonel Arthur L. Logan as Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective August 13, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Major Charles E. Blue, Jr., USAFR, as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective as of June 21, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Warrant Officer (jg) Lucyan Lada, USAF, as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective June 2, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Major Herbert P. Hartzell as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics in the Transportation Corps Unit, as of June 19, 1951, at no salary from the University.

Captain Graves H. McDowall as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics in the Transportation Corps Unit, effective in the summer of 1951, at no salary from the University.

Captain Robert Kenneth Farst, USAFR, as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1951, at no salary from the University.

Captain Woodrow William Wallis as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1951, at no salary from the University.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules 222, 223 and 224, aggregating $14,888.40, recommended by them for cancellation.

President Darden reported that the State Personnel Office has suggested that the governing boards of State educational institutions take action to give to members of their teaching and research staffs the same status of military leave as was accorded by the Governor to regular State employees covered by the Personnel Act. The Board adopted a resolution extending to the faculty and research staffs of the University on military leave the same rights and privileges which had been extended to State employees by letter of the Governor of July 17, 1950.

The Grey Advertising Agency has requested permission to feature the University of Virginia in a series of advertisements for Samson folding chairs. The request was approved subject to the stipulation that copy be submitted to the President prior to publication

A cooperative program for the training of medical technologists by Mary Washington College and the University of Virginia, leading to the B. S. degree to be awarded by Mary Washington College, was approved. The program has been approved by the Medical Faculty of the University and by the faculty of Mary Washington College. Under this degree program in Medical Technology the curriculum will cover three nine-month winter sessions at Mary Washington College and, beginning in September following the junior year, a period of twelve months at the University. Charges for tuition, room and board, etc., for the three sessions at Mary Washington will be the regular charges as announced in the Mary Washington bulletin. The charges for the fourth year when the student is registered and in attendance at the University of Virginia are as follows:

The Rector stated that he had received a letter from Mr. Tom Michie, President of the Law Alumni Association, together with resolutions adopted at the annual meeting of the Association. The letters and resolutions were read and were received with great sympathy. The President was asked to give these requests consideration in preparing the biennial budget for 1952-54.

A resolution was adopted dispensing with the August meeting of the Board except upon call of the Rector

Mr. Gay presented the question of procedures now followed for investigating the political ideologies of new faculty members and he asked that the President study this matter and make recommendations to the Board. After discussion, the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the President be asked to set forth the procedures now being followed in checking the political ideologies of persons nominated for election to the faculty,

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the President be asked to study this matter and make appropriate recommendations to the Board to improve present practices.

President Darden stated that he believed a report in writing on the procedures now followed should be made and that he would like to examine the matter informally with the presidents of other institutions. In the early fall the presidents of American universities are meeting at Yale, and the President would like to explore the matter with them at that time. He believes he can make a report to the Board on this matter not later than the December meeting.

The President stated that after the Board had completed its hearings on the Woodrow Wilson School, he should like to discuss with the Board his action with respect to the School.

The President was authorized to appoint an Acting Director of the Department of Athletics pending Captain Pritchett's recovery.

The President stated that certain groups in Richmond wished to establish a four-year college at the Richmond Professional Institute. William and Mary desires to sever its relations with R. P. I. William and Mary will in all likelihood offer the school to us and, if we do not accept it, to V. P. I. The President stated that he believed a strong institution should supervise the work of R. P. I. to insure proper standards. Mr. Darden stated that Mr. Zehmer, Director of the Extension Division, feels that we should undertake the management of R. P. I. After considering the matter the Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that this Board is interested in the Richmond Professional Institute and would like a study made of the possibility of R. P. I. being made a division of the University.

Mr. Gay voted against the above resolution.

The question was raised whether or not these scholarships and fellowships could be awarded in the Departments of Education and Engineering. The President presented a letter from Mr. C. Venable Minor, acting Attorney for the University in the absence of Mr. Perkins. Mr. Minor said he thought a broad interpretation of the will would permit the award of these scholarships and fellowships in these departments. In the absence of Mr. Mears, action on this matter was deferred. The Scholarship Committee was directed to its

The President stated that the University had been negotiating with the Judge Advocate General's office concerning the establishment for a three-year period of the Judge Advocate General's School at the University. He requested authority to sign a contract, should the discussions culminate in a proposal for the establishment of a school here. A resolution was adopted authorizing the President to sign such a contract.

Messrs. R. K. Gooch and A. K. Davis, two members of a committee of three appointed by the Academic Faculty to study and make recommendations concerning the control of athletics at the University, appeared before the Board.

Mr. Black stated that the Board was very anxious to develop a workable plan for the control of athletics. Mr. Gay asked, "What was the basis of the faculty's defeat of the proposal for the establishment of an athletic council?" Mr. Davis stated that the answer could be found in the minutes of the Academic Faculty. There were three reasons: (1) The faculty did not feel that it was sufficiently represented, as only two of the proposed eight members were to be elected from the faculty. (2) The second objection was that the two to be selected from the faculty were to be chosen from the General Faculty. The Academic Faculty, representing the College, the largest group in the institution, felt that it was entitled to larger representation. (3) Third, no provision was made in the proposal for liaison between the Academic Faculty and the Council. Mr. Davis also stated that the proposal was presented to the Academic Faculty just one day before it was to be submitted to the Senate for approval. No time was given the Academic Faculty for considering the matter. Hence the Academic Faculty unanimously voted against the proposal and appointed a special committee composed of Professors Gooch, Davis and Finger to appear before the Senate and advocate the defeat of the proposal in the Senate.

Mr. Talbott asked "Can anyone say authoritatively what the Academic Faculty desires?"

Mr. Gooch repeated that the Academic Faculty had appointed a special committee to study the matter and that he believes the committee can prepare a plan which will set forth the views of the Academic Faculty. Mr. Gooch was asked what his personal view was concerning control of athletics. He stated that control should be vested in the faculty subject, of course, to approval by the Board of Visitors. He stated that he believed well-formulated rules for the conduct of athletics should be prepared by the faculty and submitted to the Board for its approval. Mr. Gooch and Mr. Davis then left

The President stated that he felt that the special committee of the Board should work with the Gooch committee of the Academic Faculty in trying to work out a satisfactory proposal. Whereupon the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the President be asked to write the athletic committee of the Academic Faculty and ask them to formulate their recommendations concerning the control of athletics and to submit them to the Board not later than the October meeting; and -

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that should the athletic committee of the Academic Faculty so desire, the Athletic Committee of the Board will meet with them and discuss their recommendations prior to submission to the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Al York coach of boxing, Mr. Hugh Flannagan of the Miller School and Mr. John Simpson, a former member of the boxing team, appeared before the Board.

Mr. York read a letter which he had sent to the Board of Visitors, following which he pointed out the safeguards which had been inaugurated to protect participants in boxing matches, and urged the Board to continue this sport in the University. Mr. Flannagan and Mr. Simpson then made statements advocating the continuance of boxing. Mr. York then read a telegram from Harold Stewart, former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force and a member of the boxing team here in 1930.

Mr. Gay stated that he had read an article in the New York "Times" quoting a brain surgeon stating that a helmet does not provide satisfactory protection. Mr. Anderson stated that he had been greatly influenced by medical testimony and was now convinced that boxing should be abolished. Dr. Emmett stated, "I am not a crusader, but I have discussed boxing with a dozen surgeons, not one of whom favors boxing." President Darden, asked to make a statement, said that he was personally opposed, as he believes it is too dangerous.

A motion was introduced to abolish boxing, which motion was defeated.

Matters pertaining to Mary Washington College were presented by Dr. M. L. Combs, President. The following elections, resignations, retirement and leave of absence were approved.

Miss Ruth Elizabeth Leonard elected Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education and Recreation at a salary of $4,100 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 17, 1951.

Mr. Mark Reese Sumner elected Instructor in Dramatic Arts at a salary of $2,880 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 17, 1951.

Dr. Henrietta Krone, Instructor in History, resigned in order to be near her mother who is in poor health.

Dr. Suzanne Engelmann, Associate Professor of German, resigned in order to return to Germany, her native country, to engage in rehabilitation work.

Nannie Mae Williams, Instructor in Psychology, resigned in order to accept a position as Assistant Coordinator of Teacher Education, Virginia State Department of Education.

Dr. Alice Edwards, Professor of Home Economics, has retired at the age of sixty-nine

RESOLVED that the request of Dr. Kurt F. Leidecker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for an extension of his leave of absence without salary until September, 1952, be and the same is hereby granted.

The State Highway Department wishes to widen Route Number 3 extending west from Fredericksburg to Orange. The College owns property adjacent to this highway. For the purpose of widening this road, it will be necessary for the Highway Department to acquire from the College a strip of land approximately 592 feet in length and about 25 feet in width consisting of 32/100 of an acre. The Highway Department proposes to compensate the College for this strip of land in the amount of $1,200. Dr. Combs stated that the College officials thought this offer was fair. The following resolution was then adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized to convey to the State Highway Department, subject to the approval of the State Legislature, that parcel of land extending approximately 592 feet adjacent to Route 3 and approximately 25 feet deep as shown on Highway blue print, State Project Number 3388-02, Sheet 4 and Sheet 5, for the sum of $1,200.

The matter was referred to the Mary Washington College Committee with power to act.

Dr. Combs reported that on July 11 bids were opened on the proposed Physical Education and Classroom Building. Two bids were submitted. The base bid of Irons and Reynolds was $624,777 and the base bid of Graham Brothers was $654,800. Bids were previously opened on this project on February 9, 1951. At that time the low base bid by Irons and Reynolds was $687,500. It will be seen, therefore, that the low bid this time was $62,723 less than the low bid last February.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and is hereby authorized, subject to the Governor's approval, to enter into a contract with Irons and Reynolds, the low bidder, including Alternate A, in the amount of $622,869 for the construction of the proposed Physical Education and Classroom Building. This bid has the approval of the architects, and in the opinion of the Board represents the lowest and best bid on the project.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.