Board of Visitors minutes (1954) September 10, 1954
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 10, 1954

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

10 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

GIFTS AND GRANTS RESIGNATIONS PROMOTIONS ELECTIONS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS CLASSIFIED SECURITY INFORMATION REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON STUDENT AFFAIRS UNIVERSITY SENATE REPORT RESOLUTION ON DR. EDWIN P. LEHMAN FACULTY SALARIES PROFESSOR GWATHMEY'S LETTER EASEMENT FOR CHARLOTTESVILLE SEWER CLASSIFICATION AS A VIRGINIA STUDENT SPECIAL PAYMENT TO UNIVERSITY'S ATTORNEY UNIVERSITY WORK IN THE CLINCH VALLEY AREA MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS LEAVES OF ABSENCE ELECTIONS ACCOUNT WITH FARMERS AND MERCHANTS STATE BANK COLLEGE STAFF AND ADVISORY SYSTEM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. Austin Kilham, for the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

$ 150.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to be used for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory in Chemistry

10,000.00

From the Texas Company, for a fellowship in Chemistry for the session of 1954-55

2,000.00

From the Richmond Area University Center, for research in various fields

2,084.00

From Parke, Davis and Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the session 1954-55

1,800.00

From various sources, to be added to the Mary C. Milligan Memorial Fund for the Premature Nursery

2,224.50

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, for a scholarship in engineering

410.00

From the W. K. McClure Foundation, for a scholarship in Foreign Affairs

1,200.00

From the General Motors Corporation, for a graduate fellowship in physical chemistry, for the year Sept., 1954, through August, 1955

2,300.00

From the following sources, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Fellowship Fund Helen W. Weyant$500F. J. Daniels200J. Paul Stabler200900.00

Helen W. Weyant

$500

F. J. Daniels

200

J. Paul Stabler

200

900.00

Helen W. Weyant

$500

F. J. Daniels

200

J. Paul Stabler

200

900.00

From the Perry Foundation, to be added to the scholarship fund of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs

150.00

From the estate of the late Mr. W. N. Bagot, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

5,000.00

From the Henry L. and Grace Doherty Foundation, to be added to the scholarship fund of the Woodrow Wilson School of Foreign Affairs

1,000.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, in support of the Medical School

26,551.19

From the Eastman Kodak Company, for a fellowship in physics for the year 1954-55

2,764.00

From the estate of the late L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

2,650.00

From the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation, for a fellowship to Dr. Oscar Thorup for the session of 1954-55

6,000.00

From the American Rose Society, for research at Blandy Farm

600.00

From the Bristol Heart Association, to be added to the Cardiovascular Research Fund

150.00

From the trustees of the Sarah G. Winthrop Fund, to be used for the Law School

200.00

From the American Cyanamid Company, for medical research fellowships

1,200.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Prof. Lawrence Quarles, of the School of Engineering

12,500.00

From the Philadelphia Ordnance District, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. T. I. Crowell

3,887.50

From the U. S. Navy Hydrographic Office, for research under the direction of Prof. S. P. Poole of the Department of Geography

12,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under Dr. A. E. Feller, of the School of Medicine

5,965.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in physics under the direction of Prof. J. W. Beams

6,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research in physics under the direction of Prof. F. L. Hereford

9,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research in chemistry

30,000.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. Alfred Burger

8,448.25

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research in physiology under the direction of Dr. Grover C. Pitts

6,957.00

From the Philadelphia Ordnance District, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. R. E. Lutz

$ 8,825.00

From the Callery Chemical Company, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. T. I. Crowell

2,955.00

From the National Institute of Health, for continued research under the direction of Dr. George Cooper of the School of Medicine

20,736.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc. for research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill, of the School of Medicine

5,076.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill, of the School of Medicine

8,966.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in physics under the direction of Prof. J. W. Beams

9,800.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in Astronomy under the direction of Prof. H. L. Alden

10,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the Medical Faculty

Dr. David C. Wilson

15,000.00

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter

5,778.00

Dr. Alfred Chanutin

13,491.00

Dr. Oscar Swineford

5,713.00

Dr. Alto E. Feller

5,583.00

Helen W. Weyant

$500

F. J. Daniels

200

J. Paul Stabler

200

900.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Howard, McWane, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Talbott. Absent: Miss Wheeler.

The minutes of the meetings of 26 - 27 May and 11 June 1954, as previously distributed to Members, were approved. Mr. Talbott suggested that the substance of testimony heard by the Board in the absence of a stenographer ought to be omitted by the Secretary as far as might be practicable

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following resignations be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. Hans Hoch, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, as of June 15, 1954, to accept a position at the Medical College of Virginia

Miss Mary Walker Randolph, Associate Professor of Nursing Education, as of July 1, 1954, to accept a position at the University of California.

Dr. Gordon C. G. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1954, to go into private practice. He has been on leave of absence for military duty since Nov. 1, 1952

Dr. Robert V. Beeler, Instructor in Opthalmology, as of July 1, 1954, to go into private practice

Mr. John Anthony Walker, Assistant Professor of Drama, as of the end of the session of 1953-54, to accept a position at Michigan State College.

Dr. Edward Valentine Jones, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of Oct. 16, 1954

Mrs. Helen Manders, Instructor in Nursing, as of July 1, 1954

Miss Santina Ciatto, Instructor in Nursing, as of September 1, 1954

Mrs. Sarah Lancaster Johnson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of September 1, 1954.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University that the following promotions in faculty rank be and they are hereby made as noted below

Dr. John Chase, Instructor in Education, to Assistant Professor, at a salary of $4,200 per session, effective in September, 1954

Mr. H. J. Redfield, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Associate Professor, as of Sept., 1954

Mr. Lawrence Greaver, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Drawing, to Associate Professor, as of September, 1954

Mr. Joseph Norwood Bosserman, Acting Assistant Professor of Architecture, to Assistant Professor of Architecture, as of the beginning of the session of 1954-55

Dr. O. K. Campbell, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education and Director of the Extension Center, Wise County, as of September, 1954

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Forrest Hyde, as Lecturer in Business Administration, effective at the beginning of the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $1,000.00

Dr. Wallace McClure, as Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the first semester of the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $1,000.00

Mr. John C. Sheffield, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Education for one year beginning in Sept., 1954, to do extension teaching at a session salary of $4,200

Mr. Calvin Deam, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education to do Extension teaching, for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $4,200.00

Mr. Paul Behrens, as Lecturer in Elementary Education, for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $4,200.00

Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, as Instructor in Biology, to teach in the Extension Center, Wise County, for the session of 1954-55 at a salary of $3,700.00.

Mrs. O. K. Campbell, as Lecturer in Business and Commercial Education in the Extension Center, Wise County, for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $3,000.00

Mr. William L. Wilson, as Acting Assistant Professor of English, to teach in the Extension Center, Wise County, at a salary of $4,200 for the session of 1954-55

Dr. Kenneth Edward Lloyd, as Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective in September at a session salary of $4,200

Dr. Jorge Basadre, as Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $7,500

Dr. Corwin Edwards, as Visiting Professor of Economics for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $8,000.00. This is a replacement for Professor Wright

Mr. Lee R. Johnston, as Assistant Professor of Business Administration for a three and a half year period, beginning Feb. 1, 1955, at a session salary of $5,000.00

Dr. Frank Eugene Taylor, as Instructor in Neurology, effective Sept. 1, 1954, at an annual salary of $7,200.00, to be paid from departmental funds

Mr. David William Weiss, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Drama for the session of 1954-55, at a salary of $4,200.00

Dr. Bernard W. Busse, as Assistant Professor of Music, effective in September, at a session salary of $4,200.00

Mr. Stanley B. Shuman, as Assistant Professor of Geography, effective in September, at a session salary of $4,200.00

Mr. Edward A. Stephenson, as Instructor in English effective in September, 1954, at a session salary of $3,900.00

Dr. William H. Muller, as Professor of Surgery and Chairman of the Department of Surgery, effective at some time during the fall of 1954, to receive $10,000 from State funds and guaranteed $10,000 additional from departmental earnings during the first year. In the second year he will be allowed to make up to a total of $25,000.00

Dr. William H. Sheppe, Jr., as Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1954, at an annual salary of $7,500 to be paid from departmental earnings, which may be increased to $8,000 at the discretion of Dr. Wilson

Dr. William B. Blake, as Instructor in Surgery, as of July 1, 1954, at an annual salary of $6,000, $2,500 of which is to come from the State budget and the remainder from departmental earnings

Mr. Joseph Carroll Vance, as Acting Assistant Professor of History, to teach extension classes in Wise County, effective in September at a session salary of $4,200

Dr. Harrison J. Pemberton, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, effective in September at a session salary of $4,450.00

Mr. Robert C. Jeffrey, as Assistant Professor of Speech, effective in September at a session salary of $4,200.00

Mrs. Evelyn C. Bacon, as Acting Associate Professor of Nursing and Acting Co-Chairman of the Department of Nursing for one year, effective July 6, 1954, at an annual salary of $5,200.00

Miss Annie Laurie Wyant, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective Sept. 1, 1954

Miss Mary Jane Morris, as Instructor in Nursing, effective Sept. 1, 1954

Miss Myra Jean Gilbert, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of Sept. 20, 1954

Mr. Stanley E. Lank, as Part-Time Instructor in Political Science for the session of 1954-55 at a salary of $625.00

Mr. Warren E. Slater, as Part-Time Instructor in Political Science for the session of 1954-55 at a salary of $625.00

Mr. Louis J. Halle, Jr., as Research Professor in Foreign Affairs for one year, beginning Sept. 1, 1954, and ending Aug. 31, 1955, at a salary of $9,000.00, to be paid from special grants

Mr. Jay Broaddus Hubbell, Visiting Professor of English for the session 1954-55 at a salary of $8,000

Mr. Irby Bruclh Cauthen, Jr., Assistant Professor of English at a beginning salary of $4,200

Mr. Charles Weis, as Assistant Professor of English at a beginning salary of $4,500

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 457, 460, 461, 466, 469 and 470, aggregating $43,500.72, recommended by them for cancellation

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the members of the Board, listed as follows - all of them citizens of the United States of America - do not presently require access to classified security information. A. D. Barksdale, Barron F. Black, Whitwell W. Coxe, Miss Belva Tune Dunn, John M. Emmett, J. Segar Gravatt, Horace A. Gray, Jr., Dowell J. Howard, Henry E. McWane, Benjamin W. Mears, Mrs. Herbert McKelden Smith, Howard W. Smith, Frank Talbott, Jr., Miss Lucille Wheeler

Judge Barksdale, Chairman of the Committee on Student Affairs, laid before the Board copies of the following Report, which, at the Rector's request, he read aloud to the Board, as follows

When this Committee was appointed at the request of the President by the Rector at the meeting of the Board of Visitors on May 14, 1954, it was given no special assignment, but was assigned as its general objectives the betterment of student conduct, a study of disciplinary procedures, and the promotion of good relations between the Students of the University and the Administration When the Board met in special session on May 26, 1954, your Chairman was advised by several students that they desired to meet with your Committee. Realizing that the special meeting of the Board would consume that entire day and run into the following day, your Chairman, on the morning of May 27th, advised the spokesman for the students that the Committee would be glad to meet with them that afternoon, May 27th. However, your Chairman was informed that it would be impossible for the students to meet with your Committee that afternoon, but that they would like to appear before the full Board at its June meeting. That evening, May 27th, a mass meeting of students was held, and the seven students who at their request appeared before the Board at its June meeting appeared on the platform and four of them addressed the mass meeting

These seven students appeared before the Board at its meeting on June 11, 1954, and made general statements critical of the Administration and requested an opportunity to support their generalities at a later date. The Rector referred the matter to this Committee, and your Chairman requested the students to prepare and submit a memorandum setting out specifically their criticisms of the Administration and suggesting such changes as in their opinion would be in the best interests of the University. Such a memorandum was mailed to the members of this Committee on July 20th, and a copy has now been furnished to each member of the Board

By agreement, and pursuant to notice, your Committee held a meeting in this room on July 30th, at which seven students, some of whom had appeared before the full Board at the June meeting, appeared, and there was a general discussion of the memorandum prepared by the students. All the members of your Committee were present, with the exception of Honorable Howard W. Smith, whose duties as a Member of Congress made it impossible for him to attend.

Since the meeting of your Committee on July 30th, it has received, or had referred to it, a statement by the Faculty of the School of Education, a statement signed by numerous members of the Faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences, letters from alumni, principals of high schools of the Commonwealth, and friends of the University, as well as editorials from Virginia Gazette and Journal, Richmond News-Leader, Roanoke World News, Charlottesville Progress, Lynchburg News and Daily Advance, Norfolk-Virginian Pilot, Danville Bee, Washington Evening Star, and possibly others

Your Committee held a second meeting on Thursday, September 2, 1954, in this room, at which all members of this Committee were present and heard statements of Mr. Richard R. Fletcher, several students and members of the Faculty. The Committee also discussed the situation with Mr. Darden

It is to be noted that the students who appeared before the Board in June and met with your Committee in July, at no time expressed their complaints and grievances to the President of the University, nor does it appear that they made any effort so to do. It is the firm belief of your Committee that, had the students followed the proper and orderly procedure of presenting their complaints and grievances to the President, as they should have done, an understanding might have been reached which would have prevented the widespread publicity which has resulted

To summarize the complaints and grievances set out by the Student Committee in their memorandum, and those stated at your Committee's meeting with the students, there is first the statement that some cases of student misconduct have been handled solely by the Director of Student Affairs without referring them to the Student Council, which "action provides in part the basis for the fairly widespread criticism by many students that the Director has \`usurped' the powers of the Council." However, only one such case was mentioned, and in that it was admitted that it was a borderline case which might properly have been handled by either the Director or the Council. The Committee stated that they did not subscribe to that criticism, which is not surprising, because in February 1954 the President of the Council, who was in office at the time of the occurrence of the case mentioned, in reporting on his administration, stated that " cooperation from, Mr. Fletcher's office was outstanding." It does not appear to your Committee that there was any serious friction or misunderstanding between the Director of Student Affairs and the Student Council prior to the disgraceful and deplorable incident which occurred on East Lawn on April 4, 1954

The Student Committee thinks it would help the situation if the Student Council were provided an effice in Madison Hall rather than an office adjoining that of the Director of Student Affairs in the Rotunda, that the Student Council should have available the services of a stenographer other than the stenographer in the Director's office, and that the Council should have its own budget rather than being required to apply to the Director for the approval of its expenditures. In the opinion of your Committee, these are purely administrative matters which should be left to the discretion of the Administration

Complaint is made of "an increasing amount of regulation and restriction" on the Student Body. The only "new" regulation mentioned by the students is the rule to be enforced during the coming year that second-year students be required to have the permission of the Director of Student Affairs before being allowed to room in private homes or other independent housing instead of the University dormitories. It appears that this is not a new rule at all but has been in the University catalogues for many years. University control of student housing was implicit in Jefferson's original architectural plan of the "academic village". The principle has been applied throughout the institution's history. As recently as 1949 a committee of the College Faculty recommended that third and fourth year students be permitted to "live in approved rooming accomodations" as a "special right and privilege" signifying "their development and maturity"

The Student Committee recommends the abolition of the office of the Director of Student Affairs and that it be replaced with a "Dean of Men", whose duties should be chiefly to act as counsellor and adviser to the students. Under this proposal, all disciplinary matters would be left entirely to the Student Council. Your Committee strongly recommends that no such action be taken. President Darden delegated broader disciplinary power to the Student Council in 1948 than has ever been enjoyed by any arm of the student body in the history of the University. The Council has made a substantial record of service in certain aspects of student government. It is the belief of your Committee that the office of the Director of Student Affairs is an essential office, and there is nothing to indicate that prior to the East Lawn incident the Director and the Student Council did not work harmoniously and effectively together, and your Committee sees no reason why they should not continue so to do

From a careful consideration of the memorandum of the Student Committee, and the statements of certain members of this committee at their meeting with your Committee, it would seem that the primary purpose of the Student Committee was to challenge the character of Mr. Fletcher, his qualifications and fitness for the office, and to demand his removal. It is the considered opinion of your Committee that the complaints against Mr. Fletcher result to a great extent from his investigation of the East Lawn incident and his recommendations for punishment of those involved, after the matter had been referred to him by the President for investigation and recommendation. This was a terrifically difficult, unpleasant and trying undertaking. The situation was unprecedented. The students involved were numerous, highly regarded, and extremely prominent in the Student Body. While your Committee does not undertake to say that Mr. Fletcher may not have made mistakes in his conduct of this affair, we are satisfied that, at most, they were honest mistakes of judgment and resulted in no injustice to anyone. Even the Chairman of the complaining Student Committee stated to your Committee that the penalties imposed in that case were just. Your Committee is satisfied that Mr. Fletcher is thoroughly honest and a man of high character. As to his qualifications and fitness for the office of Director of Student Affairs, we are entirely willing to accept the President's public expression of confidence in Mr. Fletcher

Adverse criticism of President Darden has been expressed by some members of the Student Committee, specifically, that they do not know what his objectives for the University are, that they apprehend that it is his purpose to tear down and destroy the traditional distinctiveness of the University and make it just another "State U", and to that end, it is his purpose to drive fraternities out of the University. As to Mr. Darden's general aims and objectives for the University, he has shown himself much more capable of expressing himself than your Committee Reference need only be made to his Inaugural Address and his annual reports to the Board of Visitors. However, we feel free to say that we feel no apprehension whatever that Mr. Darden entertains any idea of destroying or tearing down anything that is worthwhile at the University. It is his fervent desire "to continue to edge toward the Jeffersonian ideal of making the University the capstone of public education in Virginia,    ", at the same time preserving the cosmopolitan character of the student body by the admission of a healthy proportion of worthwhile students from the many fine private schools in Virginia, as well as students from other states and other lands.

When President Darden cites Jefferson's conception of the University as the capstone of public education in Virginia, he is saying simply that the public school system can attain its highest excellence and power only with a great University to lead it. Conversely, he believes that the University will achieve its potential strength and greatness only by drawing into its student body the best minds, wherever they may be - whether in private schools or public schools - and without regard to social or economic background.

We believe that President Darden and his faculties have advanced the academic standards and enhanced the quality of every School in the University, including most definitely the College. It is no disparagement of the College itself or of the distinguished professional schools of the University to say, as was said by the Post-War College Committee, that they would all be strengthened by a stronger College. An improvement is beginning to be evident in registration figures which still show, however, that the University draws less numerical and intellectual strength from the public school system than it must do if it is to perform for Virginia the function that it is so superbly qualified and equipped to do. The enlargement of the University's service to the State, its availability to well prepared students from both public and private schools within and without Virginia - more especially to give to all of the State's localities a share and a participation in their University - and a continuing improvement in the quality of instruction offered are the purposes toward which Mr. Darden works

Mr. Darden has no thought of driving fraternities out of the University. While the question of the propriety of social fraternities in a democratic institution of learning may be initially debatable, it is obvious, both to Mr. Darden and your Committee, that for generations fraternities have established themselves as an integral and desirable part of University life

Mr. Darden is not opposed to fraternities or fraternity houses, but he is violently opposed to conduct which reflects discredit upon the student body of the University, instances of which have been connected with activities of fraternities. He regrets the injury that may be done to the University by the dominant control of undergraduate life by any organizations that show themselves more concerned with their own power and prestige than with the best development of their own members and the University's general welfare. We share Mr. Darden's regret that certain fraternities, whose members came to the University with superior preparation, fall far below the average scholastic standing of the institution. No fraternity is justified in placing petty social privileges above the good name of the University, we deplore a recent attack on the Administration, in the autumn of 1953, for its placing of mild curbs on a type of ostentatious public partying that was objected to by the city government of Charlottesville as well as by many of the city's most broad-minded citizens. Your Committee believes that those who resent the requirement of the Administration that conduct in fraternity houses not reflect discredit on the University spread the false report that Mr. Darden is antagonistic to fraternities

Mr. Darden supports the ideal of freedom for the individual student to pursue his own intellectual and social life in the University community to the end that his creative and intellectual powers may be discovered and enhanced, his personality and character enriched and strengthened amidst the rich heritage of tradition and culture which is the priceless possession of this institution. On the other hand, we must all recognize that freedom is not license and that we can enjoy freedom only in the same proportion as we can and will accept responsibility. It is, therefore, the opinion of your Committee that it is the duty of all members of the student body of the University, who treasure the individual freedom enjoyed here, to bring the condemnation of student opinion to bear upon the small minority who, by depraved and crass behavior, whether in fraternity houses, on the lawn, or elsewhere, conduct themselves in a manner which is neither worthy of the fine student body of which they are members, nor of the noble ideals and heritage which is so treasured by this University

It is the opinion of your Committee that a sustained demonstration by the fraternities of a genuine concern for the upgrading of intellectual and social life, of a desire to put the University's good name first at all times - above any special social privileges - would receive from Mr. Darden such enthusiastic cooperation and help as would remove from the mind of the last doubter any suspicion of an unfriendly attitude to fraternities

Your Committee recommends that further consideration be given to the chaperonage of fraternity living. In the absence of further developments calling for it, we share Mr. Darden's reluctance to introduce at the University a system of resident house mothers, despite the widespread success of the system at other institutions. On the other hand we commend the practice of the Beta House in having present at all parties to which young ladies are invited a mature and experienced hostess permanently identified with the fraternity. We believe that this system should be introduced into every fraternity

Absurd rumors have circulated regarding Mr. Darden's plan for the Student Activities Building. This student center was strongly recommended by the Faculty Committee on the Post-War College appointed by President Newcomb. The searching studies and conclusions of this Committee of distinguished professors were supported by later committees appointed by Mr. Darden, who announced in 1950 that he had accepted the original Report as his "administrative blueprint" for the College Mr. Darden printed and distributed 25,000 copies of this announcement to faculty, alumni, and students. The Board has approved the building both in purpose and design. So far as we can learn, every person connected with the planning for the Student Activities Building is a fraternity member and friendly to fraternities, and there is not the slightest danger of its injuring any legitimate fraternity activity

In planning this building, Mr. Darden and the faculty wish to create within the University opportunities for social life and recreation entirely independent of and supplementary to membership in any particular social organization, as stated in the faculty reports on the College. To this end Mr. Darden has labored to secure the construction of a student activities center wherein all students, fraternity and non-fraternity alike, may find opportunity for wholesome recreation and healthy, ample food at a modest cost. The opposition to this building that has come from some of the fraternity membership he believes to be either narrowly selfish or misinformed. It is certainly unwarranted

Mr. Darden assumed the office of President of this University at a particularly trying time. What he has accomplished in the short space of time which has elapsed since then, is amazing. To anyone who is at all familiar with the situation, it is obvious that there has been a tremendous improvement in the University during Mr. Darden's regime. Ordinarily, it would seem uncalled for to do so, but in view of the widespread publicity which has been given to minor complaints against the Administration, we deem it not inappropriate to report that we are heartily in accord with Mr. Darden's aims and objectives for this University, and that we applaud his successful efforts for its improvement

Although we regret that the Student Committee did not in the first instance present their complaints and grievances in an orderly fashion to the President of the University, rather than presenting them directly to the Board of Visitors and your Committee, and although, as appears from this report, we differ almost entirely with their views and recommendations, yet we share Mr. Darden's hope that the time will never come when students of this University may not criticise freely either the Administration or the Board of Visitors

In concluding this report this Committee recommends that the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University adopt resolutions to the following effect.

1\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors reaffirm their complete confidence in the President of the University and its administration

2\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors are in full accord with the objectives of the President as set forth in this report and hereby direct the President to carry them out as the established policy of the Board of Visitors

3\. Long established policy of the University is committed to the existence and encouragement of fraternities in the University, with which policy the President and the Board are in accord. The differences between the administration and the fraternities lie in the field of discipline and deportment. The President is directed, after consultation with such members of the administration, the faculty, and fraternity leaders as he deems appropriate, to make and enforce such rules and regulations as may be requisite to correct these difficulties. The Board would deem it a wholesome, helpful and steadyinginfluence if faculty members of fraternities affiliated themselves more closely with the activities of their respective fraternities

4\. I laces of residence of the students in surroundings conducive to studious habits are a matter of vital concern in the educational aims of the University, and the resident is directed to see that the regulations with respect thereto are observed

5\. The functions performed by the Director of Student Affairs are varied, numerous, disagreeable and often unrelated. The duties of this office should be clearly defined and delimited in writing and his activities confined thereto.

6\. It is suggested that the President give consideration to a reorganization of the Student Council with a view to harmonious cooperation between the Administration and the Council.

In conclusion the Board desires to emphasize that the University of Virginia is a state institution supported by all the taxpayers of Virginia, and its operations and objectives must at all times conform to the public interest. It is the desire of the Board so to direct its policies as to accord students all the freedom consistent with gentlemanly conduct, good moral behaviour and reasonably studious habits. It is intended that the restrictions on student habits and conduct be as simple and few as consistent with these objectives. We would like them impressed on students and prospective students in order that those who feel disinclined to observe these simple standards may seek more congenial conditions elsewhere.

The Rector expressed the appreciation of the Board for the thoroughness of the Committee's work and the admirable tone of the Report, Judge Barksdale emphasized the help he had received from the other members of his Committee in their painstaking work during the summer and the care and thought they had devoted to the preparation of the resulting Report.

In the discussion that followed, the Report was praised by other members of the Board, and four minor changes were suggested. Mr. Coxe moved the deletion of the final clause in line 4, page 7, "...and resulted in no injustice to anyone." This motion was defeated by a vote of 7 to 6. Voting affirmatively were Visitors Coxe, Dunn, Gray, Mears, Mrs. Smith, and Talbott. Voting negatively were Visitors Barksdale, Black, Emmett, Gravatt, Howard, McWane and Mr. Smith

Mr. Talbott moved the adoption of the following clause to be added to the top of page 14: "...and we think it unjustified that certain public comments have failed to give the Student Committee credit for constructive effort." This motion was defeated, 7 to 4, as follows Affirmative: Visitors Coxe, Gray, Mears, and Talbott, Negative. Visitors Barksdale, Black, Emmett, Gravatt, Howard, McWane, and Mr. Smith, not voting: Visitors Dunn and Mrs. Smith.

Mr. Black suggested the addition of a reference to Alumni in the final sentence on page 14 regarding faculty participation in fraternity affairs, but withdrew it upon being reminded by a member of the Committee that had heard the appeals of May 12th-13th that a distinction between mature and immature Alumni could hardly be made in the Report.

Mrs. Smith observed that Section number 5 on page 15 appeared to have the effect of trimming Mr. Fletcher down and reducing his activities. Was this really the intention of the Committee? Members of the Committee denied any such intention, explaining that the sole purpose of the section was to protect Mr. Fletcher and his counselling function from the adverse effects of his being called on by other University officers to collect bursar's fees or library fines. Mrs. Smith proposed that the section be revised to make that fact clear, but withdrew the proposal on the ground that the waiting newspaper reporters would probably interpret any change in the Report as an effort to weaken it in regard to Mr. Fletcher, whereas the adoption of the Report without change would have the opposite effect.

Duly moved and seconded, the Report was thereupon approved and adopted without change by a vote of 13 to 0.

The Board then resolved that the Secretary be directed to send copies of the Report to all members of the Faculty and to the Alumni Association and its active chapters, that he be directed to provide copies to all interested persons requesting them, and that he be authorized to make the files of the Committee available for examination by persons asking to see them.

The Rector laid before the Board the following items, copies of which had previously been filed with the Secretary and distributed to Board Members. (1) Report, adopted on 12 March 1954 by the University Senate, of The Committee of the University Senate, formed in February, 1954, for the purpose of studying the Constitution and functions of the University Senate, (2) Excerpt from the Senate minutes of 30 May 1935, and (3) Draft dated 9 August 1954 of the Rector's proposed reply to the Senate Report of March 12th.

The Rector then read to the Board the following paragraph, which he wished to add as an amendment to his draft of August 9th, at the top of page 8.

"However, the faculty and Board minutes do reveal the fact that on November 27, 1917, when the Board held its meeting at which Professor Whipple was dismissed, it had before it a faculty resolution severly condemning Professor Whipple, adopted three days before by a faculty vote of 63 to 0. Professor R. H. Wilson by invitation appeared before the Board and spoke to the members in support of Professor Whipple's retention. Professor Wilson's position was that while he did not agree with the pacifist sentiments espoused by Professor Whipple, yet he thought that a mistake would be made to dismiss Professor Whipple because it might be construed as a step calculated to suppress the right of free speech. Thus it appears to us that even in this instance and under the stress of the times, the Board availed itself of consultation with the faculty."

The Board approved by unanimous vote the Rector's draft of August 9th, as amended by the foregoing paragraph, and resolved that it be sent by the Rector to the Senate as an expression of the opinion of the full Board.

Dr. Emmett read to the Board and moved the adoption of the following statement in memory of the late Dr. Edwin P. Lehman

"Dr. Edwin Partridge Lehman who was born December 9, 1886, died in Boston, Mass., on May 27, 1954. He was enroute to a class reunion at Williams College.

"Dr. Lehman retired in June, 1953, as Professor of Surgery and Chairman of the Department of Gynecology and Surgery at the University of Virginia School of Medicine. He had been associated as Professor of Surgery at the University for twenty-five years. Dr. Lehman received his academic education at Williams College. He graduated in medicine from Harvard University in the Class of 1914. He served as a medical officer in the First World War with the B.E.F. His graduate training in surgery was at Peter Brent Brigham Hospital in Boston and later he went through the entire residency program at Washington University. In 1926 and 1927 he was Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery at Washington University and Assistant Surgeon at Barnes Hospital. He had a progressive responsibility in the teaching of surgery at Washington University and in the various hospitals in the City of St. Louis.

"As Professor of Surgery at the University of Virginia, Dr. Lehman maintained and imparted to his students a splendid interest in surgical research and surgical pathology. He will be remembered in the State also because of his interest in the treatment and study of cancer. He was an early Director of the State Division of the American Society for the Control of Cancer. Later he became Director of the Cancer Foundation. Dr. Lehman served as President of the American Cancer Society in 1947 and 1948. He was the founder of the McIntire Tumor Clinic at the University of Virginia and a Director of the Clinic for many years.

"Dr. Lehman was honored by memberships in many of the Medical and Surgical Societies in America and abroad.

"Dr. Lehman's contribution to surgical research through his teachings and writings established for him an eminent place in the history of his profession."

By unanimous vote the Board adopted the Resolution, and directed the Secretary to record its text upon the permanent Minutes of the Board and send a copy to Mrs. Lehman.

The Rector read to the Board a letter written by Mr. Stuart Campbell, on behalf of the Law School Association, urging action to increase the salaries of members of the Law Faculty. There ensued a discussion of the salary problem in all the schools of the University in the light of rising living costs, of the new Alumni Fund organization and its prospects, and of the potentialities of annual gifts for the supplementing of salaries. Reference was also made to the State funds that might be made available for salaries at the discretion of the Governor. The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the adequacy of University salaries is a factor vital to the morale of the staff, to the strength of all the University's schools, and to the institution's usefulness to the Commonwealth; that the retention on the University staff of the abler teachers is continuing to be threatened by rising living costs, by the steadily increasing earnings of non-teaching professional men outside of the University, and by the frequent invitations to the abler teachers to leave the University for more remunerative employment elsewhere; that increasing difficulty is experienced in attracting to the University's employment men of high calibre to replace distressing losses by death and resignation; that many members continue on the staff for no other reason than their love for the University and their dedication to its work, an attitude deserving of all possible encouragement and of promotion by all practicable forms of financial relief,

RESOLVED further that, it being the understanding of this Board that certain contingent funds are at present available to the Governor of the Commonwealth for his disposition within his discretion, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Governor of Virginia be and he is hereby respectfully petitioned by this Board to release at the earliest practicable date the maximum possible portion of available funds for the supplementing of faculty salaries during the current year.

The Rector laid before the Board a letter from Professor Allan T. Gwathmey commenting on the University's athletic policies and requesting permission to appear before the Board with Professor B. F. D. Runk to make a further statement. During the discussion that followed, it was pointed out the Board has reason to expect that the University Senate will shortly appoint a committee of faculty members to discuss this matter with the Board. It was thereupon resolved that, out of respect to the Senate, the Rector should decline Professor Gwathmey's request, and suggest that he take the matter up with the Senate.

President Darden presented to the Board a request from the City of Charlottesville for an easement to permit construction of a six-inch sanitary sewer from the property leased by the city as a filter plant to a connection with an existing eight-inch sewer line. Following a discussion of the project, which had previously been studied and approved by the University's Special Counsel and by the Consulting Engineer and Director of New Construction, the following Resolution was adopted

RESOLVED, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia grant to the City of Charlottesville an easement for a six inch (6′) sanitary sewer across the lands of the University of Virginia between that portion of said lands leased by the University of Virginia to said City of Charlottesville as a filter plant and the west stands of Scott Stadium, lying on the east slope of Observatory Mountain and on the west of the west stands of said Stadium, and that the proper officers of this corporation be and they hereby are authorized and directed to execute and deliver a deed to said City of Charlottesville granting such easement; said easement being granted pursuant to the authority vested in The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by Chapter 296 of the Acts of Assembly of 1954.

The President read to the Board a report from Professor Charles P. Nash, Chairman of the Faculty Committee on the Virginia Status of University Students, proposing a clarification of the rules defining Virginia students. After discussion, it was resolved that the following regulations shall be in force hereafter, governing classification of students as Virginia students

In order to be considered a Virginia student for any given semester, it is necessary that the applicant shall have been domiciled in the State of Virginia for at least one year immediately preceding the beginning of that semester, and the applicant or his parents must have been bona fide taxpayers to the State of Virginia for the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year of registration.

If the applicant is over twenty-one years of age, in addition to the requirements of the preceding paragraph for classification as a Virginia student, he must be eligible at the time of registration to become a registered voter in Virginia. (Section 24 of the Constitution of Virginia provides that "No officer, soldier, seaman, or marine of the United States Army or Navy shall be deemed to have gained a residence as to the right of suffrage in the State by reason of being stationed therein, nor shall a student in any institution of learning be regarded as having either gained or lost a residence, as to the right of suffrage, by reason of his location or sojourn in such institution.")

Residence in the State for the purpose of securing an education does not qualify an individual for classification as a Virginia student

President Darden laid before the Board reports from Mr. C. Venable Minor, the University's Special Counsel, covering the completion of his work in connection with the Mattie Brooke Beall estate and his work in regard to the recent increase in telephone rates, which will raise the University's annual telephone bill by upwards of $7,000.00 a year. The President also exhibited bills from Mr. Minor for $241.13 and for $319.57, respectively, for the extra time he had spent and the costs he had incurred in connection with the Beall estate and the telephone rate increase. The Board resolved that both bills be paid

President Darden gave a brief report on the progress that has been made towards the expansion of the University's former extension work in Wise County, and nearby areas, so as to provide college work on the Lower Division or junior college level in a relatively isolated region of Virginia where greatly increased numbers of students will be graduated from the high schools during the next decade. The initiative, the President reported, has come largely from the citizens of Wise County, who sent a delegation to the University last winter to appeal for assistance in creating under University auspices a junior college which they wished to name the Clinch Valley Branch of the University. The Wise County citizens subsequently obtained an appropriation of $5,000 from the General Assembly of Virginia to advance the project. They have also secured a building, and have raised local subscriptions of $17,000

Two types of work are contemplated: (1) Courses in Education and related subjects required for the certification of teachers, and (2) Credit and non-credit college courses conforming to University standards. All the proposed credit courses would be set up subject to the review and approval of the Chairman of the Department concerned at the University as regards the subject matter, instructors, and the laboratory and library facilities required. This work is already in process by University departments, and the entire project is recommended by a Faculty Committee working with Professor George B. Zehmer, Director of the Extension Division

President Darden also requested authority to set the tuition fees for the present year in accordance with recommendations by Professor Zehmer and Mr. Shea, the University Comptroller

During the discussion that followed, the proposed title for the project ("Clinch Valley Branch") was questioned, and members proposed that the experimental status of the enterprise should be emphasized at present, so that it could be ascertained whether or not it will be practicable to carry on in Wise County academic work worthy of the University, and acceptable to the academic standards of the University's established Colleges at Charlottesville and Fredericksburg. The principle of faculty consultation was also stressed, with the thought that the faculty at Charlottesville should be consulted on all aspects of the plan short of the actual determination of University policy to undertake undergraduate work at places in Virginia other than Charlottesville and Fredericksburg

The Board resolved that the title, "Clinch Valley Branch", not be used for the present, but that the President be authorized to continue with extension work in Wise County, to proceed with the offering of the courses contemplated as for University credit, in consultation with the faculty, treating the project as experimental for a period of one year, and employing the title, "Clinch Valley Extension Center" or "Wise County Extension Center"

The Board resolved further that the President be authorized to establish fees for the present year at his discretion after consultation with Professor Zehmer and Mr. Shea

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Dr. Kurt F. Leidecker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Mary Washington College, for leave of absence without pay for the second semester of the session of 1954-55, to accept an assignment with the State Department, be and it is hereby granted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Dr. Michael Erdelyi, Professor of Psychology at Mary Washington College, for leave of absence without pay for the session of 1954-55, to continue work in Austria under a Fullbright grant, be and it is hereby granted

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

DR. REGINALD WILBUR WHIDDEN, Assistant Dean and Professor of English at Mary Washington College, salary $7,140.00 for period of twelve months, incumbency to begin August 1, 1954

MISS KATHERINE FRANCES MORAN, Assistant Dean of Women at Mary Washington College, salary $4,400.00 for period of twelve months, incumbency to begin September 1, 1954.

MISS DOROTHY MAYBERRY SMITH, Assistant Dean of Women at Mary Washington College, salary $4,400.00 for period of twelve months, incumbency to begin September 1, 1954

MRS. GERALDINE LADD, Residence Counselor and Instructor in French at Mary Washington College, salary $3,240.00 for session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 1, 1954

MRS. CORNELIA DAVIDSON OLIVER, Residence Counselor and Instructor in Art at Mary Washington College, salary $3,240.00 for session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 1, 1954.

MISS LUCY MCIVER TIMMERMAN, Residence Counselor and Instructor in Psychology at Mary Washington College, salary $3,240.00 for session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 1, 1954.

The President laid before the Board correspondence from Mr. Woodward, Bursar of the College, forwarding a request from the First and Merchants National Bank in Richmond, Virginia, for an escrow agreement covering the pledging of bonds by the Farmers and Merchants State Bank in Fredericksburg, Virginia, to secure deposits of State funds by Mary Washington College

The Board resolved that the matter be referred to the Finance Committee, with authority to place the following Resolution into full force and effect if it be approved by the Committee, the Chairman to report back to the Board at the October meeting if the plan is disapproved by the Committee

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Bursar of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to execute an Escrow Agreement with the First and Merchants National Bank in Richmond, Virginia, covering the pledging of bonds by the Farmers and Merchants State Bank, Fredericksburg, Virginia, to secure the deposits of Mary Washington College in the latter bank which deposits represent funds belonging to the State of Virginia, and,

Be it Further Resolved, that the Bursar of Mary Washington College be authorized to arrange for increases or decreases in the securities held, to agree to substitution and to release the bonds held under the Escrow Agreement if and when the accounts should be closed.

President Darden commented on the recent complaints of several maintenance workers at the College, and discussed the promising new plan, now being put into operation, to substitute for the non-teaching hostesses in the College dormitories members of the faculty, who will serve in an advisory capacity to the students

On motion the meeting was then adjourned

When this Committee was appointed at the request of the President by the Rector at the meeting of the Board of Visitors on May 14, 1954, it was given no special assignment, but was assigned as its general objectives the betterment of student conduct, a study of disciplinary procedures, and the promotion of good relations between the Students of the University and the Administration When the Board met in special session on May 26, 1954, your Chairman was advised by several students that they desired to meet with your Committee. Realizing that the special meeting of the Board would consume that entire day and run into the following day, your Chairman, on the morning of May 27th, advised the spokesman for the students that the Committee would be glad to meet with them that afternoon, May 27th. However, your Chairman was informed that it would be impossible for the students to meet with your Committee that afternoon, but that they would like to appear before the full Board at its June meeting. That evening, May 27th, a mass meeting of students was held, and the seven students who at their request appeared before the Board at its June meeting appeared on the platform and four of them addressed the mass meeting

These seven students appeared before the Board at its meeting on June 11, 1954, and made general statements critical of the Administration and requested an opportunity to support their generalities at a later date. The Rector referred the matter to this Committee, and your Chairman requested the students to prepare and submit a memorandum setting out specifically their criticisms of the Administration and suggesting such changes as in their opinion would be in the best interests of the University. Such a memorandum was mailed to the members of this Committee on July 20th, and a copy has now been furnished to each member of the Board

By agreement, and pursuant to notice, your Committee held a meeting in this room on July 30th, at which seven students, some of whom had appeared before the full Board at the June meeting, appeared, and there was a general discussion of the memorandum prepared by the students. All the members of your Committee were present, with the exception of Honorable Howard W. Smith, whose duties as a Member of Congress made it impossible for him to attend.

Since the meeting of your Committee on July 30th, it has received, or had referred to it, a statement by the Faculty of the School of Education, a statement signed by numerous members of the Faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences, letters from alumni, principals of high schools of the Commonwealth, and friends of the University, as well as editorials from Virginia Gazette and Journal, Richmond News-Leader, Roanoke World News, Charlottesville Progress, Lynchburg News and Daily Advance, Norfolk-Virginian Pilot, Danville Bee, Washington Evening Star, and possibly others

Your Committee held a second meeting on Thursday, September 2, 1954, in this room, at which all members of this Committee were present and heard statements of Mr. Richard R. Fletcher, several students and members of the Faculty. The Committee also discussed the situation with Mr. Darden

It is to be noted that the students who appeared before the Board in June and met with your Committee in July, at no time expressed their complaints and grievances to the President of the University, nor does it appear that they made any effort so to do. It is the firm belief of your Committee that, had the students followed the proper and orderly procedure of presenting their complaints and grievances to the President, as they should have done, an understanding might have been reached which would have prevented the widespread publicity which has resulted

To summarize the complaints and grievances set out by the Student Committee in their memorandum, and those stated at your Committee's meeting with the students, there is first the statement that some cases of student misconduct have been handled solely by the Director of Student Affairs without referring them to the Student Council, which "action provides in part the basis for the fairly widespread criticism by many students that the Director has \`usurped' the powers of the Council." However, only one such case was mentioned, and in that it was admitted that it was a borderline case which might properly have been handled by either the Director or the Council. The Committee stated that they did not subscribe to that criticism, which is not surprising, because in February 1954 the President of the Council, who was in office at the time of the occurrence of the case mentioned, in reporting on his administration, stated that " cooperation from, Mr. Fletcher's office was outstanding." It does not appear to your Committee that there was any serious friction or misunderstanding between the Director of Student Affairs and the Student Council prior to the disgraceful and deplorable incident which occurred on East Lawn on April 4, 1954

The Student Committee thinks it would help the situation if the Student Council were provided an effice in Madison Hall rather than an office adjoining that of the Director of Student Affairs in the Rotunda, that the Student Council should have available the services of a stenographer other than the stenographer in the Director's office, and that the Council should have its own budget rather than being required to apply to the Director for the approval of its expenditures. In the opinion of your Committee, these are purely administrative matters which should be left to the discretion of the Administration

Complaint is made of "an increasing amount of regulation and restriction" on the Student Body. The only "new" regulation mentioned by the students is the rule to be enforced during the coming year that second-year students be required to have the permission of the Director of Student Affairs before being allowed to room in private homes or other independent housing instead of the University dormitories. It appears that this is not a new rule at all but has been in the University catalogues for many years. University control of student housing was implicit in Jefferson's original architectural plan of the "academic village". The principle has been applied throughout the institution's history. As recently as 1949 a committee of the College Faculty recommended that third and fourth year students be permitted to "live in approved rooming accomodations" as a "special right and privilege" signifying "their development and maturity"

The Student Committee recommends the abolition of the office of the Director of Student Affairs and that it be replaced with a "Dean of Men", whose duties should be chiefly to act as counsellor and adviser to the students. Under this proposal, all disciplinary matters would be left entirely to the Student Council. Your Committee strongly recommends that no such action be taken. President Darden delegated broader disciplinary power to the Student Council in 1948 than has ever been enjoyed by any arm of the student body in the history of the University. The Council has made a substantial record of service in certain aspects of student government. It is the belief of your Committee that the office of the Director of Student Affairs is an essential office, and there is nothing to indicate that prior to the East Lawn incident the Director and the Student Council did not work harmoniously and effectively together, and your Committee sees no reason why they should not continue so to do

From a careful consideration of the memorandum of the Student Committee, and the statements of certain members of this committee at their meeting with your Committee, it would seem that the primary purpose of the Student Committee was to challenge the character of Mr. Fletcher, his qualifications and fitness for the office, and to demand his removal. It is the considered opinion of your Committee that the complaints against Mr. Fletcher result to a great extent from his investigation of the East Lawn incident and his recommendations for punishment of those involved, after the matter had been referred to him by the President for investigation and recommendation. This was a terrifically difficult, unpleasant and trying undertaking. The situation was unprecedented. The students involved were numerous, highly regarded, and extremely prominent in the Student Body. While your Committee does not undertake to say that Mr. Fletcher may not have made mistakes in his conduct of this affair, we are satisfied that, at most, they were honest mistakes of judgment and resulted in no injustice to anyone. Even the Chairman of the complaining Student Committee stated to your Committee that the penalties imposed in that case were just. Your Committee is satisfied that Mr. Fletcher is thoroughly honest and a man of high character. As to his qualifications and fitness for the office of Director of Student Affairs, we are entirely willing to accept the President's public expression of confidence in Mr. Fletcher

Adverse criticism of President Darden has been expressed by some members of the Student Committee, specifically, that they do not know what his objectives for the University are, that they apprehend that it is his purpose to tear down and destroy the traditional distinctiveness of the University and make it just another "State U", and to that end, it is his purpose to drive fraternities out of the University. As to Mr. Darden's general aims and objectives for the University, he has shown himself much more capable of expressing himself than your Committee Reference need only be made to his Inaugural Address and his annual reports to the Board of Visitors. However, we feel free to say that we feel no apprehension whatever that Mr. Darden entertains any idea of destroying or tearing down anything that is worthwhile at the University. It is his fervent desire "to continue to edge toward the Jeffersonian ideal of making the University the capstone of public education in Virginia,    ", at the same time preserving the cosmopolitan character of the student body by the admission of a healthy proportion of worthwhile students from the many fine private schools in Virginia, as well as students from other states and other lands.

When President Darden cites Jefferson's conception of the University as the capstone of public education in Virginia, he is saying simply that the public school system can attain its highest excellence and power only with a great University to lead it. Conversely, he believes that the University will achieve its potential strength and greatness only by drawing into its student body the best minds, wherever they may be - whether in private schools or public schools - and without regard to social or economic background.

We believe that President Darden and his faculties have advanced the academic standards and enhanced the quality of every School in the University, including most definitely the College. It is no disparagement of the College itself or of the distinguished professional schools of the University to say, as was said by the Post-War College Committee, that they would all be strengthened by a stronger College. An improvement is beginning to be evident in registration figures which still show, however, that the University draws less numerical and intellectual strength from the public school system than it must do if it is to perform for Virginia the function that it is so superbly qualified and equipped to do. The enlargement of the University's service to the State, its availability to well prepared students from both public and private schools within and without Virginia - more especially to give to all of the State's localities a share and a participation in their University - and a continuing improvement in the quality of instruction offered are the purposes toward which Mr. Darden works

Mr. Darden has no thought of driving fraternities out of the University. While the question of the propriety of social fraternities in a democratic institution of learning may be initially debatable, it is obvious, both to Mr. Darden and your Committee, that for generations fraternities have established themselves as an integral and desirable part of University life

Mr. Darden is not opposed to fraternities or fraternity houses, but he is violently opposed to conduct which reflects discredit upon the student body of the University, instances of which have been connected with activities of fraternities. He regrets the injury that may be done to the University by the dominant control of undergraduate life by any organizations that show themselves more concerned with their own power and prestige than with the best development of their own members and the University's general welfare. We share Mr. Darden's regret that certain fraternities, whose members came to the University with superior preparation, fall far below the average scholastic standing of the institution. No fraternity is justified in placing petty social privileges above the good name of the University, we deplore a recent attack on the Administration, in the autumn of 1953, for its placing of mild curbs on a type of ostentatious public partying that was objected to by the city government of Charlottesville as well as by many of the city's most broad-minded citizens. Your Committee believes that those who resent the requirement of the Administration that conduct in fraternity houses not reflect discredit on the University spread the false report that Mr. Darden is antagonistic to fraternities

Mr. Darden supports the ideal of freedom for the individual student to pursue his own intellectual and social life in the University community to the end that his creative and intellectual powers may be discovered and enhanced, his personality and character enriched and strengthened amidst the rich heritage of tradition and culture which is the priceless possession of this institution. On the other hand, we must all recognize that freedom is not license and that we can enjoy freedom only in the same proportion as we can and will accept responsibility. It is, therefore, the opinion of your Committee that it is the duty of all members of the student body of the University, who treasure the individual freedom enjoyed here, to bring the condemnation of student opinion to bear upon the small minority who, by depraved and crass behavior, whether in fraternity houses, on the lawn, or elsewhere, conduct themselves in a manner which is neither worthy of the fine student body of which they are members, nor of the noble ideals and heritage which is so treasured by this University

It is the opinion of your Committee that a sustained demonstration by the fraternities of a genuine concern for the upgrading of intellectual and social life, of a desire to put the University's good name first at all times - above any special social privileges - would receive from Mr. Darden such enthusiastic cooperation and help as would remove from the mind of the last doubter any suspicion of an unfriendly attitude to fraternities

Your Committee recommends that further consideration be given to the chaperonage of fraternity living. In the absence of further developments calling for it, we share Mr. Darden's reluctance to introduce at the University a system of resident house mothers, despite the widespread success of the system at other institutions. On the other hand we commend the practice of the Beta House in having present at all parties to which young ladies are invited a mature and experienced hostess permanently identified with the fraternity. We believe that this system should be introduced into every fraternity

Absurd rumors have circulated regarding Mr. Darden's plan for the Student Activities Building. This student center was strongly recommended by the Faculty Committee on the Post-War College appointed by President Newcomb. The searching studies and conclusions of this Committee of distinguished professors were supported by later committees appointed by Mr. Darden, who announced in 1950 that he had accepted the original Report as his "administrative blueprint" for the College Mr. Darden printed and distributed 25,000 copies of this announcement to faculty, alumni, and students. The Board has approved the building both in purpose and design. So far as we can learn, every person connected with the planning for the Student Activities Building is a fraternity member and friendly to fraternities, and there is not the slightest danger of its injuring any legitimate fraternity activity

In planning this building, Mr. Darden and the faculty wish to create within the University opportunities for social life and recreation entirely independent of and supplementary to membership in any particular social organization, as stated in the faculty reports on the College. To this end Mr. Darden has labored to secure the construction of a student activities center wherein all students, fraternity and non-fraternity alike, may find opportunity for wholesome recreation and healthy, ample food at a modest cost. The opposition to this building that has come from some of the fraternity membership he believes to be either narrowly selfish or misinformed. It is certainly unwarranted

Mr. Darden assumed the office of President of this University at a particularly trying time. What he has accomplished in the short space of time which has elapsed since then, is amazing. To anyone who is at all familiar with the situation, it is obvious that there has been a tremendous improvement in the University during Mr. Darden's regime. Ordinarily, it would seem uncalled for to do so, but in view of the widespread publicity which has been given to minor complaints against the Administration, we deem it not inappropriate to report that we are heartily in accord with Mr. Darden's aims and objectives for this University, and that we applaud his successful efforts for its improvement

Although we regret that the Student Committee did not in the first instance present their complaints and grievances in an orderly fashion to the President of the University, rather than presenting them directly to the Board of Visitors and your Committee, and although, as appears from this report, we differ almost entirely with their views and recommendations, yet we share Mr. Darden's hope that the time will never come when students of this University may not criticise freely either the Administration or the Board of Visitors

In concluding this report this Committee recommends that the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University adopt resolutions to the following effect.

1\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors reaffirm their complete confidence in the President of the University and its administration

2\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors are in full accord with the objectives of the President as set forth in this report and hereby direct the President to carry them out as the established policy of the Board of Visitors

3\. Long established policy of the University is committed to the existence and encouragement of fraternities in the University, with which policy the President and the Board are in accord. The differences between the administration and the fraternities lie in the field of discipline and deportment. The President is directed, after consultation with such members of the administration, the faculty, and fraternity leaders as he deems appropriate, to make and enforce such rules and regulations as may be requisite to correct these difficulties. The Board would deem it a wholesome, helpful and steadyinginfluence if faculty members of fraternities affiliated themselves more closely with the activities of their respective fraternities

4\. I laces of residence of the students in surroundings conducive to studious habits are a matter of vital concern in the educational aims of the University, and the resident is directed to see that the regulations with respect thereto are observed

5\. The functions performed by the Director of Student Affairs are varied, numerous, disagreeable and often unrelated. The duties of this office should be clearly defined and delimited in writing and his activities confined thereto.

6\. It is suggested that the President give consideration to a reorganization of the Student Council with a view to harmonious cooperation between the Administration and the Council.

In conclusion the Board desires to emphasize that the University of Virginia is a state institution supported by all the taxpayers of Virginia, and its operations and objectives must at all times conform to the public interest. It is the desire of the Board so to direct its policies as to accord students all the freedom consistent with gentlemanly conduct, good moral behaviour and reasonably studious habits. It is intended that the restrictions on student habits and conduct be as simple and few as consistent with these objectives. We would like them impressed on students and prospective students in order that those who feel disinclined to observe these simple standards may seek more congenial conditions elsewhere.

When this Committee was appointed at the request of the President by the Rector at the meeting of the Board of Visitors on May 14, 1954, it was given no special assignment, but was assigned as its general objectives the betterment of student conduct, a study of disciplinary procedures, and the promotion of good relations between the Students of the University and the Administration When the Board met in special session on May 26, 1954, your Chairman was advised by several students that they desired to meet with your Committee. Realizing that the special meeting of the Board would consume that entire day and run into the following day, your Chairman, on the morning of May 27th, advised the spokesman for the students that the Committee would be glad to meet with them that afternoon, May 27th. However, your Chairman was informed that it would be impossible for the students to meet with your Committee that afternoon, but that they would like to appear before the full Board at its June meeting. That evening, May 27th, a mass meeting of students was held, and the seven students who at their request appeared before the Board at its June meeting appeared on the platform and four of them addressed the mass meeting

These seven students appeared before the Board at its meeting on June 11, 1954, and made general statements critical of the Administration and requested an opportunity to support their generalities at a later date. The Rector referred the matter to this Committee, and your Chairman requested the students to prepare and submit a memorandum setting out specifically their criticisms of the Administration and suggesting such changes as in their opinion would be in the best interests of the University. Such a memorandum was mailed to the members of this Committee on July 20th, and a copy has now been furnished to each member of the Board

By agreement, and pursuant to notice, your Committee held a meeting in this room on July 30th, at which seven students, some of whom had appeared before the full Board at the June meeting, appeared, and there was a general discussion of the memorandum prepared by the students. All the members of your Committee were present, with the exception of Honorable Howard W. Smith, whose duties as a Member of Congress made it impossible for him to attend.

Since the meeting of your Committee on July 30th, it has received, or had referred to it, a statement by the Faculty of the School of Education, a statement signed by numerous members of the Faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences, letters from alumni, principals of high schools of the Commonwealth, and friends of the University, as well as editorials from Virginia Gazette and Journal, Richmond News-Leader, Roanoke World News, Charlottesville Progress, Lynchburg News and Daily Advance, Norfolk-Virginian Pilot, Danville Bee, Washington Evening Star, and possibly others

Your Committee held a second meeting on Thursday, September 2, 1954, in this room, at which all members of this Committee were present and heard statements of Mr. Richard R. Fletcher, several students and members of the Faculty. The Committee also discussed the situation with Mr. Darden

It is to be noted that the students who appeared before the Board in June and met with your Committee in July, at no time expressed their complaints and grievances to the President of the University, nor does it appear that they made any effort so to do. It is the firm belief of your Committee that, had the students followed the proper and orderly procedure of presenting their complaints and grievances to the President, as they should have done, an understanding might have been reached which would have prevented the widespread publicity which has resulted

To summarize the complaints and grievances set out by the Student Committee in their memorandum, and those stated at your Committee's meeting with the students, there is first the statement that some cases of student misconduct have been handled solely by the Director of Student Affairs without referring them to the Student Council, which "action provides in part the basis for the fairly widespread criticism by many students that the Director has \`usurped' the powers of the Council." However, only one such case was mentioned, and in that it was admitted that it was a borderline case which might properly have been handled by either the Director or the Council. The Committee stated that they did not subscribe to that criticism, which is not surprising, because in February 1954 the President of the Council, who was in office at the time of the occurrence of the case mentioned, in reporting on his administration, stated that " cooperation from, Mr. Fletcher's office was outstanding." It does not appear to your Committee that there was any serious friction or misunderstanding between the Director of Student Affairs and the Student Council prior to the disgraceful and deplorable incident which occurred on East Lawn on April 4, 1954

The Student Committee thinks it would help the situation if the Student Council were provided an effice in Madison Hall rather than an office adjoining that of the Director of Student Affairs in the Rotunda, that the Student Council should have available the services of a stenographer other than the stenographer in the Director's office, and that the Council should have its own budget rather than being required to apply to the Director for the approval of its expenditures. In the opinion of your Committee, these are purely administrative matters which should be left to the discretion of the Administration

Complaint is made of "an increasing amount of regulation and restriction" on the Student Body. The only "new" regulation mentioned by the students is the rule to be enforced during the coming year that second-year students be required to have the permission of the Director of Student Affairs before being allowed to room in private homes or other independent housing instead of the University dormitories. It appears that this is not a new rule at all but has been in the University catalogues for many years. University control of student housing was implicit in Jefferson's original architectural plan of the "academic village". The principle has been applied throughout the institution's history. As recently as 1949 a committee of the College Faculty recommended that third and fourth year students be permitted to "live in approved rooming accomodations" as a "special right and privilege" signifying "their development and maturity"

The Student Committee recommends the abolition of the office of the Director of Student Affairs and that it be replaced with a "Dean of Men", whose duties should be chiefly to act as counsellor and adviser to the students. Under this proposal, all disciplinary matters would be left entirely to the Student Council. Your Committee strongly recommends that no such action be taken. President Darden delegated broader disciplinary power to the Student Council in 1948 than has ever been enjoyed by any arm of the student body in the history of the University. The Council has made a substantial record of service in certain aspects of student government. It is the belief of your Committee that the office of the Director of Student Affairs is an essential office, and there is nothing to indicate that prior to the East Lawn incident the Director and the Student Council did not work harmoniously and effectively together, and your Committee sees no reason why they should not continue so to do

From a careful consideration of the memorandum of the Student Committee, and the statements of certain members of this committee at their meeting with your Committee, it would seem that the primary purpose of the Student Committee was to challenge the character of Mr. Fletcher, his qualifications and fitness for the office, and to demand his removal. It is the considered opinion of your Committee that the complaints against Mr. Fletcher result to a great extent from his investigation of the East Lawn incident and his recommendations for punishment of those involved, after the matter had been referred to him by the President for investigation and recommendation. This was a terrifically difficult, unpleasant and trying undertaking. The situation was unprecedented. The students involved were numerous, highly regarded, and extremely prominent in the Student Body. While your Committee does not undertake to say that Mr. Fletcher may not have made mistakes in his conduct of this affair, we are satisfied that, at most, they were honest mistakes of judgment and resulted in no injustice to anyone. Even the Chairman of the complaining Student Committee stated to your Committee that the penalties imposed in that case were just. Your Committee is satisfied that Mr. Fletcher is thoroughly honest and a man of high character. As to his qualifications and fitness for the office of Director of Student Affairs, we are entirely willing to accept the President's public expression of confidence in Mr. Fletcher

Adverse criticism of President Darden has been expressed by some members of the Student Committee, specifically, that they do not know what his objectives for the University are, that they apprehend that it is his purpose to tear down and destroy the traditional distinctiveness of the University and make it just another "State U", and to that end, it is his purpose to drive fraternities out of the University. As to Mr. Darden's general aims and objectives for the University, he has shown himself much more capable of expressing himself than your Committee Reference need only be made to his Inaugural Address and his annual reports to the Board of Visitors. However, we feel free to say that we feel no apprehension whatever that Mr. Darden entertains any idea of destroying or tearing down anything that is worthwhile at the University. It is his fervent desire "to continue to edge toward the Jeffersonian ideal of making the University the capstone of public education in Virginia,    ", at the same time preserving the cosmopolitan character of the student body by the admission of a healthy proportion of worthwhile students from the many fine private schools in Virginia, as well as students from other states and other lands.

When President Darden cites Jefferson's conception of the University as the capstone of public education in Virginia, he is saying simply that the public school system can attain its highest excellence and power only with a great University to lead it. Conversely, he believes that the University will achieve its potential strength and greatness only by drawing into its student body the best minds, wherever they may be - whether in private schools or public schools - and without regard to social or economic background.

We believe that President Darden and his faculties have advanced the academic standards and enhanced the quality of every School in the University, including most definitely the College. It is no disparagement of the College itself or of the distinguished professional schools of the University to say, as was said by the Post-War College Committee, that they would all be strengthened by a stronger College. An improvement is beginning to be evident in registration figures which still show, however, that the University draws less numerical and intellectual strength from the public school system than it must do if it is to perform for Virginia the function that it is so superbly qualified and equipped to do. The enlargement of the University's service to the State, its availability to well prepared students from both public and private schools within and without Virginia - more especially to give to all of the State's localities a share and a participation in their University - and a continuing improvement in the quality of instruction offered are the purposes toward which Mr. Darden works

Mr. Darden has no thought of driving fraternities out of the University. While the question of the propriety of social fraternities in a democratic institution of learning may be initially debatable, it is obvious, both to Mr. Darden and your Committee, that for generations fraternities have established themselves as an integral and desirable part of University life

Mr. Darden is not opposed to fraternities or fraternity houses, but he is violently opposed to conduct which reflects discredit upon the student body of the University, instances of which have been connected with activities of fraternities. He regrets the injury that may be done to the University by the dominant control of undergraduate life by any organizations that show themselves more concerned with their own power and prestige than with the best development of their own members and the University's general welfare. We share Mr. Darden's regret that certain fraternities, whose members came to the University with superior preparation, fall far below the average scholastic standing of the institution. No fraternity is justified in placing petty social privileges above the good name of the University, we deplore a recent attack on the Administration, in the autumn of 1953, for its placing of mild curbs on a type of ostentatious public partying that was objected to by the city government of Charlottesville as well as by many of the city's most broad-minded citizens. Your Committee believes that those who resent the requirement of the Administration that conduct in fraternity houses not reflect discredit on the University spread the false report that Mr. Darden is antagonistic to fraternities

Mr. Darden supports the ideal of freedom for the individual student to pursue his own intellectual and social life in the University community to the end that his creative and intellectual powers may be discovered and enhanced, his personality and character enriched and strengthened amidst the rich heritage of tradition and culture which is the priceless possession of this institution. On the other hand, we must all recognize that freedom is not license and that we can enjoy freedom only in the same proportion as we can and will accept responsibility. It is, therefore, the opinion of your Committee that it is the duty of all members of the student body of the University, who treasure the individual freedom enjoyed here, to bring the condemnation of student opinion to bear upon the small minority who, by depraved and crass behavior, whether in fraternity houses, on the lawn, or elsewhere, conduct themselves in a manner which is neither worthy of the fine student body of which they are members, nor of the noble ideals and heritage which is so treasured by this University

It is the opinion of your Committee that a sustained demonstration by the fraternities of a genuine concern for the upgrading of intellectual and social life, of a desire to put the University's good name first at all times - above any special social privileges - would receive from Mr. Darden such enthusiastic cooperation and help as would remove from the mind of the last doubter any suspicion of an unfriendly attitude to fraternities

Your Committee recommends that further consideration be given to the chaperonage of fraternity living. In the absence of further developments calling for it, we share Mr. Darden's reluctance to introduce at the University a system of resident house mothers, despite the widespread success of the system at other institutions. On the other hand we commend the practice of the Beta House in having present at all parties to which young ladies are invited a mature and experienced hostess permanently identified with the fraternity. We believe that this system should be introduced into every fraternity

Absurd rumors have circulated regarding Mr. Darden's plan for the Student Activities Building. This student center was strongly recommended by the Faculty Committee on the Post-War College appointed by President Newcomb. The searching studies and conclusions of this Committee of distinguished professors were supported by later committees appointed by Mr. Darden, who announced in 1950 that he had accepted the original Report as his "administrative blueprint" for the College Mr. Darden printed and distributed 25,000 copies of this announcement to faculty, alumni, and students. The Board has approved the building both in purpose and design. So far as we can learn, every person connected with the planning for the Student Activities Building is a fraternity member and friendly to fraternities, and there is not the slightest danger of its injuring any legitimate fraternity activity

In planning this building, Mr. Darden and the faculty wish to create within the University opportunities for social life and recreation entirely independent of and supplementary to membership in any particular social organization, as stated in the faculty reports on the College. To this end Mr. Darden has labored to secure the construction of a student activities center wherein all students, fraternity and non-fraternity alike, may find opportunity for wholesome recreation and healthy, ample food at a modest cost. The opposition to this building that has come from some of the fraternity membership he believes to be either narrowly selfish or misinformed. It is certainly unwarranted

Mr. Darden assumed the office of President of this University at a particularly trying time. What he has accomplished in the short space of time which has elapsed since then, is amazing. To anyone who is at all familiar with the situation, it is obvious that there has been a tremendous improvement in the University during Mr. Darden's regime. Ordinarily, it would seem uncalled for to do so, but in view of the widespread publicity which has been given to minor complaints against the Administration, we deem it not inappropriate to report that we are heartily in accord with Mr. Darden's aims and objectives for this University, and that we applaud his successful efforts for its improvement

Although we regret that the Student Committee did not in the first instance present their complaints and grievances in an orderly fashion to the President of the University, rather than presenting them directly to the Board of Visitors and your Committee, and although, as appears from this report, we differ almost entirely with their views and recommendations, yet we share Mr. Darden's hope that the time will never come when students of this University may not criticise freely either the Administration or the Board of Visitors

In concluding this report this Committee recommends that the Rector and Board of Visitors of the University adopt resolutions to the following effect.

1\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors reaffirm their complete confidence in the President of the University and its administration

2\. That the Rector and Board of Visitors are in full accord with the objectives of the President as set forth in this report and hereby direct the President to carry them out as the established policy of the Board of Visitors

3\. Long established policy of the University is committed to the existence and encouragement of fraternities in the University, with which policy the President and the Board are in accord. The differences between the administration and the fraternities lie in the field of discipline and deportment. The President is directed, after consultation with such members of the administration, the faculty, and fraternity leaders as he deems appropriate, to make and enforce such rules and regulations as may be requisite to correct these difficulties. The Board would deem it a wholesome, helpful and steadyinginfluence if faculty members of fraternities affiliated themselves more closely with the activities of their respective fraternities

4\. I laces of residence of the students in surroundings conducive to studious habits are a matter of vital concern in the educational aims of the University, and the resident is directed to see that the regulations with respect thereto are observed

5\. The functions performed by the Director of Student Affairs are varied, numerous, disagreeable and often unrelated. The duties of this office should be clearly defined and delimited in writing and his activities confined thereto.

6\. It is suggested that the President give consideration to a reorganization of the Student Council with a view to harmonious cooperation between the Administration and the Council.

In conclusion the Board desires to emphasize that the University of Virginia is a state institution supported by all the taxpayers of Virginia, and its operations and objectives must at all times conform to the public interest. It is the desire of the Board so to direct its policies as to accord students all the freedom consistent with gentlemanly conduct, good moral behaviour and reasonably studious habits. It is intended that the restrictions on student habits and conduct be as simple and few as consistent with these objectives. We would like them impressed on students and prospective students in order that those who feel disinclined to observe these simple standards may seek more congenial conditions elsewhere.