Board of Visitors minutes (1955) January 13, 1955
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 13, 1955

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 6:30 p.m. in the Dogwood Room of the University Commons, at Charlottesville, in an informal dinner conference with representatives of the University's School of Law. Board members present were the Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gray, Howard, McWane, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Gravatt and Mears. Present from the School of Law were the Dean, F. D. G. Ribble, and Professors Leslie H. Bucker, Charles O. Gregory, Emerson G. Spies, and Charles K. Woltz

Informal reports were made by Dean Ribble and the other professors present on current developments and progress of the Law School, its library, and its extension services to the state. There followed a general discussion of the geographical range of the School and of the peculiar problems of legal education, with particular reference to educational standards and to the practice of law as a profession

The meeting was adjourned at 10:00 p.m.