Board of Visitors minutes (1956) June 16, 1956
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 16, 1956

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

13 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MEETINGS SCHEDULED FOR 1956-1957 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD SPECIAL COMMITTEES ACTIVE AS OF JUNE 1956 GIFTS AND GRANTS RETIREMENTS ELECTIONS RE-ELECTIONS APPOINTMENTS MILITARY APPOINTMENTS PROMOTIONS RESIGNATIONS LEAVES OF ABSENCE CANCELLATION OF ELECTION UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS MR. SHEA PRESENT UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS BUDGET FOR 1956-1957 ADOPTED MR. SHEA ABSENT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ARCHITECT WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBERSHIP IN GOVERNING BOARDS ASSOCIATION NURSING DEPARTMENT TUITION FEES INCREASED ADMISSIONS EXAMINATIONS LONGWOOD AND MADISON COLLEGES EXTFNSION DIVISION - DEAN ZEHMER'S ILLNESS PRINCESS ANNE PROPERTY OFFER ROY C. MOYSTON ESTATE RILEY PROPERTY OFFER NORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE SITE EAST RANGE HOUSE ASSIGNED TO DEAN FITZ PATRICK PHI DELTA THETA REQUEST TO LEASE LOT CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER FACULTY SALARIES SUMMER APPOINTMENTS NEGRO STUDENT'S APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGE POSTPONED MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS PROMOTIONS MEETINGS SCHEDULED FOR 1956-1957 BUDGET ADOPTED ACTION ON NEGRO STUDENTS' APPLICATION DEFERRED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Executive Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. Smith

Finance Committee

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Berkeley

Mr. McWane

Mary Washington College Committee

Mr. Smith, Chairman

Mr. Howard

Mrs. Jones

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Athletics Committee

Mr. Berkeley, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Gravatt

Dr. Pollock

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Greear

Dr. Martin

Mr. McWane

Mrs. Smith

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith, Chairman

Judge Bryan

Col. Hartfield

Mr. McWane

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Greear

Col. Hartfield

Committee on Outlying Real Estate

Mr. Gray, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Jones

Committee for Named Professorships

Col. Hartfield, Chairman

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Gravatt

Committee for the School of Education

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Dr. Pollock

Miss Wheeler

Committee to Choose a Site for the Northern Virginia College

Judge Bryan, Chairman

Mr. Howard

Mr. McWane

From the Seven Society, for the University Artist Series

$77.77

From Mr. John L. Pratt, for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory

20,000.00

From Mr. John Puryear, for the Hospital

250.00

From Mrs. Nannie V. Howard, for the Estes Vaughan Howard Scholarship

250.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Bernard W. N. Bagot, to be added to the endowment fund of the University

1,990.11

From the Westinghouse Educational Foundation, for the Westinghouse Achievement Scholarship in electrical engineering for the 1956-57 session

500.00

From Mr. Roy R. Charles, to be added to the University Scholarship Fund

1,000.00

From the Carnegie Institute in Washington, for a fellowship in physics for the 1956-57 session

1,750.00

From the Sperry Rand Corporation, for two undergraduate scholarships in aeronautical, electrical or mechanical engineering, or physics

1,500.00

From the estate of the late Dr. Stephen H. Watts, to be added to the Stephen Watts Surgery Fund

25,875.68

From an anonymous donor, for the Children's Convalescent Home and the Virginia Quarterly Review, securities valued at

10,542.00

From the Burlington Industries Foundation, an unrestricted donation

100.00

From the Virginia Hearing Foundation, for a graduate assistantship in the Speech and Hearing Clinic for the 1956-57 session

625.00

From the Alumni Association, for the School of Engineering

250.00

From the Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following:

Faculty salaries - College and Graduate

8,335.02

Alderman Library

612.83

Scholarship Fund

1,800.00

Restoration of Chapel

518.16

Miscellaneous

175.00

Medical School

9,025.17

Medical Library

213.00

Medical School Building Fund

100.00

From the following sources, for the purchase of an electronic microscope: (NO PUBLICITY)

Alumni Board of Trustees

10,000.00

Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr.

5,486.21

Mrs. Jennings C. Wise

5,000.00

Mr. Robert Jeffress

600.00

From the estate of the late Mary L. Holcombe, to establish the Edward

$5,683.93

Watts Holcombe Scholarship

From the Alumni Board of Trustees, for the following:

Coolidge Law Library

1,000.00

Fuller Law Library

2,093.72

Piedmont Housing Project

32,500.00

Chemistry Library

750.00

Engineering Library

900.00

Cameron Scholarship Fund

300.00

Epes Scholarship Fund

250.00

Roper Scholarship Fund

250.00

Seldon Scholarship Fund

500.00

Sarah Seward Scholarship Fund

250.00

Simon Seward Scholarship Fund

250.00

Watts Scholarship Fund

250.00

From the estate of the late Mr. L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

2,233.34

From Mr. Barron F. Black, a contribution to the University of Virginia Magazine

100.00

From Engineering Alumni, to be added to the Corporate Program of the General Electric Educational and Charitable Fund

480.00

From the General Electric Educational and Charitable Fund, a contribution equal to those received under the General Electric Corporate Alumnus Program

570.00

From the Charlottesville and Albemarle Cerebral Palsy Association, for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

714.84

From the Radio Corporation of America, an undesignated gift for cooperating with RCA in the "Tuition and Refund Plan" for its employees enrolled in the University

100.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research in Chemistry under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole

30,000.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in physics under the direction of Prof. J. W. Beams

14,600.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. R. E. Lutz

10,692.00

From the Fund for the Republic, Inc., to support the program of summer research in civil liberties topics in the field of municipal law

3,500.00

From the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America for continued research in pharmacology under the direction of Dr. C. L. Gemmill

6,912.00

From the Department of the Army, for continued research under the direction of Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau, Dept. of Physics

6,000.00

Present tuition

$100

Proposed tuition

180

The annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr., President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson, Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Greear, Hartfield, Howard, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitor Gray.

The minutes of the meeting of 14 April 1956, previously distributed, were approved.

Subject to the Resolution adopted by the Board on 24 September 1955, the Secretary noted that regular meetings during 1956-57 will fall on the following dates. October 13th, December 8th, February 9th, April 13th (at Fredericksburg), and June 8th.

The Board elected to the Executive Committee Mr. Talbott, Mr. Berkeley, and Mr. Smith, and the Rector appointed the other standing committees for 1956-57, as follows

The Rector announced the following special committees, which will remain in being until their assigned tasks have been completed.

In announcing the following gifts and grants, the President commented on Mr. John L. Pratt's gift to the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory as an example of his notable generosity. There were warm expressions of appreciation from the Visitors, and the Board resolved that the Rector be requested to convey the Visitors' gratitude to Mr. Pratt.

President Darden announced to the Board the retirements of five men who have served the University for an aggregate of 171 years. He spoke of the varied and valuable services of Mr. Ferguson, who was Dean of the College from 1934 to 1946, and of Mr. Jones, who has served the University for 41 years, adding that he believed that a letter from the Rector would be especially appreciated by Mr. Ferguson

The Visitors joined in expressions of esteem for the long and devoted services of these gentlemen, and the Board resolved that the Rector write a special letter of appreciation to retiring faculty members in any cases that might seem to him appropriate for such action.

Dr. George Oscar Ferguson, Jr., Professor of Psychology and Registrar of the University, retired at the end of the session of 1955-56. He has been on the faculty since 1922, serving as Assistant Dean of the College from 1926 to 1934 and Dean of the College from 1934 to 1946.

Mr. Leslie Hepburn Buckler, James Monroe Professor of Law, retired at the end of the session of 1955-56. He has been on the faculty since 1929.

Mr. Richard Chapin Jones, Professor of Forestry, retired as of the end of the session of 1955-56. He has been connected with the University since 1915.

Mr. Fontaine Allen Wells, Instructor in Mathematics, retired at the end of the present session. He had been on the staff since 1922.

Mr. M. A. J. Barlow, Professor of Commerce and Business Administration, retired as of the end of the session of 1955-56. He has been on the staff of the University since 1921.

We wish for them many years of happiness in their retirement.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty -

Dr. William F. Battig as Assistant Professor of Psychology for three years, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Richard Paul Goblirsch as Instructor in Mathematics, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,750.

Mrs. Virginia Edwards as Assistant Nursing Arts Instructor, as of May 12, 1956.

Mr. James H. Bash as Instructor in Education, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,000.

Mr. Stanley John Zyniewski as Acting Assistant Professor of History for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $5,000. This is a replacement for Mr. Thomas Hammond.

Dr. Oscar R. Rodig as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry for the session of 1956-57, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Mac Sawyer Hammond as Instructor in English, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,250.

Mr. Lawrence Leon Reid as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. David H. Davis as Instructor in Music, as of September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,250.

Dr. Ralph Purcell as Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $6,500. This is a replacement for Dr. Leng.

Dr. Walter L. Heilbronner as Assistant Professor of German for three years, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Marvin Tummins as Associate Professor of Commerce, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $6,600.

Mr. Billy Joe Gilpin as Assistant Professor of Mathematics in the School of Engineering for a period of three years, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Dr. Randolph T. Major as Acting Professor of Chemistry, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a session salary of $2,766.67.

Mr. Elliott Evans Cheatham as Visiting Professor of Law for the first semester of the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $4,000.

Miss Betty Booker as Assistant Professor of Nursing as of August 20, 1956, at an annual salary of $3,936.

Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology as of July 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $8,000, to be paid from departmental funds.

Dr. Donald Walter Kupke as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry for a period of three years, as of September 1, 1956, at a salary of $6,400 per annum.

Mr. Herman Hedberg Hobbs as Instructor in Physics, beginning in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,000.

Mr. F. St. George Higginson as Lecturer in Architecture for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $6,000.

Mr. William B. Avcock as Visiting Professor of Law for the session of 1956-57 at a salary of $9,300.

Mr. Marion K. Kellogg as Lecturer in Law, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,000.

Dr. Nuzet Atuk as Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of July 1, 1956, at a salary of $6,000 per year, to be paid from the cardiology teaching funds.

Mr. John A. Bell, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Law for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $5,400.

Mr. Thomas V. Monahan as Lecturer in Law for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $1,500.

Mr. Walter D. Fletcher as Lecturer in Law as of September, 1956, at a compensation of $500.

Mr. Charles A. Horsky as Lecturer in Law, as of September, 1956, at a compensation of $500.

Mr. George F. Trowbridge as Lecturer in Law, as of September, 1956, at a compensation of $500.

Mr. Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr., as Acting Associate Professor of English for the session of 1956-57 at a salary of $6,600.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected, their original appointments having expired.

Mr. Richard Scott Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective in September, 1956.

Mr. A. W. Zelomek, Visiting Professor in the Graduate School of Business, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $5,500.

Mr. A. C. Murdaugh, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $4,000.

Mr. S. Walter Washington, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $4,000.

Mr. Rouhollah Ramazani, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $3,600.

Mr. Richard William Barron, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, part-time, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $1,000.

Mr. Louis J. Halle, Jr., Research Professor in Foreign Affairs, beginning in September, 1956, for two years, at a session salary of $5,000. (He will be on leave in the session of 1956-57. See section on Leaves of Absence.)

Mr. O. A. Gianniny, Jr., Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, for the session of 1956-57, at a salary of $5,000.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following appointments be and they are hereby made -

Mr. Benjamin Franklin Dewees Runk, Professor of Biology, as Registrar of the University, effective July 1, 1956.

Dr. Joseph Lee Vaughan, Professor of English in the School of Engineering, as Provost of the University, effective July 1, 1956.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointments:

Lieutenant Robert L. Smith as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1956, at no salary from the University.

Captain Robert P. Carter as Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics, effective in the summer of 1956, at no salary from the University.

Lieut. (jg) Russell S. Cowell as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1956, at no salary from the University.

Lieut. Col. Thomas A. Lindley as Professor of Military Science and Tactics in the summer of 1956, at no salary from the University.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made -

Dr. Almarin Phillips, Visiting Assistant Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, to Associate Professor, as of September, 1956, for a period of five years.

Dr. Marvin Leonard Colker, Instructor in Classics, to Assistant Professor of Classics for three years, effective in September, 1956.

Dr. Benjamin F. D. Runk, Associate Professor of Biology, to Professor of Biology, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Associate Professor of Chemistry, to Professor of Chemistry, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Parker C. Griffin, Instructor in Romance Languages, to Assistant Professor of Romance Languages for a period of three years, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Charles Murrah, Instructor in English, to Assistant Professor of English for a period of three years, as of September, 1956.

Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Assistant Professor of History, to Associate Professor of History, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Cecil Alan Hutchinson, Assistant Professor of History, to Associate Professor of History, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Warren Lounsbury Smith, Assistant Professor of Money and Banking, to Associate Professor, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Raymond Smith Edmundson, Associate Professor of Geology, to Professor of Geology, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Edwin Earl Floyd, Associate Professor of Mathematics, to Professor of Mathematics, as of September, 1956.

Mr. Charles W. Smith, Associate Professor of Art, to Professor of Art, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Edward Eugene Younger, Associate Professor of History, to Professor of History, as of September, 1956.

Mr. Robert Edward Lee Gildea, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, to Professor of Civil Engineering, as of September, 1956.

Mr. Neill Herbert Alford, Jr., Associate Professor of Law, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1956.

Mr. Martin L. Cowen, Associate Professor of Law, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1956.

Dr. Evan G. Pattishall, Jr., Assistant Professor of Educational Research, to Associate Professor, as of September, 1956.

Mr. George Madison Maverick, Visiting Professor of Business Administration, to Professor of Business Administration, part-time, beginning in September, 1956.

Mr. Clarence E. Schwartz, Jr., Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Engineering for two years as of September, 1956.

Dr. Wesley A. Volk, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, to Associate Professor, as of July 1, 1956.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted -

Mr. Edwin Clare McClintock, Associate Professor of English in the School of Engineering, as of the end of the session of 1955-56, to accept a position at the University of Illinois.

Mr. John Kerry King, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, as of the end of the session of 1955-56, to accept a government position.

Mr. John S. Belew, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, as of the end of the session of 1955-56.

Mr. Cummins E. Speakman, Jr., Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, as of the end of the session of 1955-56.

Mr. Ben Joseph DeLuca, Lecturer in Education, part-time, as of the end of the session of 1955-56, to take a position with a publishing company in Boston.

Dr. Allan Mounter, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, as of September 1, 1956, to take a position at the Medical College of Virginia.

Dr. John E. Deverall, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, as of the end of the session of 1955-56, to take a position at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

Dr. James C. Mace, Professor of Electrical Engineering, as of August 1, 1956.

Mrs. Evelyn C. Bacon, Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, as of September 1, 1956.

Dr. David C. Wilson, Professor of Psychiatry and Neurology, as of July 1, 1956.

Dr. Walter R. Stern, Instructor in Clinical Pathology, as of July 1, 1956.

Miss Vera Frances Hampton, Instructor in Psychiatric Nursing, as of June 30, 1956.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay -

Mr. Daniel Rutledge Vining, Professor of Statistics and Economics, for the session of 1956-57 to accept a Ford Foundation fellowship.

Mr. Louis J. Halle, Jr., Research Professor in Foreign Affairs, for the session of 1956-57 to accept appointment as Professor at the Graduate Institute of International Studies at Geneva, Switzerland.

Mr. Donald Lee Reid, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for the session of 1956-57 to study at Princeton. He has received a National Science Foundation fellowship.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following election be and it is hereby cancelled:

Mr. Alonzo W. Kenion, Instructor in English, who was elected at the April 14, 1956, meeting of the Board. He has decided not to accept the position.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 602, 604, 606, 607, 611, 614 and 615, aggregating $69,014.55, as recommended by it.

After a discussion of the charged off accounts, the Rector requested the Medical Committee to inquire into the problem of uncollectible accounts, to see if everything possible was being done, and report back to the Board, and the President was asked to follow up on the matter in cooperation with the Medical Committee.

Mr. Shea, the Comptroller of the University, appeared before the Board to present the unpaid student accounts summarized by the Accounts Committee as Schedules 6 and 7. Mr. Shea explained that these are the final accounts of the Veterans' group described in his letter of 24 January 1956 which appears in the Board Minutes of 4 February 1956.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Committee on Student Accounts be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 6 and 7, aggregating $39,702.92, as recommended by it.

Copies of the proposed Budget for 1956-1957 having been laid before the Board by the Finance Committee, the Comptroller presented a Budget Summary, which was ordered to be filed with these minutes. Mr. Shea pointed out that increased enrollments, rental fees, appropriations, and gifts make the estimated revenues for the year 1956-57 higher by about $700,000 than the revenues for the current year, with increased expenditures devoted largely to filling vacant and new teaching positions in expanding departments. Total revenues are estimated at $7,932,960, and expenditures at $7,823,290, with a surplus of $109,670.

After discussion the Board resolved to adopted the Budget for 1956-57 as presented.

The President discussed briefly the problem of architectural planning for the Clinch Valley College at Wise, and proposed the employment of Mr. Charles B. McElroy to assist in this work.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to employ Mr. McElroy and also to employ a consultant if he should find it necessary to do so.

President Darden pointed out that the University pays annual membership dues of $275.00 in the Association of Governing Boards of State Universities and Allied Institutions, an organization in whose activities our Visitors have not found it practicable to participate.

The Board resolved that the University withdraw from membership in the Association of Governing Boards of State Universities and Allied Institutions.

President Darden presented the following letter from the Comptroller.

The committee which you recently appointed to study the program in the Department of Nursing thought that the tuition in the Department should be increased to that obtaining in the College of Arts and Sciences, effective with the 1957-58 session.

After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition fee in the Department of Nursing be and it is hereby increased from one hundred dollars ($100.00) to one hundred eighty dollars ($180.00), effective for the session of 1957-1958.

The President inaugurated a discussion of the University's needs for standard entrance examinations applicable to Virginians as well as to out of state students. Mr. Darden said that his deans and their admissions officers were all favorable to such a plan. Members praised the College Board examinations as given by the Princeton agency, but agreed with the President that it would be well to discuss with the Governor a plan for a state-wide testing agency which might be administered at less cost to the student.

President Darden reported that President Lankford of Longwood College and President Miller of Madison College had proposed to him that consideration be given to the possibility of working out a plan whereby the two colleges could become affiliated with the University. The conversations had been very tentative, Mr. Darden said, and he did not wish to pursue the matter further until he knew (1) the attitude of the Visitors toward his studying possible plans of association, and (2) the attitude of the State Board of Fducation, which now administers the two colleges. Mr. Howard stated that the State Board has taken no action, but is cognizant of the proposal, and wishes to discuss it with Mr. Darden. The Visitors agreed that President Darden should examine the matter further with Presidents Lankford and Miller and with the State Board.

President Darden reported to the Board the serious illness of Dean Zehmer and commented on the immense growth of the Extension Division under his direction. That Division, the President said, was already overtaxed before undertaking the supervision of the two branch colleges; he felt that Mr. Zehmer's illness made a separate administration of the colleges imperative, and he would report to the Board at a later meeting on the administrative rearrangements.

In the absence of Mr. Gray, Mr. Coxe presented a letter from Cecil F. Mears, realty agent, enclosing an offer from Charles M. Hodgman, Jr., to purchase for $6,900 the University's tenacre tract of land in Princess Anne County, near Diamond Springs, designated as Lot No. 5 in C. F. Petrie's plat of Lawson Farms recorded in the Clerk's office of Princess Anne County, Map Book 6, page 111. Mr. Coxe read a letter from Mr. Gray recommending acceptance of the offer and stating that Mr. Barron F. Black believes that the offer ought to be accepted.

There was general agreement among the Visitors as to the acceptability of the price, but some questioned whether the University ought to give a General Warranty of title.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with this sale subject to a study of the proposal by Mr. Minor, the University's Special Counsel, to whom the Secretary was directed to deliver the papers laid before the Board, with the request that Mr. Minor report to the President regarding: (1) the acceptability of the agreement in the form presented, and (2) the propriety of the University's undertaking to give a General Warranty of title in this or in any other case.

Mr. Hartfield laid before the Board the following letter from Mr. Barron F. Black (President of the Law Alumni Association) and its enclosure, a copy of the will of Roy C. Moyston:

Confirming my conversation with you of several days ago, I am enclosing herewith the last will and testament of Roy C. Moyston. You will notice that on page 5, Article V (B) one-half of the community estate of Mr. and Mrs. Moyston and all of his separate estate is left to the Jefferson Sponsors Fund for the use and benefit of the Law Department of the University of Virginia, and if said fund be not then in existence, then to said University of Virginia for the use and benefit of the Law Department. Since the Jefferson Sponsors Fund is not in existence, it is my interpretation that the money in question goes to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, and should be handled by the University of Virginia's attorney, Venable Minor.

What has happened in the past is that Ambler Moss, an attorney of Baltimore, Maryland, at the request of the Law Council, or Law Association has been representing the University. Up to the present time no representation has been needed but I now understand a suit has been filed and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been made a party to it. Venable Minor may desire to get in touch with Ambler Moss and work through him, and I rather hope that he will because I think Mr. Moss would be very helpful. I was commissioned by the Law Council to lay before you this situation. Perhaps you would alert Venable Moss.

It is my understanding that the University's share of this estate will amount to about a million and a quarter. However, the University will not participate until Mrs. Moyston dies.

It was a great pleasure to talk to you the other day and I enjoyed my visit to the University.

Mr. Hartfield commented that the suit involved a determination of how much land Mrs. Moyston is entitled to have surrounding her house. It was his opinion that Mrs. Moyston's good will was of material importance to the University, and that enlightened self interest dictated a liberal attitude by the University.

The Board resolved accordingly that Mr. Black's letter and enclosure be referred to the University's Attorney, Mr. Minor, with instructions to him to work out at his discretion with Mr. Ambler Moss an arrangement that would be equitable and reasonable in satisfying Mrs. Moyston's wishes.

Mr. Smith read to the Board the following letter, and laid before the Board other correspondence of April, May, and June 1956 relating to same subject:

This is to advise you that the City of Falls Church proposes to offer the sum of $100,000.00 for that tract of land in the City know as the Joseph H. Riley tract, located at the corner of Park Avenue and Little Falls Street, containing 8.321 acres of land.

The terms of this offer will be contingent upon approval by the voters of a bond issue to finance the purchase.

The City would want to take possession of approximately three acres of land upon settlement, Mrs. Parker & Mrs. Gage to retain their life interest in the remainder tax free.

In the event the University does not wish to take the full amount in cash at the time of settlement, necessary arrangements for a deferred purchase money trust and interest thereon to be made.

I trust that this offer will meet with the approval of your Committee and of the University of Virginia. If the above offer is acceptable, I would suggest that an agreement be entered into by all parties concerned spelling out the conditions upon which the property is to be sold.

Noting the great increase in the Falls Church offer, and the fact that the former difficulties involving the Riley life tenants had now been satisfactorily ironed out, Judge Smith urged acceptance of the offer and reported that Mr. Gray concurred in this opinion.

The Board resolved that the offer of the City of Falls Church to purchase the Joseph H. Riley tract, as set forth in the foregoing letter from Mr. Pedersen, be accepted, subject to approval of the proposed bond issue; and that the letters laid before the Board by Mr. Smith be delivered to Mr. C. Venable Minor, with the request that he prepare a contract in these terms for future submission to the Board.

The Rector read to the Board a telegram from Mr. Cooper Dawson urging postponement of any decision fixing a site for the Northern Virginia college. Judge Smith and President Darden discussed the proposed Ravensworth and Herndon sites, and the Rector said that he would shortly appoint a special committee of Visitors, subject to the Board's resolution of 14 April 1956, to consult with the local committees in Alexandria, Fairfax County, and Falls Church, and to assist the President in determining the most appropriate site.

Mrs. Smith presented the following report:

The University house on East Range at present occupied by Dr. David C. Wilson has suddenly become vacant as a result of Professor Wilson's resignation, effective July 1st.

Our Committee has voted to recommend the assignment of this house to Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture, and we hereby offer this Report as a motion that the house be so assigned.

The Board resolved that the Report be accepted and approved, and that the East Range House be assigned to Dean Fitz Patrick.

President Darden presented a letter of 14 June 1956 from Messrs. David Cheney and Richard M. Wells requesting, as Trustees for the Virginia Beta of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, the privilege of obtaining an option to lease a plot of land 150 × 250 feet in size on Alderman Road opposite Scott Stadium.

It was ordered that Mr. Wells' letter be referred to the Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds.

The President reported that he had opened yesterday the bids for construction of the new children's hospital which is to be located on the Rucker Tract on Route 250 west of the University. The low bid of $421,000 from the Ivy Construction Company was, Mr. Darden said, higher than he had hoped; but it was within $15,000 of the other bids, and he believed it was the best that could be obtained. The President requested authority to proceed with a contract for construction, subject to approval by the Director of the Budget.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed in this matter at his own discretion.

In response to an inquiry from Mrs. Smith regarding the falling ratio of faculty salaries versus national income, President Darden said that the problem was constantly on his mind and the most urgent need of the University. A further increase in fees, the President said, appeared to offer the only prospect of improvement, and he intended to discuss with the Governor a plan to increase fees and to superimpose upon the salary structure additional pay for the proposed "distinguished" professorships.

Responding to a request from the President, the Board resolved that the President be authorized during the summer months to make interim faculty appointments, which the Board would confirm by formal election at the next regular meeting on October 13th.

Mr. Greear observed that it would be helpful if the biographical sketches of persons nominated for election to the Faculty could show the birthplaces and religious preferences of the candidates. President Darden said that he would try to have this information added to the dockets.

Referring to the Visitors' resolution of April 14th setting June 16th as the date for a decision on the application by Alphonso Edward Nichols, a Negro student, for admission to the College, and directing an interim conference with the Governor and the Attorney General, the Rector reported that the conference had been held. Governor Stanley, Mr. Talbott said, had informed the delegation from the Board that there had been no alteration of his plan to find a means of maintaining segregation in the public school system of Virginia.

The Attorney General had not been able to be present at the conference, the Rector said, and President Darden had subsequently asked the University's Attorney to furnish the Board with a legal opinion on the problem. This letter the Secretary read to the Board, at the Rector's request as follows:

In accordance with your request, I have given careful consideration to Mr. Talbott's letter to you of May 21, 1956, asking for an opinion from me on the admissibility of a male Negro applicant to the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Virginia. The application is accompanied by credentials which show him to be otherwise entitled to admission. The fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for Negroes at Petersburg, under the name of Virginia State College, has also been noted.

It will be recalled that the case of Swanson v. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia settled the question in Virginia in regard to the admission of Negroes to the postgraduate schools of its state universities. In that case it was admitted the State did not provide separate facilities for postgraduate studies. However, under the decision of the Supreme Court, (rendered by Chief Justice Vinson), in Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629, 70 S. Ct. 848, 94 L.Ed. 1114, where Texas had undertaken to provide a separate law school, the decision would have been the same even if Virginia had undertaken to provide separate postgraduate facilities.

Is the fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for negroes sufficient to justify the University of Virginia refusing admission to a Negro to its College of Liberal Arts? If this were a case of first impression there might be some justification for this position. However, upon facts which are identical with those presented here, in Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina (134 F. Supp. 589), Judge Soper in 1955, speaking for a three man court consisting of Circuit Court Judge Dobie, District Judge Hayes, and himself, upheld the right of Negro applicants otherwise qualified, to admission to the undergraduate schools of that University. This decision was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court per curiam in a memorandum decision on March 5, 1956 (76 S. Ct. 467).

In my opinion, there is no distinction between the facts submitted to the Court in Frasier v. Board of Trustees and the facts presented to the Board on application for admission of a Negro to the College of Liberal Arts, and I am further of the opinion that in the event of litigation the Supreme Court decision in the North Carolina case will control.

Faced with the decision in the Frasier case, the refusal of the Board of Visitors to admit the present Negro applicant to its College of Liberal Arts, in my opinion, can only result in litigation the decision in which will be swiftly rendered and the result a foregone conclusion. It would seem unfortunate to provide such an easy victory for the attorneys for the N.A.A.C.P.

I also understand an application has been received from a Negress, residing in Fredericksburg, for admission to Mary Washington College. The fact the applicant is a female in that case does not, in my opinion, affect the situation from a legal standpoint. The Supreme Court decision in the Frasier case will also control here.

If the question of integration is still to be fought in the Courts, then a better battleground than the ones presented here should be selected and legal weapons provided, not now in existence, which would provide some hope of success.

President Darden stated that Mr. Nichols, like the applicants for admission to Mary Washington College and to the Extension courses in Northern Virginia, appeared not to be making a test case, but according to all available evidence is a bona fide student, as well qualified for admission as the Negro students who already attend classes in the College while registered primarily for professional work.

The Rector and the President, expressing deference to and sympathy for opposing viewpoints, strongly supported and buttressed the arguments in Mr. Minor's letter.

There was a lengthy discussion of the issue raised by the Nichols application, participated in by all members present. This discussion developed a thorough canvass of possible results which could follow from any action which might be taken at this time. Following this discussion, the Board resolved by a divided vote to defer action both on the Nichols application for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences of the University at Charlottesville and also the Walker application for admission to Mary Washington College until the next regular or called meeting of the Board.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Dr. Margaret Lee Hargrove, Dean of Women and Professor of Classics, salary at rate of $5,900 plus 1/5 of that amount for the summer months making a total of $7,080 for twelvemonths, plus $600 for administrative duties. Living quarters on campus for session of 12 months. Incumbency to begin July 1, 1956.

Dr. William Schuyler Miller, Visiting Professor of Geology (Part-time), salary at rate of $1,475 or one-fourth of salary of full professor in starting category of $5900 for a nine months' period. Incumbency to begin, September 17, 1956.

Dr. Miriam Eloise Bowes, Assistant Professor of French, salary at rate of $4,600 for nine months. Incumbency to begin September 17, 1956.

Dr. Robert Glenn Templeton, Acting Assistant Professor of Education and English, salary at rate of $4,600 for the session of nine months. Incumbency to begin September 17, 1956.

Dr. Herman Lynn Womack, Instructor in Philosophy and Psychology, salary at rate of $4,000 for session of nine months. Incumbency to begin September 17, 1956.

Mr. Harold Anton Michael Kirschner, Riding instructor, salary at rate of $4,000 for the session of nine months. Incumbency to begin September 17, 1956.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mrs. J. P. Harris, Instructor of Home Economics and Acting Dean of Women, to Assistant Professor of Home Economics, at a salary of $4,800, effective September 17, 1956.

Miss Yvette Marie Fallandy, Instructor of French, to Assistant Professor of French, at a salary of $4,600, effective September 17, 1956.

Subject to the Resolution adopted by the Board on 24 September 1955, the Secretary noted that regular meetings during 1956-57 will fall on the following dates: October 13th, December 8th, February 9th, April 13th (at Fredericksburg), and June 8th.

Mr. Howard, Chairman of the Committee on Mary Washington College, and Chancellor Simpson laid before the Board copies of the Budget for 1956-1957. Mr. Howard recommended approval on behalf of his Committee, which had approved the Budget on June 2nd.

After discussion the Board resolved that the Budget be approved as presented.

Mr. Howard and the President and the Chancellor then reported to the Board on other matters considered by the Committee on June 2nd. a fire in Virginia Hall, and the steps taken to protect the College from liability, a proposed exchange of property, the details to be reported later; and the decision to modify the architectural treatment of the new Science Building so as to fact it toward a future quadrangle on the present reservoir site.

Referring to the Board's consideration on April 14th of an application of a Negro student for admission to the College, Chancellor Simpson said that the applicant's transcript from Morgan College had now been received, and that the Admissions Committee had found the applicant qualified for admission. The Chancellor reported also that the College had received a second application from a Negro for the 1956-57 session and several from prospective Negro day students for the 1956 summer session.

The Board, which had received earlier in the meeting an opinion from its Attorney favorable to the admission of this applicant, and had considered at great length a parallel application from a Negro student for admission to the College at Charlottesville, resolved by a divided vote to defer action on the application until the next regular Board meeting on October 13th unless there shall be a called meeting in the interim.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Present tuition

$100

Proposed tuition

180

The committee which you recently appointed to study the program in the Department of Nursing thought that the tuition in the Department should be increased to that obtaining in the College of Arts and Sciences, effective with the 1957-58 session.

Confirming my conversation with you of several days ago, I am enclosing herewith the last will and testament of Roy C. Moyston. You will notice that on page 5, Article V (B) one-half of the community estate of Mr. and Mrs. Moyston and all of his separate estate is left to the Jefferson Sponsors Fund for the use and benefit of the Law Department of the University of Virginia, and if said fund be not then in existence, then to said University of Virginia for the use and benefit of the Law Department. Since the Jefferson Sponsors Fund is not in existence, it is my interpretation that the money in question goes to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, and should be handled by the University of Virginia's attorney, Venable Minor.

What has happened in the past is that Ambler Moss, an attorney of Baltimore, Maryland, at the request of the Law Council, or Law Association has been representing the University. Up to the present time no representation has been needed but I now understand a suit has been filed and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been made a party to it. Venable Minor may desire to get in touch with Ambler Moss and work through him, and I rather hope that he will because I think Mr. Moss would be very helpful. I was commissioned by the Law Council to lay before you this situation. Perhaps you would alert Venable Moss.

It is my understanding that the University's share of this estate will amount to about a million and a quarter. However, the University will not participate until Mrs. Moyston dies.

It was a great pleasure to talk to you the other day and I enjoyed my visit to the University.

This is to advise you that the City of Falls Church proposes to offer the sum of $100,000.00 for that tract of land in the City know as the Joseph H. Riley tract, located at the corner of Park Avenue and Little Falls Street, containing 8.321 acres of land.

The terms of this offer will be contingent upon approval by the voters of a bond issue to finance the purchase.

The City would want to take possession of approximately three acres of land upon settlement, Mrs. Parker & Mrs. Gage to retain their life interest in the remainder tax free.

In the event the University does not wish to take the full amount in cash at the time of settlement, necessary arrangements for a deferred purchase money trust and interest thereon to be made.

I trust that this offer will meet with the approval of your Committee and of the University of Virginia. If the above offer is acceptable, I would suggest that an agreement be entered into by all parties concerned spelling out the conditions upon which the property is to be sold.

The University house on East Range at present occupied by Dr. David C. Wilson has suddenly become vacant as a result of Professor Wilson's resignation, effective July 1st.

Our Committee has voted to recommend the assignment of this house to Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture, and we hereby offer this Report as a motion that the house be so assigned.

In accordance with your request, I have given careful consideration to Mr. Talbott's letter to you of May 21, 1956, asking for an opinion from me on the admissibility of a male Negro applicant to the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Virginia. The application is accompanied by credentials which show him to be otherwise entitled to admission. The fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for Negroes at Petersburg, under the name of Virginia State College, has also been noted.

It will be recalled that the case of Swanson v. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia settled the question in Virginia in regard to the admission of Negroes to the postgraduate schools of its state universities. In that case it was admitted the State did not provide separate facilities for postgraduate studies. However, under the decision of the Supreme Court, (rendered by Chief Justice Vinson), in Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629, 70 S. Ct. 848, 94 L.Ed. 1114, where Texas had undertaken to provide a separate law school, the decision would have been the same even if Virginia had undertaken to provide separate postgraduate facilities.

Is the fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for negroes sufficient to justify the University of Virginia refusing admission to a Negro to its College of Liberal Arts? If this were a case of first impression there might be some justification for this position. However, upon facts which are identical with those presented here, in Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina (134 F. Supp. 589), Judge Soper in 1955, speaking for a three man court consisting of Circuit Court Judge Dobie, District Judge Hayes, and himself, upheld the right of Negro applicants otherwise qualified, to admission to the undergraduate schools of that University. This decision was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court per curiam in a memorandum decision on March 5, 1956 (76 S. Ct. 467).

In my opinion, there is no distinction between the facts submitted to the Court in Frasier v. Board of Trustees and the facts presented to the Board on application for admission of a Negro to the College of Liberal Arts, and I am further of the opinion that in the event of litigation the Supreme Court decision in the North Carolina case will control.

Faced with the decision in the Frasier case, the refusal of the Board of Visitors to admit the present Negro applicant to its College of Liberal Arts, in my opinion, can only result in litigation the decision in which will be swiftly rendered and the result a foregone conclusion. It would seem unfortunate to provide such an easy victory for the attorneys for the N.A.A.C.P.

I also understand an application has been received from a Negress, residing in Fredericksburg, for admission to Mary Washington College. The fact the applicant is a female in that case does not, in my opinion, affect the situation from a legal standpoint. The Supreme Court decision in the Frasier case will also control here.

If the question of integration is still to be fought in the Courts, then a better battleground than the ones presented here should be selected and legal weapons provided, not now in existence, which would provide some hope of success.

Present tuition

$100

Proposed tuition

180

The committee which you recently appointed to study the program in the Department of Nursing thought that the tuition in the Department should be increased to that obtaining in the College of Arts and Sciences, effective with the 1957-58 session.

Confirming my conversation with you of several days ago, I am enclosing herewith the last will and testament of Roy C. Moyston. You will notice that on page 5, Article V (B) one-half of the community estate of Mr. and Mrs. Moyston and all of his separate estate is left to the Jefferson Sponsors Fund for the use and benefit of the Law Department of the University of Virginia, and if said fund be not then in existence, then to said University of Virginia for the use and benefit of the Law Department. Since the Jefferson Sponsors Fund is not in existence, it is my interpretation that the money in question goes to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation, and should be handled by the University of Virginia's attorney, Venable Minor.

What has happened in the past is that Ambler Moss, an attorney of Baltimore, Maryland, at the request of the Law Council, or Law Association has been representing the University. Up to the present time no representation has been needed but I now understand a suit has been filed and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been made a party to it. Venable Minor may desire to get in touch with Ambler Moss and work through him, and I rather hope that he will because I think Mr. Moss would be very helpful. I was commissioned by the Law Council to lay before you this situation. Perhaps you would alert Venable Moss.

It is my understanding that the University's share of this estate will amount to about a million and a quarter. However, the University will not participate until Mrs. Moyston dies.

It was a great pleasure to talk to you the other day and I enjoyed my visit to the University.

This is to advise you that the City of Falls Church proposes to offer the sum of $100,000.00 for that tract of land in the City know as the Joseph H. Riley tract, located at the corner of Park Avenue and Little Falls Street, containing 8.321 acres of land.

The terms of this offer will be contingent upon approval by the voters of a bond issue to finance the purchase.

The City would want to take possession of approximately three acres of land upon settlement, Mrs. Parker & Mrs. Gage to retain their life interest in the remainder tax free.

In the event the University does not wish to take the full amount in cash at the time of settlement, necessary arrangements for a deferred purchase money trust and interest thereon to be made.

I trust that this offer will meet with the approval of your Committee and of the University of Virginia. If the above offer is acceptable, I would suggest that an agreement be entered into by all parties concerned spelling out the conditions upon which the property is to be sold.

The University house on East Range at present occupied by Dr. David C. Wilson has suddenly become vacant as a result of Professor Wilson's resignation, effective July 1st.

Our Committee has voted to recommend the assignment of this house to Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Dean of the School of Architecture, and we hereby offer this Report as a motion that the house be so assigned.

In accordance with your request, I have given careful consideration to Mr. Talbott's letter to you of May 21, 1956, asking for an opinion from me on the admissibility of a male Negro applicant to the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Virginia. The application is accompanied by credentials which show him to be otherwise entitled to admission. The fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for Negroes at Petersburg, under the name of Virginia State College, has also been noted.

It will be recalled that the case of Swanson v. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia settled the question in Virginia in regard to the admission of Negroes to the postgraduate schools of its state universities. In that case it was admitted the State did not provide separate facilities for postgraduate studies. However, under the decision of the Supreme Court, (rendered by Chief Justice Vinson), in Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U.S. 629, 70 S. Ct. 848, 94 L.Ed. 1114, where Texas had undertaken to provide a separate law school, the decision would have been the same even if Virginia had undertaken to provide separate postgraduate facilities.

Is the fact that the State of Virginia maintains a liberal arts college for negroes sufficient to justify the University of Virginia refusing admission to a Negro to its College of Liberal Arts? If this were a case of first impression there might be some justification for this position. However, upon facts which are identical with those presented here, in Frasier v. Board of Trustees of the University of North Carolina (134 F. Supp. 589), Judge Soper in 1955, speaking for a three man court consisting of Circuit Court Judge Dobie, District Judge Hayes, and himself, upheld the right of Negro applicants otherwise qualified, to admission to the undergraduate schools of that University. This decision was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court per curiam in a memorandum decision on March 5, 1956 (76 S. Ct. 467).

In my opinion, there is no distinction between the facts submitted to the Court in Frasier v. Board of Trustees and the facts presented to the Board on application for admission of a Negro to the College of Liberal Arts, and I am further of the opinion that in the event of litigation the Supreme Court decision in the North Carolina case will control.

Faced with the decision in the Frasier case, the refusal of the Board of Visitors to admit the present Negro applicant to its College of Liberal Arts, in my opinion, can only result in litigation the decision in which will be swiftly rendered and the result a foregone conclusion. It would seem unfortunate to provide such an easy victory for the attorneys for the N.A.A.C.P.

I also understand an application has been received from a Negress, residing in Fredericksburg, for admission to Mary Washington College. The fact the applicant is a female in that case does not, in my opinion, affect the situation from a legal standpoint. The Supreme Court decision in the Frasier case will also control here.

If the question of integration is still to be fought in the Courts, then a better battleground than the ones presented here should be selected and legal weapons provided, not now in existence, which would provide some hope of success.