Board of Visitors minutes (1956) April 14, 1956
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 14, 1956

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

12 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MR. TALBOTT ELECTED RECTOR MR. BRYAN, MR. GREEAR, AND DR. MARTIN APPOINTED VISITORS GIFTS AND GRANTS ELECTIONS RE-ELECTIONS CHANGE IN STATUS OR TITLE RESIGNATIONS LEAVES OF ABSENCE PROMOTIONS APPOINTMENT CANCELLATION OF ELECTION UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS HARRY FLOOD BYRD LOAN FUND ESTABLISHED PORTER PROPERTY RE-ZONING OUT-OF-STATE REGIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS STUDENT PUBLICATIONS FEE NEGRO STUDENT'S APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGE NORTHERN VIRGINIA JUNIOR COLLEGE ESTABLISHED CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS SPORTS CAR TRIALS APPROVED MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTIONS LEAVES OF ABSENCE ADMISSION OF MEN STUDENTS DENIED NEGRO STUDENT'S APPLICATION FACULTY SALARY SCHEDULE REVISED RESERVOIR - BROMPTON TRACT EXCHANGE SCIENCE BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT DORMITORY BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FIRE HAZARDS IN VIRGINIA HALL ENROLLMENT AND WITHDRAWALS NEW DORMITORY STUDENTSCOMPARATIVE DATA ON STUDENT WITHDRAWALSCOMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENT DATA1943 - 1956 COLLEGE BOARD EXAMINATIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Prof. A. G. A. Balz, to be added to the Balz Philosophy Fund

$500.00

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., for Medical School or hospital purposes, securities valued at

3,151.43

From Mr. Thomas W. Streeter, to the Alderman Library, various documents and maps, valued at

302.50

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to the Alderman Library for the restoration of the papers of William Fitzhugh and other manuscripts (NO PUBLICITY)

1,000.00

From Mrs. Sidman Pools, to the Alderman Library, a collection of Henty books valued at

687.50

From Mr. G. T. Minnigerode, to be added to the Suhling Cancer Fund

200.00

From the Armour Laboratories, to be added to the Hematology Research Fund

250.00

From sundry persons, to be added to the R. H. Webb Book Fund

1,460.00

From an anonymous donor, for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship for the 1956-57 session

1,000.00

From Dr. H. W. Litvak, for the Medical School

500.00

From the S. E. Massengill Company, to be added to the Urology Fellowship Fund

2,500.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be added to the Nurses' Scholarship Fund

200.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, in support of the Medical School

32,387.50

From the estate of the late Mrs. Katherine Stiles Nuckols, to establish the "Howard Stiles Nuckols Scholarship"

10,000.00

From Mr. Linton Massey, books to the Alderman Library valued at

646.50

From the E. I. duPont deNemours Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the summer of 1956

1,500.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the hospital

300.00

From Mr. Theodore Barnes, to be added to the John Toole Memorial Trust Fund, securities valued at

997.88

From Dr. John F. Anderson, to establish the John F. Anderson Memorial Lectures in Medicine (NO PUBLICITY)

15,000.00

From Dr. John T. Bate, to be added to the Bate Student Loan Fund, securities valued at

805.00

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be used for the Department of Biology

600.00

From Mr. and Mrs. Fred W. Scott, to the University Hospital for the purchase of a prayer desk

110.00

From the Alumni Association, for athletic grants-in-aid

10,000.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid

20,000.00

From an anonymous donor, to the Department of Foreign Affairs, to be used to pay the honorarium for the Michalowski Lectures

300.00

From Mrs. Mary R. White, to the Department of Surgery, for the purchase of equipment

325.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Michael S. Kovalenko, to be added to the Jessie Stevenson Kovalenko Fund

11,838.00

From the estate of the late Mrs. Marie Goebel Kimball, to the Department of Manuscripts and Rare Books of the Alderman Library

5,000.00

From Mr. Vaughan Camp, to the Alderman Library, 992 books valued at

496.50

From Miss Elizabeth Johnston, 1063 items to the Alderman Library, valued at

1,594.50

From the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, for research under Prof. L. R. Quarles of the Engineering School

9,800.00

From Johns Hopkins University, for continued research under Prof. L. R. Quarles of the School of Engineering

25,000.00

From the American Cancer Society, for continued research under Prof. Alfred Burger, of the Dept. of Chemistry

6,670.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under Dr. William Parson of the Dept. of Internal Medicine

11,500.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for continued research under Dr. W. P. Anslow, Jr., of the Dept. of Physiology

10,217.00

From the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund, for research under Dr. Vincent Hollander for the Cancer Research Laboratory

$8,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under Prof. Nicolas Cabrera of the Dept. of Physics

4,091.25

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under Prof. A. T. Gwathmey, of the Dept. of Chemistry

48,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau of the Dept. of Physics

10,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under Dr. A. R. Kuhlthau of the Dept. of Physics

65,000.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin, of the Dept. of Biochemistry

16,215.00

From the Virginia Cerebral Palsy Assoc. for the Cerebral Palsy Clinic

2,700.00

PRESENT SALARY SCHEDULE

1

2

3

4

5

6

Professor

5400

5650

5900

6150

6400

6650

Associate Professor

4400

4600

4800

5000

5200

5400

Assistant Professor

3800

3980

4160

4340

4520

Instructor

3240

3420

3600

3780

NEW SALARY SCHEDULE

Professor

5900

6200

6500

6800

7100

7400

Associate Professor

5000

5250

5500

5750

6000

Assistant Professor

4600

4800

5000

5200

Instructor

4000

4200

4400

4600

Amount of Step Increase - New Schedule

Interval New Schedule

Professor

300

2 academic years

Associate Professor

250

2 academic years

Assistant Professor

200

1 academic year

Instructor

200

1 academic year

Present dormitory capacity

1,518

Reduction by discontinuing Cornell Hall

82

Reducing congestion in Virginia Hall

33

Providing facilities for the Dean of Women

9

124

Total

1,394

Proposed new dormitory

176

1,570

Less temporary spaces

51

Total

1,519

Estimated construction cost, including architects fees: 176 students at $3,700

$651,200

Estimated cost of equipment: 176 students at $300

52,800

$704,000

Less appropriation

192,500

Funds to be provided from proceeds of a bond issue

$511,500

Total applications received

1,002

Incomplete applications and awaiting reviewed by the Committee on admissions

148

Applications cancelled

69

Applications rejected by Committee on Admissions as not meeting entrance requirements

201

418

Net applications accepted - New Students

584

Total applications received for Re-admission

935

TOTAL STUDENTS ACCEPTED

1,519

Va. Dorm

Non-Res. Dorm

Va. Day

Non-Res. Day

Va. Special

Non-Res. Special

Total

1954-55 through March 31

73

73

15

7

7

175

1955-56 through March 31

50

56

5

2

6

2

121

Session

Freshmen

Sophomores

Juniors

Seniors

Specials

Total

1943-44

798

309

161

186

9

1,463

1944-45

619

479

179

152

8

1,437

1945-56

566

389

247

210

17

1,429

1946-47

693

345

243

226

10

1,517

1947-48

613

378

264

238

20

1,513

1948-49

656

363

252

244

13

1,528

1949-50

587

395

228

224

12

1,446

1950-51

408

355

233

208

12

1,216

1951-52

426

294

231

220

9

1,180

1952-53

578

317

199

207

13

1,314

1953-54

681

385

187

178

26

1,457

1954-55

692

474

224

160

27

1,577

1955-56

592

483

279

176

18

1,548

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia convened at 10:00 A.M. on this date in executive session in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, at Fredericksburg, with the following present. Visitors Berkeley, Bryan, Coxe, Gravatt, Greear, Hartfield, Jones, McWane, Martin, Pollock, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Emmett, Gray, Howard, and Mrs. Smith.

The minutes of the meeting of 4 February 1956, previously distributed, were approved

Following a brief period of balloting, the Board announced through its temporary Chairman, Mr. Berkeley, that Mr. Talbott had been elected Rector succeeding Mr. Black, for the remainder of the four-year term ending 28 February 1958

PRESIDENT DARDEN AND CHANCELLOR SIMPSON PRESENT

The Rector welcomed to the Board Judge Albert Vickers Bryan, Mr. Fred Bonham Greear, and Dr. Walter Bramblette Martin, who had been appointed Visitors by the Governor on February 29th for four-year terms commencing 1 March 1956, as successors to Barron Foster Black (who had retired from the Board in accordance with the statutes after eleven years of service) and to Benjamin William Mears and Alfred Dickinson Barksdale, who had retired after ten years of service. Copies of the oaths of office of the three new Visitors were handed to the Secretary and ordered to be filed Mr. Talbott, Mr. Smith, and Miss Wheeler had been reappointed on the same date to a second four-year term

The President announced the following gifts and grants

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. Paul N. Schatz as Assistant Professor of Chemistry for a period of three years, as of September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,000.

Miss V. Frances Hampton as Instructor in Nursing from March 19 to July 1, 1956

Dr. Henry Garrett as Visiting Professor of educational psychology in the School of Education, half-time, beginning in September, 1956, at a salary of $3,000

Dr. Jason Eugene McClellan as Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1956, at a salary of $7,200 per year, $5,700 of which will be paid from departmental earnings and $1,500 from the Clinical Pathology Department.

Dr. Copley McLean as Instructor in Otolaryngology, effective July 1, 1956, with a stipend of $500.00 a year.

Dr. Cecil Hougie as Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, effective July 1, 1956, for a period of one year, at an annual salary of $6,800, $2,200 of which is to be paid from the University budget and $4,600 from the University Hospital.

Dr. John Gordon Morrow, Jr., as Instructor in Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1956, at a salary of $7,200 a year, $3,000 of which is to be paid from the University budget and $4,200 from departmental funds.

Dr. James Beaton Littlefield as Instructor in Surgery (thoracic), as on July 1, 1956, at an annual salary of $6,000, $2,500 of which is to come from the University budget and $3,500 from departmental earnings.

Dr. Franz Schubert as Instructor in Anesthesiology, as of July 1, at a salary of $7,200 per year, $3,000 to be paid from the University budget and $4,200 from departmental funds.

Dr. James L. Camp, III, as Instructor in Medicine, effective in September, 1956, at a salary of $7,200 per year, to be paid from the cardiology grant.

Dr. Eugene Alexander Gillis as Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine, effective April 1, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Robert L. Davis as Assistant Professor of Mathematics for a period of three years, effective in September, at a session salary of $5,500. It is understood that his salary for the first year and probably the second will be paid from a grant to the Mathematical Association of America.

Mr. Alonzo Williams Kenion as Instructor in English, beginning in September, at a salary of $4,000 per session if his doctorate is not completed then. If he has received the Ph.D. by Sept. 1, his salary will be $4,250.

Mr. Maurice Karlen Townsend as Assistant Professor of Political Science and Research Assistant in the Bureau of Public Administration, effective Sept. 1, 1956, for a period of three years, his salary to be carried on the budget of the Bureau of Public Administration.

Mr. Thomas McFarland as Instructor in English, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $4,500.

Mr. Ralph W. Cherry as Professor of Education and Dean of the School of Education, effective in September, 1956, at an annual salary of $12,000.

Mr. John Lewis Longley as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, effective in September, 1956, at a session salary of $5,900.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected, their original appointments having expired or will be expired shortly:

Dr. B. J. Ball, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective in September, 1956.

Dr. Cornelia Hoch-Ligeti, Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective Sept. 1, 1956.

Dr. E. W. Pullen, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective Sept. 11, 1956.

Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1956.

Dr. Eugene D. Brand, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective Sept. 1, 1956.

Dr. William E. Craddock, Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, as of July 1, 1956.

Dr. William D. Buxton, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, for three years, as of July 1, 1956.

Dr. Clarke Wilson Mangum, Jr., Lecturer in Social and Environmental Medicine, for one year, as of April 1, 1956.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes in status or title be and they are hereby made:

Dr. Claude C. Coleman, Jr., Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, part-time, to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, full-time.

Dr. Robert D. Wright, Professor of Social and Environmental Medicine, to Clinical Professor of Social and Environmental Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1956, with a stipend of $1,500.

Dr. Preston B. Lowrance, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Physiology, as of July 1, 1956.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted:

Mrs. Frances M. Lassiter, Instructor in Nursing, as of March 31, 1956.

Mrs. Josephine C. Garrett, Instructor in Nursing, as of April 5, 1956.

Mr. Lionel Weiss, Associate Professor of Statistics, as of the end of this session, to take a position at Oregon State University.

Mr. Malcolm B. McCoy, Assistant Professor of Speech, as of the end of this session, to take a position at Wake Forest College.

Mr. John Gange, Professor of Foreign Affairs, as of the end of this session, to accept a foreign assignment.

Mr. Douglas S. Ward, Professor of Education and Acting Dean of the School of Education, as of the end of this session, to take a position at Miami University.

Mr. B. J. Chandler, Assistant Professor of Education, as of the end of this session, to take a position at Northwestern University.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay:

Mr. Kenneth Redden, Professor of Law, for the session of 1956-57. This is an extension of his leave for a foreign assignment.

Dr. Edward C. Stevenson, Professor of Physics, for the session of 1956-57, in order to do research.

Dr. Francis Duke, Associate Professor of Romance Languages, half-time leave at half-time pay, to do research.

Dr. Marcus Mallett, Associate Professor of Philosophy, for the session of 1956-57 to do research.

Dr. Shao Chuan Leng, Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the session of 1956-57, to accept a Fulbright Fellowship.

Mr. Thomas Taylor Hammond, Assistant Professor of History, for the session of 1956-57, to accept a Fulbright Fellowship.

Dr. Frank A. Geldard, Professor of Psychology and Chairman of the Department of Psychology, for the session of 1956-57, to go on a foreign assignment.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Dr. Marvin Rosenblum, Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics for two years, effective in September, 1956.

Dr. James David Deck, Instructor in Anatomy, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, as of July 1, 1956, for a period of three years, at an annual salary of $5,600.

Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Clinical Instructor in Opthalmology and Otolaryngology, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Opthalmology, as of July 1, 1956, for a period of three years, with an annual stipend of $1,000.

Dr. W. Dean Warren, Instructor in Surgery, to Assistant Professor of Surgery, as of July 1, 1956, for a period of three years.

Dr. Harry Lee Archer, Instructor in Surgery, to Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, as of July 1, for a period of three years, without salary from the University.

Dr. Arthur Morton Smith, Instructor in Surgery, to Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery, as of July 1, 1956, for a period of three years, without salary from the University.

Dr. Julian Beckwith, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Medicine, as of July 1, 1956.

Dr. William M. Sheppe, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1956, for a period of three years.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointment:

Lieutenant James F. Newman as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, effective in June, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Lieutenant (jg) W. H. Heathcote.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Walter Henry Puterbaugh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, acted on at the February 4, 1956, meeting of the Board, be and it is hereby cancelled since Mr. Puterbaugh has decided not to accept the position.

President Darden laid before the Board Uncollectible Accounts Schedule #5 as compiled by the Assistant Bursar and reviewed and approved by the Accounts Committee. The President pointed out that these accounts consist largely of theoretical balances accruing as excess charges against Virginia students under a liberal arrangement set up by the Veterans Administration. After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Committee on Student Accounts be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible Accounts Schedule #5, aggregating $30,351.38, as recommended by it.

The President laid before the Board and discussed the following letter:

As an admirer of Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia, I should like to see a fund or endowment established at the University of Virginia in recognition of his conspicuous service to our country, especially in the field of public finance.

In order to inaugurate such a fund, and in consideration of its acceptance, I submit the following proposal:

I will personally give to the University, or cause to be given through a corporation of which I am president, a sum of not less than $2500.00 nor more than $5,000.00 a year for the next five years, the first payment to be made immediately upon approval by you of the following conditions and subsequent annual payments to be made between November 1st and January 31st, next ensuing.

(a) The fund shall be used presently as a student loan fund for the Graduate School of Business Administration and shall be known as "The Harry Flood Byrd Loan Fund"

(b) The fund shall be handled and administered by such agencies of the University as the Board of Visitors may from time to time designate.

(c) The fund shall be open for additional contributions from other admirers of Senator Byrd and of the University of Virginia.

(d) If and when a Chair of Public Finance should be endowed in your School of Business Administration in honor of Senator Byrd, my contributions may be transferred to that endowment fund.

This proposal has been submitted to President Darden and I am advised it meets with his approval. Senator Byrd has also expressed his approval and has consented that his name may be used for the fund.

The Board thereupon resolved (1) that there be created the Harry Flood Byrd Loan Fund in the Graduate School of Business Administration in accordance with the terms set forth above in Mr. Rubin's letter, and (2) that the Secretary be directed to convey to Mr. Rubin the warm thanks of the Visitors for his generous initiative in inaugurating the Fund and his proposed gifts for its development.

On the recommendation of President Darden, the Board resolved to confirm its decision of 11 May 1951 not to oppose a proposed petition to Charlottesville City Council by Mr. E. R. Porter for the re-zoning of his property near Venable Lane, south of Jefferson Park Avenue, to permit his construction of a combination drug store and grocery store, it being understood that Mr. Porter would provide adequate off-street parking space and make his building conform architecturally to University construction.

President Darden presented the following letter from the University Comptroller on behalf of the Scholarship Committee

We now have one hundred (100) Regional Scholarships for Virginians, which the Scholarship Committee feels is quite adequate. However, funds for out-of-state regionals have been very limited and the Scholarship Committee has been most anxious to find ways of increasing the number of these awards, for the following reasons

1\. The duPont funds came from a nonresident of the State, and

2\. The committee feels that the student body will be strengthened by a sprinkling of outstanding boys from other states who would not otherwise be able to attend the University.

Last year and again this year we have received a substantial extra dividend from the duPont Trust. While this money could be spent over a period of years, the committee would like to be assured of a more permanent income for these awards.

If you agree, I would appreciate your bringing to the Board the proposal that the present accumulation of approximately $200,000 be reinvested.

It is contemplated that we would ask the Alumni in various cities to help us in selecting the recipients. We are experimenting this year in Charleston, West Virginia and in Birmingham, Alabama, and the plan has been greeted with considerable enthusiasm by Alumni chapters in these cities.

During the discussion that followed, Colonel Hartfield and Mr. Pollock suggested that the Scholarship Committee give consideration to permitting Virginia students an opportunity to compete for the proposed additional out-of-state scholarships, President Darden said that he would bring this proposal to the attention of the Scholarship Committee for consideration.

The Board thereupon resolved that the Comptroller be authorized to reinvest the accumulation of approximately $200,000, the income to be used for the purposes set forth above in the Comptroller's letter of March 5th.

The President presented the following letter from Mr. Shea:

Mr. Runk and I have discussed various ways of operating the Cavalier Daily. It is our opinion that it would be unwise to discontinue the current support of the Daily by an assessment against the student body. The reason the fee was initially instituted was because student subscriptions were limited largely to entering students and one or two subscriptions per fraternity house. The older boys just would not subscribe sufficiently to cover the operating cost.

It is our recommendation, if you agree, that the Board of Visitors be asked to discontinue the practice of earmarking $4.00 of the $5.00 student publication fee for the Daily and place the entire $5.00 under the control of the Student Activities Committee, which you have recently appointed.

Under such a plan the Cavalier Daily, like any other student activity, would have to justify the amount needed to run the Daily by submitting to the committee a budget of salaries and expenditures, and the amount allocated would be limited to that actually needed. The committee could thus disapprove expensive parties, and large salaries and bonuses to staff members of the Daily. Any saving from the $4.00 per student being currently allocated to the Daily would, thus, be available to support other worthwhile student activities.

After discussion the Board resolved: (1) that the present practice of earmarking $4.00 of the publication fee for the Cavalier Daily and the remaining $1.00 for other student activites be discontinued, and (2) that the entire fee of $5.00 be allocated to the Cavalier Daily and to other student activities by the Student Activities Committee, which shall be charged with authority and responsibility, under the President, to review and approve budgets submitted by the Cavalier Daily and other student activities.

President Darden reported an application from a Negro student, Alphonso Edward Nichols, Jr., of Newport News, Virginia, for admission as a Pre-Medical student in the College of Arts and Sciences. The President said that Mr. Nichols ranks ninth in his class of 192 at Huntington High School and is well qualified for admission.

Mr. Darden pointed out that all of the twenty-two Negro students who are at present enrolled in the University are in graduate and professional schools pursuing specialized studies for which no provision is made in State-supported Virginia institutions for Negroes. The recent decision of the Courts relative to the University of North Carolina, Mr. Darden noted, appeared to make Mr. Nichols' admission legally obligatory on him; but he was bringing this case before the Board because Mr. Nichols, if admitted, would be the first Negro student in the College.

During the extensive discussion that followed, President Darden observed that a case could be made that adequate pre-medical education is not provided by Virginia in a Negro institution, and that he was prepared to admit Mr. Nichols on this ground, thus putting his admission in the same status as that of other Negro students now in the University. Several Visitors argued, however, that this technicality should be avoided, and that, in view of the present concern of the government of Virginia with the related problem in the public schools, the Board ought not to act hastily without consulting higher authority in Richmond. Others felt that the position of the University higher education and the clarity of the legal procedents demanded a prompt decision.

On motion of Judge Smith, seconded by Mr. Gravatt, the Board resolved that action on Mr. Nichols' application be deferred until the Annual Meeting on June 16th, that the President shall in the meantime consult with the Governor and the Attorney General, and that the Rector appoint a special committee of Visitors to participate with the President in this conference.

Judge Bryan and Mr. Pollock asked that their negative votes be recorded.

Mr. McWane roted that he had voted for the resolution out of deference to the present related problems of the Governor, but that he wanted to make clear his opinion that the Board ought to take a definite stand on this matter no later than June.

President Darden and Judge Smith led a discussion of the two-year college in Northern Virginia provided for by the General Assembly of Virginia in contemplation of its becoming a part of the University as proposed by the Board of Visitors' resolution of 14 January 1955.

On tn of Miss Wheeler, seconded by Mrs. Jones, the Board resolved: (1) that the President be authorized to proceed with the planning and preparatory work for the operation of the two-year college on Northern Virginia as a branch of the University of Virginia, and (2) that the President be assisted on the choice of a site for the college by a special committee of Visitors to be named by the Rector.

The President laid before the Board the following letter

Confirming our conversation of this morning, we welcome the opportunity to advise that the layout and design of the proposed Children's Rehabilitation Center has been approved without qualification by representatives of the Clinical Departments most concerned with the project, the Departments of Nursing Service, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Dietary, and the Hospital Administration. It is the impression of all concerned that the building as designed is adequate and admirably suited for the contemplated Children's Rehabilitation Program. Functionally, it will provide for efficient operation both from a clinical and administrative standpoint. The plans have also received favorable review by informed individuals not connected with the University who have had extensive experience in Children's Rehabilitation in the various specialized areas such as clinical care, therapy, nursing and administration.

Mr. Darden reported that the Art Commission had been critical of the proximity of the proposed building to a bank, but said that this was one of the results of the functional requirement of a one-story building: there had also, he said, been criticisms of the modern design of the plans (already approved by the Board) though he felt personally that the distance from the University prevented a discordant effect.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed with the construction of the building on the proposed site as presently planned.

The President laid before the Board University Hospital accounts Schedules 578, 581, 582, 587, 590, 591, 595, 598, and 599, aggregating $93,146.05, as submitted by the Credit Manager and reviewed and certified by the Hospital Accounts Committee to the President with a recommendation for charging off.

After discussion and questions by new members of the Board, it was ordered that a decision be deferred until June, the Rector in the meantime to appoint a special committee to consult with the Hospital Accounts Committee and obtain detailed information on the problem for the information of the Board.

The following letter was laid before the Board by President Darden:

The University Sports Club would like for you to request permission of the Board for the Club to conduct sports car trials on Observatory Mountain sometime early next fall.

The officers assured me that all precautions for safety were required by the Sports Car Club of America, of which the University Club is a member, such as the wearing of safety belts, helmets and the placing of bales of straw on the curves. No races would be conducted by only time trials by individual cars. Participants must be 21 years of age before being eligible to compete, which would eliminate the majority of our students.

After discussion the Board resolved that the University Sports Club be authorized to proceed with the trials, it being understood that the Club would observe the precautions set forth in Mr. Shea's letter.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons by and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:

Dr. Russell S. Ratcliffe, Half-time Instructor in Psychology and Education, salary at rate of $1,620 for session of nine months, incumbency to begin February 1, 1956.

Mrs. Myra Hooper (Iarimore) Irby, Instructor in History and Resident Counselor, salary at rate of $3,240 for session of nine months, incumbency to begin February 1, 1956.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay.

Dr. Charles H. Frick, Professor of Mathematics, an extension through the session of 1956-57 in order to continue the special research work in mathematics (developing techniques for computing basic flight control data for unguided missiles). He is directing for the U. S. Naval Proving Ground at Dahlgren.

Dr. Kurt F. Leidecker, Associate Professor of Philosophy, an extension through the academic year 1956-57 in order to complete the mission in which he is engaged as Cultural Affairs Consultant for the United States Information Service at Bangkok, Thailand. Dr. Leidecker states that for security reasons, he cannot disclose the exact nature of his work.

Mr. William C. Pinschmidt, Jr., Instructor in Biology, for the session of 1956-57 in order to engage in advanced study for the doctor's degree in biology at Duke University.

Chancellor Simpson having reported the request of a male Negro teacher for admission to the College as a day student, there was a discussion of the conditions under which a few male veterans have been admitted in the past.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all future admissions to Mary Washington College, effective as of the present date, be restricted to women students without exception.

The Chancellor informed the Board that an application had been filed by a young Negro woman in Spotsylvania County for admission to the College as a full-time day student in the 1956-57 session. The applicant, it developed, is known to be a graduate of John J. Wright High School, but the admissions authorities of the College have not yet received a transcript of her subsequent record at Morgan College, Baltimore, Maryland. It was accordingly ordered that action on the matter be deferred until the June meeting of the Board. In response to a Visitor's suggestion, the President said that he would in the meantime consult with the Governor and the Attorney General on the policy involved.

The present faculty salary schedule and the new schedule approved by the Governor for the 1956-58 biennial budget were laid before the Board as follows:

The Board resolved that the new salary scale as set forth above be made effective as of September 1956.

The President and the Chancellor informed the Board of negotiations in progress with the City of Fredericksburg for the acquisition by the College as a site for the new science building, of the land adjacent to the campus and surrounding the City Reservoir. The City in turn desires to acquire from the College a portion of the Brompton Tract as a site for a new armory. The City proposes to convey to the College all of the reservoir property, the City retaining the use of the reservoir proper as it is now until such time as it provides new reservoir facilities. Should an emergency arise requiring enlargement of the present facilities, the City would be limited to raising the existing concrete wall not exceeding four (4) feet above the present level. In exchange for the reservoir property, the College proposes to pay the City $8,000 and convey to the City seven acres of land located on the northeast corner of the Brompton tract fronting on the east side of U. S. Alternate Route 1.

In the discussion of the proposal, Mr. Simpson said that the Board's approval in principle to the proposed exchange was requested at present, and that details as worked out by the attorneys would be laid before the Board later when the Visitors would be asked to approve a specific contract. Mr. Darden noted that the price was high, but that the site was needed and the proposal seemed to be as good a bargain as could be made. Mr. Gravatt requested that the appraisals be submitted to the Board at the time the contract is presented, so that they could be made a part of the record.

The Board resolved that the proposed exchange as outlined above be approved in principle, subject to final approval by the Board of a contract to be considered later.

The Chancellor reported on conferences by the science faculties and architects which indicated that the $725,000 appropriated by the General Assembly for the new science building would be barely enough to cover construction of the building, and quite inadequate for its equipment. He requested authorization to use Operating Fund surplus for equipping the building.

The Board adopted after discussion the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Governor, to purchase equipment for the new science building from the operating funds of the College, thus permitting the entire appropriation for the new science building to be used for building construction.

Chancellor Simpson presented the following statement:

"At the time the request was submitted for a new dormitory it was our plan to construct a dormitory housing approximately 100 students. The purpose for requesting a new dormitory was to eliminate Cornell Hall, which is a leased building three or four blocks from the entrance to the College campus.

"We find that we have dormitory rooms in Virginia Hall housing three students that should be reduced to two students. It is felt that it would be better to construct a dormitory to house approximately 176 rather than 100 students in order to reduce the congestion in other locations. For your convenience an analysis of the dormitory capacity reflecting a new dormitory housing 176 students is shown as follows.

"It is our understanding that the Board did not wish to increase the enrollment of the College beyond our present enrollment. Our dining hall facilities will accommodate a maximum of 1,550 students which will take care of the proposed enrollment as shown above.

"We have an appropriation of $192,500 for the construction of a dormitory. It was not intended that this amount would be sufficient to construct a dormitory housing 100 students. The General Assembly intended that revenue bonds be issued to finance the balance of the cost of the building.

"The following is an estimate of the cost of a dormitory housing 176 students and the amount of bonds that would have to be issued.

"We recommend that the College be granted authority to construct a dormitory housing approximately 176 students costing $704,000, including equipment. It is understood that this would require a bond issue of approximately $511,500."

After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to construct a dormitory housing approximately 176 students and costing $704,000, including equipment, subject to approval by the Governor for the requisite bond issue of approximately $511,500.

The Board resolved that the College be authorized to proceed with the elimination of the fire hazards in Virginia Hall as soon as funds shall become available from the $50,000 appropriated by the General Assembly for this purpose.

Referring to his plans to limit enrollment at the College to a figure not exceeding 1600 students, with which there was general approval, the Chancellor presented the following tabulation of advance enrollment for the 1956-57 session, with attached comparative data on withdrawals and enrollment:

In the 1955-56 session we have had fewer students withdraw during the session than in the previous years. For your information, a comparison of withdrawals of this year as compared with last year is shown as follows.

In commenting on advancing academic standards at the College, Mr. Simpson noted that he was encouraging the faculty to apply College Entrance Board Examinations to all out-of-state students and to make use of A. C. E. tests for Virginia students. There were expressions from the Visitors of general approval of this policy.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

As an admirer of Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia, I should like to see a fund or endowment established at the University of Virginia in recognition of his conspicuous service to our country, especially in the field of public finance.

In order to inaugurate such a fund, and in consideration of its acceptance, I submit the following proposal:

I will personally give to the University, or cause to be given through a corporation of which I am president, a sum of not less than $2500.00 nor more than $5,000.00 a year for the next five years, the first payment to be made immediately upon approval by you of the following conditions and subsequent annual payments to be made between November 1st and January 31st, next ensuing.

(a) The fund shall be used presently as a student loan fund for the Graduate School of Business Administration and shall be known as "The Harry Flood Byrd Loan Fund"

(b) The fund shall be handled and administered by such agencies of the University as the Board of Visitors may from time to time designate.

(c) The fund shall be open for additional contributions from other admirers of Senator Byrd and of the University of Virginia.

(d) If and when a Chair of Public Finance should be endowed in your School of Business Administration in honor of Senator Byrd, my contributions may be transferred to that endowment fund.

This proposal has been submitted to President Darden and I am advised it meets with his approval. Senator Byrd has also expressed his approval and has consented that his name may be used for the fund.

We now have one hundred (100) Regional Scholarships for Virginians, which the Scholarship Committee feels is quite adequate. However, funds for out-of-state regionals have been very limited and the Scholarship Committee has been most anxious to find ways of increasing the number of these awards, for the following reasons

1\. The duPont funds came from a nonresident of the State, and

2\. The committee feels that the student body will be strengthened by a sprinkling of outstanding boys from other states who would not otherwise be able to attend the University.

Last year and again this year we have received a substantial extra dividend from the duPont Trust. While this money could be spent over a period of years, the committee would like to be assured of a more permanent income for these awards.

If you agree, I would appreciate your bringing to the Board the proposal that the present accumulation of approximately $200,000 be reinvested.

It is contemplated that we would ask the Alumni in various cities to help us in selecting the recipients. We are experimenting this year in Charleston, West Virginia and in Birmingham, Alabama, and the plan has been greeted with considerable enthusiasm by Alumni chapters in these cities.

Mr. Runk and I have discussed various ways of operating the Cavalier Daily. It is our opinion that it would be unwise to discontinue the current support of the Daily by an assessment against the student body. The reason the fee was initially instituted was because student subscriptions were limited largely to entering students and one or two subscriptions per fraternity house. The older boys just would not subscribe sufficiently to cover the operating cost.

It is our recommendation, if you agree, that the Board of Visitors be asked to discontinue the practice of earmarking $4.00 of the $5.00 student publication fee for the Daily and place the entire $5.00 under the control of the Student Activities Committee, which you have recently appointed.

Under such a plan the Cavalier Daily, like any other student activity, would have to justify the amount needed to run the Daily by submitting to the committee a budget of salaries and expenditures, and the amount allocated would be limited to that actually needed. The committee could thus disapprove expensive parties, and large salaries and bonuses to staff members of the Daily. Any saving from the $4.00 per student being currently allocated to the Daily would, thus, be available to support other worthwhile student activities.

Confirming our conversation of this morning, we welcome the opportunity to advise that the layout and design of the proposed Children's Rehabilitation Center has been approved without qualification by representatives of the Clinical Departments most concerned with the project, the Departments of Nursing Service, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Dietary, and the Hospital Administration. It is the impression of all concerned that the building as designed is adequate and admirably suited for the contemplated Children's Rehabilitation Program. Functionally, it will provide for efficient operation both from a clinical and administrative standpoint. The plans have also received favorable review by informed individuals not connected with the University who have had extensive experience in Children's Rehabilitation in the various specialized areas such as clinical care, therapy, nursing and administration.

The University Sports Club would like for you to request permission of the Board for the Club to conduct sports car trials on Observatory Mountain sometime early next fall.

The officers assured me that all precautions for safety were required by the Sports Car Club of America, of which the University Club is a member, such as the wearing of safety belts, helmets and the placing of bales of straw on the curves. No races would be conducted by only time trials by individual cars. Participants must be 21 years of age before being eligible to compete, which would eliminate the majority of our students.

As an admirer of Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia, I should like to see a fund or endowment established at the University of Virginia in recognition of his conspicuous service to our country, especially in the field of public finance.

In order to inaugurate such a fund, and in consideration of its acceptance, I submit the following proposal:

I will personally give to the University, or cause to be given through a corporation of which I am president, a sum of not less than $2500.00 nor more than $5,000.00 a year for the next five years, the first payment to be made immediately upon approval by you of the following conditions and subsequent annual payments to be made between November 1st and January 31st, next ensuing.

(a) The fund shall be used presently as a student loan fund for the Graduate School of Business Administration and shall be known as "The Harry Flood Byrd Loan Fund"

(b) The fund shall be handled and administered by such agencies of the University as the Board of Visitors may from time to time designate.

(c) The fund shall be open for additional contributions from other admirers of Senator Byrd and of the University of Virginia.

(d) If and when a Chair of Public Finance should be endowed in your School of Business Administration in honor of Senator Byrd, my contributions may be transferred to that endowment fund.

This proposal has been submitted to President Darden and I am advised it meets with his approval. Senator Byrd has also expressed his approval and has consented that his name may be used for the fund.

We now have one hundred (100) Regional Scholarships for Virginians, which the Scholarship Committee feels is quite adequate. However, funds for out-of-state regionals have been very limited and the Scholarship Committee has been most anxious to find ways of increasing the number of these awards, for the following reasons

1\. The duPont funds came from a nonresident of the State, and

2\. The committee feels that the student body will be strengthened by a sprinkling of outstanding boys from other states who would not otherwise be able to attend the University.

Last year and again this year we have received a substantial extra dividend from the duPont Trust. While this money could be spent over a period of years, the committee would like to be assured of a more permanent income for these awards.

If you agree, I would appreciate your bringing to the Board the proposal that the present accumulation of approximately $200,000 be reinvested.

It is contemplated that we would ask the Alumni in various cities to help us in selecting the recipients. We are experimenting this year in Charleston, West Virginia and in Birmingham, Alabama, and the plan has been greeted with considerable enthusiasm by Alumni chapters in these cities.

Mr. Runk and I have discussed various ways of operating the Cavalier Daily. It is our opinion that it would be unwise to discontinue the current support of the Daily by an assessment against the student body. The reason the fee was initially instituted was because student subscriptions were limited largely to entering students and one or two subscriptions per fraternity house. The older boys just would not subscribe sufficiently to cover the operating cost.

It is our recommendation, if you agree, that the Board of Visitors be asked to discontinue the practice of earmarking $4.00 of the $5.00 student publication fee for the Daily and place the entire $5.00 under the control of the Student Activities Committee, which you have recently appointed.

Under such a plan the Cavalier Daily, like any other student activity, would have to justify the amount needed to run the Daily by submitting to the committee a budget of salaries and expenditures, and the amount allocated would be limited to that actually needed. The committee could thus disapprove expensive parties, and large salaries and bonuses to staff members of the Daily. Any saving from the $4.00 per student being currently allocated to the Daily would, thus, be available to support other worthwhile student activities.

Confirming our conversation of this morning, we welcome the opportunity to advise that the layout and design of the proposed Children's Rehabilitation Center has been approved without qualification by representatives of the Clinical Departments most concerned with the project, the Departments of Nursing Service, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy, Dietary, and the Hospital Administration. It is the impression of all concerned that the building as designed is adequate and admirably suited for the contemplated Children's Rehabilitation Program. Functionally, it will provide for efficient operation both from a clinical and administrative standpoint. The plans have also received favorable review by informed individuals not connected with the University who have had extensive experience in Children's Rehabilitation in the various specialized areas such as clinical care, therapy, nursing and administration.

The University Sports Club would like for you to request permission of the Board for the Club to conduct sports car trials on Observatory Mountain sometime early next fall.

The officers assured me that all precautions for safety were required by the Sports Car Club of America, of which the University Club is a member, such as the wearing of safety belts, helmets and the placing of bales of straw on the curves. No races would be conducted by only time trials by individual cars. Participants must be 21 years of age before being eligible to compete, which would eliminate the majority of our students.