Board of Visitors minutes (1961) April 8, 1961
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 8, 1961

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Official minutes

15 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ELECTIONS RE-ELECTIONS RESIGNATIONS APPOINTMENTS LEAVES OF ABSENCE ARMISTEAD MASON DOBIE ARCHITECTS FOR NEW CHEMISTRY BUILDING VISIT OF STATE CAPITAL OUTLAY COMMISSION NAMING OF AUDITORIUM-GYMNASIUM-FIELD HOUSE PROPOSED COMMUNITY COLLEGES AT LYNCHBURG AND COVINGTON-CLIFTON FORGE LOCATION OF CITY PUMPING STATION ADMISSIONS FOR 1961-1962 UNIVERSITY RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS UNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS SALE OF PAGE PROPERTY NEW UNIVERSITY DORMITORIES PROJECT STATEMENT BY LAWRENCE LEWIS, JR. GIFTS AND GRANTS MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS RESOLUTIONS ON DORMITORY BOND ISSUE ARTICLE I. Definitions ARTICLE II. Authorization, Form, Execution, and Delivery of Bonds United States of America State of VirginiaMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DORMITORY REVENUE BOND (SERIES 1961) ONE THOUSAND DOLLARSARTICLE III. Custody and Application of Proceeds of Bonds. ARTICLE IV. Revenues and Funds. ARTICLE V. Investment of Funds. ARTICLE VI. Particular Covenants. ARTICLE VII. Remedies. ARTICLE VIII. Miscellaneous Provisions. ADMISSIONS FOR 1961-1962 GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERS ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 79,120.27

Free service to Counties and Cities

33,223.96

TOTAL

$112,344.23

From Mrs. Mary R. White, to the hospital to be added to the Mary R. White Fund

$ 5,000

From the estate of the late Ellen M. Bagby, to Alderman Library, 4,151 volumes of American and English literary works, valued at

10,460

From Mrs. Mary J. Cronk, to the hospital for recreational supplies for the Pediatrics Floor

100

From William Faulkner Foundation, for scholarships in creative writing

1,000

From University Hospital Auxiliary, Indigent Drug Fund $250, hospital equipment $1,000

1,250

From Boxwood Garden Club, for the restoration of gardens at Carr's Hill

150

From Epsilon Sigma Alpha Fraternity, to be added to the Children's Rehabilitation Center Equipment Fund

240

From Norfolk Foundation, for scholarships in the School of Medicine

6,607

From an anonymous donor, to establish an endowment fund for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship, securities valued at

4,500

From Department of State, to the Law School for the Bolivian Student Leader Seminar

42,690

From U. S. Public Health Service, a supply grant to the Department of Urology

500

From National Council to Combat Blindness, for research under the direction of Dr. R. Brunish, Department of Biochemistry

6,095

From Irwin Strasburger Memorial Medical Foundation, for research under the direction of Dr. G. C. Pitts, Department of Physiology

1,000

From Parke, Davis & Company, for research under the direction of Dr. C. M. Kunin, School of Medicine

3,000

From U. S. Office of Education, in support of a training program under the direction of Prof. R. L. Beard, School of Education

30,635

From the National Science Foundation, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. T. I. Crowell, Department of Chemistry

20,700

Dr. F. A. Geldard, Department of Psychology

75,200

Dr. J. E. Kindred, Department of Anatomy

3,200

From National Science Foundation, for support of a Research Participation for High School Teachers Program under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

7,480

From National Science Foundation, for support of a Research Participation for College Teachers Program under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

10,810

From National Science Foundation, for support of Research Participation for High School Teachers Program under the direction of Dr. J. Rappaport, Department of Biology

6,445

From National Science Foundation, in support of Summer Institute in Science and Mathematics for High School Teachers under the direction of Dr. J. W. Cole, Division of Extension and General Studies

79,300

From U. S. Public Health Service, training grants under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. Oscar Swineford, Department of Internal Medicine

24,346

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

30,184

Miss Margaret Tyson, School of Nursing

8,862

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

12,000

Dr. Ian Stevenson, Department of Neurology and Psychiatry

69,032

Dr. A. E. Feller, Department of Microbiology

$30,600

Dr. J. E. Wood, Department of Internal Medicine

24,948

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Department of Pharmacology

21,278

Dr. G. S. Fitz-Hugh, Department of Otolaryngology

16,122

Dr. Oscar Swineford, Department of Internal Medicine

16,200

From U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the direction of the following members of the faculty:

Dr. L. M. Hall, Department of Biochemistry

24,495

Dr. Q. N. Myrvik, Department of Microbiology

17,963

Dr. C. L. Gemmill, Department of Pharmacology

8,280

Dr. Phyllis Ingram, Department of Surgery

13,225

Dr. C. E. Wheeler, Department of Dermatology

10,784

Dr. J. B. Littlefield, Department of Surgery

7,725

Dr. William Parson, Department of Internal Medicine

18,883

Dr. Alfred Burger, Department of Chemistry

17,882

Dr. W. D. Warren, Department of Surgery

12,788

Dr. V. P. Hollander, Cancer Research Laboratory

12,765

Dr. J. I. Kitay, Department of Internal Medicine

18,453

Dr. A. K. Brown, Department of Pediatrics

19,262

Dr. G. Goldstein, Department of Microbiology

9,120

Dr. A. J. Paquin, Department of Urology

28,369

Dr. W. A. Volk, Department of Microbiology

11,845

Dr. R. G. Kindred, Department of Orthopedics

11,500

Dr. H. S. McGaughey, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

9,775

Dr. R. F. Shaw, Department of Preventive Medicine

15,410

Dr. E. D. Brand, Department of Pharmacology

8,625

Dr. C. M. Kunin, Department of Preventive Medicine

27,646

Dr. J. P. Davison, Department of Preventive Medicine

8,625

Mr. D. R. E. Gourley, Department of Pharmacology

11,123

Dr. R. Brunish, School of Medicine

13,156

From Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Dr. J. W. Beams, Department of Physics

26,396

From Department of the Army, for research under the direction of Drs. Stewart and Coleman, Department of Physics

80,096

From U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for continued research under the direction of Dr. B. van't Riet, Department of Chemistry

9,206

From E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., for research under the direction of Mr. L. B. Johnson, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

16,170

From Wright Air Research & Development Command, for research under the direction Mr. B. Gilpin, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

58,317

From George C. Marshall Space Flight Center, for research under the direction of Messrs. E. Denman and O. R. Harris, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

40,000

From National Science Foundation, to be used for the establishment of a Computer Center

60,000

From Dr. A. del Castillo, to the hospital to be added to the Margaret F. Boggess Fund, securities valued at (No publicity)

8,975

From an anonymous donor, to be added to the Peters Rushton Seminar Fund (No publicity)

250

From Air Force Office of Scientific Research, for research under the direction of Messrs. J. May and B. Gilpin, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences

40,000

Year of Maturity

Principal Amount

1962

$11,000

1963

11,000

1964

14,000

1965

14,000

1966

14,000

1967

16,000

1968

16,000

1969

16,000

1970

18,000

1971

18,000

1972

18,000

1973

18,000

1974

21,000

1975

$21,000

1976

21,000

1977

21,000

1978

23,000

1979

23,000

1980

23,000

1981

26,000

1982

27,000

1983

27,000

1984

27,000

1985

28,000

1986

28,000

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met on this date at 10:00 a.m. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present Rector Albert V. Bryan, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Camp, Coxe, Faulconer, Fenwick, Hartfield, Jones, Kending, Lantor, Lewis, McWane, Martin, Montague, and Pollock. Absent: Visitors Blanton and Wilkerson. Chancellor Grellet C. Simpson and Bursar Edgar E. Woodward were present throughout the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 11 February 1961, previously distributed, were approved.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Mr. Herbert Robinson Blackwell as Junior Instructor in English, half-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $2,450.

Mr. Charles Bunn, as Lecturer in Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $1,500

Mr. Osvaldo Chinchon as Junior Instructor in Romance Languages, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $4,900.

Mr. Everett Uberto Crosby as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $6,900.

Mr. Charles Luther Fry, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Harry Paul Glassman as Instructor in Law, half-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $3,000.

Mr. Francis Russell Hart as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $7,500.

Mr. Paul Edward Kelly as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Dr. Carl S. Lingamfelter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective 1 July 1961, at no salary from the University.

Mr. Philip A. Loomis, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, for the second semester of the 1960-1961 session, at a salary of $2,000.

Mr. Eugene Steven McVey as Acting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $8,800.

Mr. William Craig Stubblebine as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. David Edward Underdown as Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1962, at a salary of $8,300.

Mr. Henry Conrad Warlick as Junior Instructor in English, half-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $2,450.

Mr. David Benson Weaver as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $11,800.

The resolution was adopted unanimously so far as all the elections were concerned, except the election of Mr. Charles Bunn. In Mr. Bunn's case, three negative votes were cast.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty.

Mr. Francis J. Brooke as Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Russian, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. David H. Davis as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Gary Seamans Dunbar as Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Robert Lee Ellison as Assistant Professor of Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1961

Mr. Johan Anton Friedericy as Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Omer Allan Gianniny as Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Fred Campbell McCormick as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. George Bostert Matthews as Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Walter Bedford Moore, III, as Assistant Professor of English in the School of Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Cornelius Francis Murphy, Jr., as Instructor in Law, half-time, for one year, effective 1 September 1961, at a salary of $3,000.

Mr. Edgar F. Thorne as Visiting Associate Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Theodore Turner as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. Bartholomeus van't Riet as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

Mr. David W. Weiss as Assistant Professor of Speech and Drama, for three years, effective 1 September 1961.

The President announced the following resignations

Mr. Allison Burnett, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective 30 June 1961, to accept a position at Western Reserve.

Mr. John E. Moes, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 1 February 1961, to accept a teaching position in Ethiopia.

Mr. Frisby D. Smith, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 1 July 1961, to become Director of Instruction for the Roanoke City Public Schools.

The President announced the following appointments

Mr. Bevin Alexander as Director of Information Services, effective 6 March 1961.

Dr. McLemore Birdsong as Acting Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, for an additional year, effective 1 September 1961.

Dr. Morris McKeehan as Acting Chairman of the Department of Anatomy, for an additional year, effective 1 September 1961.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence

Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Professor of Law, for the period 10 April 1961 to 12 July 1961, without pay.

Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach, Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the 1961-1962 session, without pay, to accept a Fulbright grant to India.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, on this 8th of April 1961, that the President be requested to convey to Judge Armistead Mason Dobie the good wishes of the Board upon his eightieth birthday on next Saturday, 15 April

For more than sixty years Judge Dobie has been an active force in the life of this place as student, teacher, administrator, and alumnus. Throughout these years he has epitomized the best for which the University has stood in the twentieth century. The notable honors and distinctions that he has richly won from year to year as citizen, soldier, scholar, and jurist are too widely recorded and too numerous to be recited in this birthday greeting, he has received them with wit and grace, and he carries them lightly, we take due judicial notice of them and leave them to the library files, the biographers, and the historians.

Two of our present Visitors were fellow students with Armistead Dobie. Five more of us, as his spell-bound pupils, sat at his feet to learn Federal Procedure or to hear him excoriate the "Minks" at football pep rallies before the rest of the world knew him as the standard authority on these subjects. To all of us, he is much more than founding father of the Raven Society and the Colonnade Club - and their leading wit. He is, indeed, a living legend and a University Institution; but beyond all that he is our preceptor and friend. Both corporately and individually, we send him warm greetings and wish him well upon his birthday.

The President noted that he had discussed the matter of the architects for the new Chemistry Building with the Buildings and Grounds Committee at an earlier meeting of that Committee on 25 March 1961. With the approval of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, the President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Louis Kahn and Stainback and Scribner be and they are hereby approved as the Associated Architects for the new Chemistry Building.

The President reported that the State Capital Outlay Commission, which had been appointed by the Governor to report to the Governor and the General Assembly on the capital outlay needs of State institutions for the period 1962-1968, had visited the University and Mary Washington College on 21 March 1961. As a part of his report, the President presented to the Board the list of priorities of capital outlay projects which he had submitted to the Commission for the University and the Community Colleges.

The President proposed the name of University Hall for the new building to be constructed on Copeley Hill for use as a field house, auditorium, and gymnasium. A general discussion ensued as to the proposed name and, on motion by Mr. Lewis and seconded by Mrs. Jones, the proposed motion was tabled until the June meeting.

The President reported that movements had been begun at Lynchburg for the establishment of a community college by persons from the Lynchburg area and that he asked the Chancellor for Community Colleges, Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, to consult with these individuals on the problems involved. He further reported that a day or so prior to this meeting, he had noted in the press, accounts of a meeting of a number of individuals from the Covington-Clifton Forge area with the Governor, following which the Governor apparently had approved the establishment of the college.

The President further stated that the newspaper accounts indicated that the group at Covington and Clifton Forge would approach the University to seek affiliation.

The President pointed out the heavy burden that the two community colleges, which were now a part of the University's system, had created for the several deans, department heads, and administrative people at Charlottesville. He warned the Board that the proposal to affiliate two additional community colleges would add to the already heavy burden and stated that he would exercise extreme care in any negotiations which apparently were about to ensue with the Lynchburg and Covington-Clifton Forge people.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the City of Charlottesville be and it is hereby authorized to construct a pumping station in the general area of the northwest corner of the University Cemetery and Alderman Road, the exact location to be subject to the approval of the President.

At the request of the President, Mr. Marvin B. Perry, Jr., Dean of Admissions, appeared before the Board to discuss the outlook for undergraduate admissions for 1961-1962. He described the changes which the President had made in 1960 which had resulted in the centralization in the Office of the Dean of Admissions of the responsibility for undergraduate admissions to the College of Arts and Sciences, School of Education, School of Engineering, and School of Architecture. He pointed out that a Committee on Undergraduate Admissions advisory to the Dean had been appointed by the President and that at least two and in most instances three members of this Committee read all of the completed applications for admission to these four undergraduate schools. Dean Perry also discussed the outlook for admissions for 1961-1962 and stated that there had been a gratifying increase in the applications for all four undergraduate schools with the heaviest increase occurring in the number of applications for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences. A particularly gratifying increase, he stated, had been secured from Virginia public high schools.

Following Dean Perry's presentation, a general discussion ensued, at the conclusion of which Dean Perry left the room.

At the request of the President, Mr. Paul Saunier, Jr., Assistant to the President for University Relations and Development, appeared before the Board to discuss the organization and program of his office. He described the organization that had been created, including the appointment of Mr. Bevin Alexander as Director of Information Services which had been reported to the Board earlier in the meeting, and the different sources of support to which the University might look for help in its development program. Following Mr. Saunier's presentation, a general discussion ensued, at the conclusion of which Mr. Saunier left the room.

The President stated that, on the preceding evening, he had met with the Athletics Committee to report on the present status of the intercollegiate athletic program. He noted that the new coach, Mr. William Elias, who had appeared before the Committee, had been successful in renewing the interest of the students, players, and alumni in the football program and that the performance of the football squad at the recent alumni game had been very good. He concluded his remarks by noting that the Special Committee was continuing its search for a new athletic director.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts, Schedules, 980, 981, 984, and 985, aggregating $112,344.23, as recommended by it, consisting of the following

President Shannon submitted to the Board a contract executed by Mr. Shea, by which the University agreed to convey to Dr. Charles W. Hurt or his assigns a lot with improvements thereon known as No. 132 Chancellor Street in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, fronting 76 feet, more or less, on the east side of said street, being the same property conveyed to the University by deed of gift from Lucy W. Page, widow, and Mildred N. Page, single, dated 12 October 1934, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Corporation Court of the City of Charlottesville in Deed Book 84, page 232, in which deed a joint life estate was reserved by the grantors, and also the same property in which the life estate of Mildred N. Page was conveyed to the University by deed dated 7 June 1939, of record in said Clerk's Office in Deed Book 99, page 47, the life estate of Lucy W. Page having previously fallen in by reason of her death on 13 October 1938. The consideration for the conveyance is $18,000.00 cash.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President, and Weldon Cooper, Secretary, be and they are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed, subject to the approval of the Governor as required by Section 23-77.1 of the Code of Virginia, (1950, as amended), to execute and deliver a deed of conveyance on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, conveying with special warranty of title to Dr. Charles W. Hurt or his assigns, in consideration of $18,000 cash, the property known as No. 132 Chancellor Street in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, as more fully set out in the contract submitted to this meeting.

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that the President and other officers of this corporation be, and they are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to take such further steps and do such further things as may be necessary to complete this transaction.

The President advised the Board that the General Assembly, at its 1960 session, had authorized the Rector and Visitors to borrow funds for the purpose of erecting not exceeding seven dormitories to house 120 students each, at a total cost not to exceed three million dollars and to issue revenue bonds for the repayment of such loan which bonds shall be payable from the revenue derived from rentals. See Acts of Assembly, 1960, Chapter 425.

Pursuant to this authorization a preliminary application had been filed with the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency for a loan of three million dollars, under its College Housing Program, for the erection of seven dormitories on the property of the University at Charlottesville. The preliminary application was approved by the Agency on 11 January 1961 and the University was advised that a reservation of funds in the amount of three million dollars had been made.

The University had further been advised that final application with all supporting data must be filed with the Agency not later than 11 April 1961. Among other supporting data to be filed with the Final Application a resolution of the Board authorizing the making of the loan application was required.

The proposed loan for $3,000,000 would probably be evidenced by a bond or bonds aggregating that amount bearing interest at the rate of 3½ per cent per annum and would be amortized over a period of 40 years. However, as the first principal payment would not become due until two years after the signing of the loan agreement the loan would be actually amortized over a 38 year period. The annual payment for principal and interest for each $1,000 of the loan at 3½ per cent amortized over a period of 38 years would be approzimately $48.00. It was contemplated that the University would pledge the net revenues to be derived from the operation of the proposed facilities as security for the loan.

The President advised that under Chapter 425 of the Acts of Assembly, 1960, and under the provisions of Title 23, Chapter 3 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the University has the power, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, to issue bonds to finance such a project pledging the net revenues to be derived from the operation of the facilities as security.

The President proposed and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a corporation created and existing under the laws of the State of Virginia, that Vincent Shea, Comptroller of said body corporate, be and he hereby is authorized to make, in the name and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, final application to the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency for loan assistance under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, in the amount of $3,000,000 for the erection of seven dormitories on the property of the University at Charlottesville, and to file the same with said Housing and Home Finance Agency.

Mr. Lewis began his statement with the assertion that the members of the Board needed to have closer relations with the faculty and the long-range planning program of the University. He said that this idea would not in any way result in by-passing the President, but, on the contrary, would help the members of the Board to interpret the University's programs to the people of the State. He stated that, if the members of the Board had a weakness, it was that they could not get down far enough into the University's operations to know what was going on. He distributed copies of a proposal which called for meetings of the Board with the Long-Range Planning Committee and with University officials and faculty members. Following Mr. Lewis' statement, there was a general discussion, but no formal action was taken.

The President stated that he had planned to ask the Deans of the several schools to report on their programs at future meetings of the Board in the same manner as the Dean of Admissions and the Assistant to the President for University Relations and Development had done earlier in this meeting. He said he would consult with Mr. Lewis concerning the accomplishments of the aims which he agreed with Mr. Lewis as being desirable and would be prepared to submit recommendations on the subject at the June meeting.

The President announced the following gifts and grants:

The President submitted to the Board resolutions with respect to the issue of Mary Washington College Dormitory Revenue Bonds, which had been prepared by bond counsel. After careful consideration and full discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Board unanimously adopted the following resolution entitled:

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF $500,000 MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1961) TO PAY A PART OF THE COST OF CONSTRUCTING AND EQUIPPING TWO NEW DORMITORIES AT MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, FREDERICKSBURG, VIRGINIA; PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF SUCH BONDS AND THE INTEREST THEREON FROM REVENUES; AND SETTING FORTH THE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF THE HOLDERS OF SUCH BONDS.

WHEREAS, by Article 4, Chapter 9, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board"), is vested with the supervision, management and control of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia at Fredericksburg, Virginia; and

WHEREAS, by Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended (hereinafter sometimes called the "Act"), Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia at Fredericksburg, Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Institution"), is classified as an educational institution, is declared to be a public body and is constituted a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, by virtue of the Act of the Board, with the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia, is authorized and empowered

(a) to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better equip and improve any building or improvement involving an outlay of a capital nature which may be required by or convenient for the purposes of the Institution, including, without limitation of the foregoing, administration, teaching, lecture and exhibition halls, dormitories, dining halls, laundries, hospitals, infirmaries and all necessary lands,

(b) to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the Institution for any of such purposes, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Treasury Board") and to be payable solely from the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from the project for which the bonds are issued and pledged for their payment, and

(c) to fix and revise from time to time and to charge and collect fees, rents and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of each project for which bonds are issued, and

WHEREAS, in order to alleviate the shortage of housing facilities at the Institution, the Board has heretofore determined to construct and equip two new dormitories, Bushnell Hall and Marshall Hall (said new dormitories to house approximately 290 students and being hereinafter sometimes collectively called the "Project"), and

WHEREAS, by Chapter 716 of the Acts of Virginia of 1956 and by Chapter 642 of the Acts of Virginia of 1958, there has been appropriated by the General Assembly Five Hundred Fifty-one Thousand Three Hundred Dollars ($551,300) to pay a part of the cost of constructing and equipping the Project, and

WHEREAS, the Board has proceeded with all practicable dispatch with the construction and equipment of the Project and the Project is presently in operation, and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of paying the remaining part of the cost of the Project, the Board has determined to issue dormitory revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000), the proceeds of such amount of bonds, together with the appropriation referred to above, being required and being estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project, now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 101. In addition to words and terms elsewhere defined in this resolution, the following words and terms as used in this resolution shall have the following meanings, unless some other meaning is plainly intended

The word "Board" shall mean the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia or, if said Board shall be abolished, the board or body succeeding to the principal functions thereof.

The word "cost", as applied to the Project, shall embrace the cost of construction and all obligations and expenses and all items of cost which are set forth in Section 303 of this resolution.

The term "Current Expenses" shall mean the Board's reasonable and necessary current expenses of maintenance, repair and operation of the Project and shall include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all ordinary and usual expenses of maintenance, repair and operation, which may include expenses not annually recurring, premiums for insurance, and any other expenses required or permitted to be paid by the Board under the provisions of this resolution or by law, but shall not include any reserves for extraordinary maintenance or repair, or any allowance for depreciation, or any general administrative expenses of the Institution, or any deposits or transfers to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created in the State Treasury and designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Interest and Sinking Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Sinking Fund").

The term "fiscal year" shall mean the period commencing on the first day of July and ending on the last day of June of the following year.

Section 102. Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the words "bond", "coupon", "owner", "holder" and "person" shall include the plural as well as the singular number, the word "person" shall include corporations and associations, including public bodies, as well as natural persons, and the word "holder" or "bondholder" when used herein with respect to bonds issued hereunder shall mean the holder of bonds at the time issued and outstanding hereunder

Section 201. For the purpose of paying the remaining part of the cost of the Project, there shall be issued dormitory revenue bonds of the Institution in the aggregate principal amount of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000). The bonds shall be designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961)", shall consist of 500 bonds of the denomination of $1,000 each, numbered 1 to 500, inclusive, shall be dated as of the 1st day of July, 1961, shall be stated to mature (without right of prior redemption), in numerical order, lowest numbers first, on the 1st day of July in the following years and in the following amounts, respectively

and shall bear interest from their date until their payment at a rate or rates not exceeding six per centum (6%) per annum as shall hereafter be determined by the Board and by the Treasury Board, such interest to the respective maturities of the bonds being payable semi-annually on the 1st days of January and July in each year. Both the principal of and the interest on the bonds shall be payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

Section 202. The bonds shall bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia and shall be signed by the Bursar of the Institution, and the official seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia shall be impressed on the bonds. The interest coupons to be attached thereto shall be executed with the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia. The bonds and coupons shall be, respectively, in substantially the following forms

(Form of Bonds)

No .....

$1,000

Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, the educational institution at Fredericksburg, Virginia, for value received, hereby promises to pay, solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth, to the bearer on the 1st day of July, 19..., upon the presentation and surrender hereof, the principal sum of

and to pay, solely from said special fund, interest thereon from the date hereof at the rate of......... ..................per centum (........%) per annum until payment of such principal sum, such interest to the maturity hereof being payable semi-annually on the 1st days of January and July in each year upon the presentation and surrender of the attached coupons representing such interest as the same respectively become due. Both the principal of and the interest on this bond are payable at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which, on the respective dates of payment thereof, is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.

This bond shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, but shall be payable as to both principal and interest solely from the special fund provided therefor as hereinafter set forth.

This bond is one of a duly authorized issue of $500,000 dormitory revenue bonds (hereinafter called the "bonds"), known as "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961)", consisting of bonds maturing in annual instalments on the 1st day of July in the years 1962 to 1986, inclusive, and issued for the purpose of paying a part of the cost of constructing and equipping two new dormitories at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, Fredericksburg, Virginia (said two new dormitories being herein collectively called the "Project"). The proceeds of the bonds, totether with an appropriation of $551,300 by the General Assembly of the State of Virginia are estimated to be sufficient to pay the cost of the Project.

All of the bonds are issued under and pursuant to a resolution (herein called the "Resolution") duly adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (herein sometimes called the "Board") on 8 April 1961. Reference is hereby made to the Resolution for the provisions, among others, with respect to the custody and application of the proceeds of the bonds, the collection and disposition of revenues, the fund charged with and pledged to the payment of the interest on and the principal of the bonds, the nature and extent of the security, the rights, duties, and obligations of the Board and the rights of the holders of the bonds, and, by the acceptance of this bond, the holder hereof assents to all of the provisions of the Resolution.

This bond is issued and the Resolution was adopted under and pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia, particularly Chapter 3, Title 23, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended. The Resolution provides for the fixing, revising, charging, and collecting by the Board of fees, rents, and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project in order that such fees, rents, and charges will be sufficient to provide funds to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the Project and to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable. The Resolution also provides for the deposit of a sufficient amount of such fees, rents, and charges over and above such cost of maintenance, repair, and operation, to the credit of a special fund designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Interest and Sinking Fund", to pay the principal of and the interest on the bonds as the same shall become due and payable, and said special fund is pledged to and charged with the payment of such principal and interest.

As declared by said Chapter 3, this bond shall be fully negotiable within the meaning and for all the purposes of Chapter 10, Title 6, Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.

All acts, conditions, and things required by the Constitution and laws of the State of Virginia and the rules and regulations of the Board to happen, exist and be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond have happened, exist and have been performed as so required.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia have caused this bond to be issued in the name of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia and have caused this bond to bear the facsimile signature of the Rector of the University of Virginia and to be signed by the Bursar of said College, and the official seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to be impressed hereon, and the attached interest coupons to be executed with the facsimile signature of said Rector, all as of the 1st day of July, 1961

........................................ Bursar of Mary Washington College, of the University of Virginia

........................................ Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia

(Form of Coupons)

No...............

$................

On ...........................1, 19...,

Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, the educational institution at Fredericksburg, Virginia, will pay to bearer at the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia, upon presentation and surrender hereof the sum of .......................... Dollars in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, solely from the special fund referred to in, and for the semiannual interest then due upon, its Dormitory Revenue Bond (Series 1961), dated as of 1 July 1961, No..................

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Rector of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia.

Section 203. The proceeds (including accrued interest) of the bonds shall be paid into the State Treasury and deposited to the credit of the special fund hereinafter created and designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Construction Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Construction Fund")

Section 204. In case any bond issued hereunder shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost, the Board shall cause to be executed a new bond of like date, number and tenor in exchange and substitution for and upon the cancellation of such mutilated bond and its interest coupons, if any, or in lieu of and in substitution for such bond and its coupons, if any, destroyed or lost, upon the holder's paying the reasonable expenses and charges of the Board in connection therewith and, in the case of a bond destroyed or lost, his filing with the Board evidence satisfactory to the Board that such bond and coupons, if any, were destroyed or lost, and of his ownership thereof, and furnishing the Board with indemnity satisfactory to the Board.

Section 301. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Construction Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Construction Fund"), to the credit of which there shall be deposited the proceeds of the bonds required to be so deposited by Section 203 of this resolution. The moneys in the Construction Fund shall be held in trust and applied to the payment of the cost of the Project and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the future security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided.

Section 302. Payment of the cost of the Project shall be made from the Construction Fund and from the appropriation referred to in the preambles of this resolution, all as provided by law.

Section 303. For the purposes of this resolution the cost of the Project shall include, without intending thereby to limit or restrict or to extend any proper definition of such cost under any applicable laws of this resolution, the following

(a) obligations incurred for labor and materials and to contractors, builders and material-men in connection with the Project,

(b) interest accruing upon the bonds prior to and during construction of the Project,

(c) taxes or other municipal or governmental charges lawfully levied or assessed during construction upon the Project or any property acquired therefor, and premiums on insurance, if any, in connection with the Project during construction,

(d) fees and expenses of engineers and architects for surveys and estimates and other preliminary investigations, preparation of plans, drawings and specifications and supervising construction, as well as for the performance of all other duties of engineers and architects in relation to construction of the Project or the issuance of bonds therefor,

(e) expenses of administration properly chargeable to the Project, legal expenses and fees, financing charges, cost of audits and of preparing and issuing the bonds, and all other items of expense not elsewhere in this Section specified incident to the construction of the Project and the placing of the Project in operation,

(f) any obligation or expense heretofore or hereafter incurred by the Board or by any other agency of the State of Virginia for any of the foregoing purposes.

Section 304. When the Project shall have been completed, as evidenced by a certificate signed by the Chancellor or the Bursar of the Institution and filed with the Secretary to the Board, any balance in the Construction Fund not deemed by the Board to be necessary to be reserved and so reserved by it for the payment of any remaining part of the cost of the Project shall be transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund.

Section 401. The Board covenants that it will at all times fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project, and that from time to time and as often as it shall appear to be necessary it will revise such fees, rents and charges in order that such fees, rents, and charges will at all times be sufficient to provide for the payment of the Current Expenses and to provide for making deposits to the credit of the Sinking Fund in each fiscal year under the provisions of Section 404 of this Article of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the interest which will become due and payable on 1 January of such fiscal year and of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on 1 July of the next ensuing fiscal year.

Section 402. The Board covenants that, notwithstanding any other facilities which may now or hereafter be available for the housing of students at the Institution, it will require a sufficient number of students at the Institution to use and occupy the Project and will adopt and enforce such parietal and other rules and regulations as will assure that the Project will be fully utilized at all times during the regular school session at the Institution and will be utilized to the fullest extent practicable at all times during any summer school session at the Institution. The Board further covenants that there shall be no free student occupancy of the Project.

Section 403. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Revenue Fund" (hereinafter sometimes called the "Revenue Fund"). The Board covenants that all fees, rents, charges, and other revenues derived from the operation or ownership of the Project will be collected by the Board and deposited to the credit of the Revenue Fund. Payment of Current Expenses shall be made from the Revenue Fund as provided by law.

Section 404. A special fund is hereby created in the State Treasury and designated "Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) Interest and Sinking Fund" (herein sometimes called the "Sinking Fund"). The Board covenants that, on or before the 20th day of December in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the interest which will become due and payable on 1 January of such fiscal year and that, on or before the 20th day of June in each fiscal year, it will provide for the transfer from moneys held for the credit of the Revenue Fund to the credit of the Sinking Fund of an amount equal to one hundred ten per centum (110%) of the principal and interest which will become due and payable on 1 July of the next ensuing fiscal year, provided, however, that if the amount so transferred to the credit of the Sinking Fund in any December or June shall be less than the required amount, the requirement therefor shall nevertheless be cumulative and the amount of any deficiency in any December or June shall be added to the amount otherwise required to be transferred in each December or June thereafter until such time as such deficiency shall have been made up, and provided, further, that when the moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall equal the principal of the outstanding bonds and the interest which will become due and payable thereon to their respective maturities, no further transfer need be made to the credit of the Sinking Fund. The balance in the Revenue Fund, if any, after making any transfer under the provisions of this Section shall be used for the purposes of the Institution as provided by law.

Section 405. Subject to the provisions of this resolution, moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied (a) to the payment of interest upon the bonds as such interest becomes due and payable, or (b) to the payment of the principal of the bonds at their respective maturities, and such moneys are hereby pledged to and charged with the payments mentioned in this Section.

Section 406. The moneys in the Revenue Fund and the Sinking Fund shall be held in trust and applied as hereinabove provided and, pending such application, shall be subject to a lien and charge in favor of the holders of the bonds issued and outstanding under this resolution and for the further security of such holders until paid out or transferred as herein provided.

Section 407. All bonds and interest coupons shall be cancelled upon their payment. Such bonds and coupons may be cremated by the State Treasurer, who shall execute a certificate of cremation in duplicate describing the bonds and coupons so cremated except that the numbers of the bonds to which such coupons appertain may be omitted unless otherwise directed by the Board, and one executed certificate shall be filed with the Bursar of the Institution and the other executed certificate shall be retained by the State Treasurer.

Section 501. Moneys held for the credit of the Construction Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and the interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States Government which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption by the holder thereof at the option of such holder, not later than ninety (90) days after the date of such investment.

Moneys held for the credit of the Sinking Fund shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be invested and reinvested by the State Treasurer in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and the interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States Government which shall mature, or which shall be subject to redemption by the holder thereof at the option of such holder, not later than 1 July 1986.

Section 502. Obligations so purchased as an investment of moneys in any such Fund shall be deemed at all times to be a part of such Fund, and the interest accruing thereon and any profit realized from such investment shall be credited to such Fund, and any loss resulting from such investment shall be charged to such Fund. The State Treasurer shall sell at the best price obtainable or present for redemption any obligations so purchased whenever it shall be necessary so to do in order to provide moneys to meet any payment or transfer from any such Fund. Neither the State Treasurer nor the Board shall be liable or responsible for any loss resulting from any such investment.

Section 601. The Board covenants that it will promptly pay the principal of and the interest on each and every bond issued under the provisions of this resolution at the place, on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in said bonds and in the coupons appertaining thereto, accordint to the true intent and meaning thereof. The principal and interest are payable solely from the revenues derived from the ownership or operation of the Project, which revenues are hereby pledged to the payment thereof in the manner and to the extent hereinabove particularly specified, and nothing in the bonds or in this resolution shall be deemed to constitute the bonds a debt of the State of Virginia or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State, nor shall the bonds ever be or become a charge against the State of Virginia.

Section 602. The Board covenants that it will establish and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the use of the Project and the operation thereof, that all compensation, salaries, fees and wages paid by it in connection with the maintenance, repair and operation of the Project will be reasonable, that it will maintain and operate the Project in an efficient and economical manner, that, from the revenues of the Project, it will at all times maintain the same in good repair and in sound operating condition and will make all necessary repairs, renewals, and replacements, that it will observe and perform all of the terms and conditions contained in the Act, and that it will comply with all valid acts, rules, regulations, orders, and directions of any legislative, executive, administrative, or judicial body applicable to the Project.

Section 603. The Board covenants that it will not create or suffer to be created any lien or charge upon the Project or any part thereof or upon the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the lien and charge of the bonds secured hereby upon such revenues, and that, from such revenues or other available funds, it will pay or cause to be discharged, or will make adequate provision to satisfy and discharge, within sixty (60) days after the same shall accrue, all lawful claims and demands for labor, material, supplies, or other objects which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the Project or any part thereof or the revenues therefrom, provided, however, that nothing in this Section contained shall require the Board to pay or cause to be discharged, or make provision for, any such lien or charge so long as the validity thereof shall be contested in good faith and by appropriate legal proceedings.

Section 604. Notwithstanding any other provision of this resolution, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Board from paying all or any part of the Current Expenses from any funds available to the Board for such purpose, or from depositing any funds available to the Board for such purpose in the Sinking Fund for the payment of the interest on or the principal of the bonds issued under the provisions of this resolution.

Section 605. The Board covenants that from and after the time when the contractors or any of them engaged in constructing the Project or any part thereof shall cease to be responsible, pursuant to the provisions of the respective contracts for the construction of the Project or such part, for loss or damage to the Project or such part occurring from fire or lightning, it will insure and at all times keep the Project or such part insured with a responsible insurance company or companies, qualified to assume the risk thereof, against physical loss or damage caused by fire or lightning, with such exceptions as are ordinarily required by insurers of structures of facilities of similar type, in an amount not less than eighty per centum (80%) of the replacement value of the Project or such part, less depreciation, provided, however, that such amount of insurance shall at all times be sufficient to comply with any legal or contractual requirement which, if breached, would result in assumption by the Board of a portion of any loss or damage as a co-insurer, and such insurance may provide for the deduction from each claim for loss or damage (except in case of a total loss) of not more than two per centum (2%) of the total amount of insurance required by the application of the co-insurance clause, and provided, further, that if at any time the Board shall be unable to obtain such insurance to the extent above required, either as to amount of such insurance or as to the risks covered thereby or the deductible provision thereof, it will not constitute an event of default under the provisions of this resolution if the Board shall carry such insurance to the extent reasonably obtainable.

The proceeds of such insurance shall be available for, and shall to the extent necessary be applied to, the repair, replacement or reconstruction of the damaged or destroyed property. If such proceeds are more than sufficient for such purpose, the balance remaining shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund. If such proceeds, with other available funds, shall be insufficient for such purpose, such proceeds shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund or shall be used to purchase bonds, as the Board by resolution may determine.

Section 606. The Board covenants that no contract or contracts will be entered into or any action taken by which the rights of the bondholders might be impaired or diminished.

Section 607. The Board covenants that it will keep an accurate record of the total cost of the Project, of the fees, rents, charges and other revenues collected, and of the application of such revenues. Such records shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspection of all interested persons

The Board further covenants that, if so requested in writing by any bondholder within the month of July after the close of any fiscal year, it will cause the Bursar of the Institution to make a report from the books and accounts relating to the Project for the preceding fiscal year. Within the next two months copies of such report shall be filed with the Secretary to the Board and the State Treasurer and shall be mailed by the Bursar to all bondholders who shall have filed their names and addresses with the Bursar for such purpose. Each such report shall set forth in respect of the preceding fiscal year an income and expense account for the Project, the percentage of use of the Project, the details of all bonds paid, the amount on deposit at the end of such fiscal year to the credit of each Fund created under the provisions of this resolution and the details of any investment thereof, a schedule of all insurance policies which are then in effect, stating with respect to each policy the name of the insurer, the amount, number and expiration date, and the hazards and risks covered thereby, and also the findings of the Bursar as to whether the moneys received by the Board under the provisions of this resolution during such fiscal year have been applied in accordance with the provisions of this resolution and whether the Board is in default of any of the covenants contained in Sections 401 and 402 of this resolution.

Section 608. The Board covenants that it will not sell or otherwise dispose of or encumber the Project or any part thereof and will not create or permit to be created any charge or lien on the revenues therefrom ranking equally with or prior to the charge or lien of the bonds secured hereby on such revenues. The Board may, however, sell or dispose or permit the sale or disposal by the Institution of any furniture, fixtures, apparatus, tools, instruments, or other movable property acquired for or in connection with the Project or any materials used in connection therewith, if the Board shall determine by resolution that such articles are no longer needed or are no longer useful in connection with the construction of the Project or the operation and maintenance of the Project. The proceeds of any sale made under the authority of this Section shall be deposited to the credit of the Sinking Fund.

Section 701. In case the time for the payment of any coupon shall be extended, whether or not such extension be by or with the consent of the Board, such coupon shall not be entitled in case of default hereunder to the benefit or security of this resolution except subject to the prior payment in full of the principal of all bonds then outstanding and of all coupons the time for the payment of which shall not have been extended.

Section 702. Each of the following events is hereby declared an "event of default", that is to say. If

(a) payment of the principal of any of the bonds shall not be made when the same shall become due and payable, or

(b) payment of any instalment of interest shall not be made within thirty (30) days after the same shall become due and payable, or

(c) the Board shall for any reason be rendered incapable of fulfilling its obligations hereunder, or

(d) the Project or any part thereof shall be destroyed or damaged and shall not be promptly repaired, replaced, or reconstructed (whether such failure promptly to repair, replace or reconstruct the same be due to the impracticability of such repair, replacement, or reconstruction or to lack of funds therefor or for any other reason), or

(e) final judgment for the payment of money shall be rendered against the Board as a result of its ownership or operation of the Project and any such judgment shall not be discharged within sixty (60) days from the entry thereof or an appeal shall not be taken therefrom or from the order, decree, or process upon which or pursuant to which such judgment shall have been granted or entered, in such manner as to stay the execution of or levy under such judgment, order, decree, or process or the enforcement thereof, or

(f) an order or decree shall be entered, with the consent or acquiescence of the Board, appointing a receiver or receivers of the Project or any part thereof or of the revenues thereof, or if such order or decree, having been entered without the acquiescence or consent of the Board, shall not be vacated or discharged or stayed on appeal within sixty (60) days after entry thereof, or

(g) the Board shall default in the due and punctual performance of any other of the covenants, conditions, agreements and provisions contained in the bonds or in this resolution on the part of the Board to be performed, and such default shall continue for thirty (30) days after written notice specifying such default and requiring same to be remedied shall have been given to the Board by any bondholder.

Section 703. Upon the happening and continuance of any event of default specified in Section 702 of this Article, then and in every such case any bondholder may proceed, subject to the provisions of Section 705 of this Article, to protect and enforce the rights of the bondholders by a suit, action or special proceeding in equity or at law, either for the specific performance of any covenant or agreement contained herein or in aid or execution of any power herein granted or for the enforcement of any proper legal or equitable remedy as such bondholder shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights.

Section 704. In case any proceeding taken by any bondholder on account of any default shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Board and the bondholders shall be restored to their former positions and rights, respectively, and all rights and remedies of the bondholders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken.

Section 705. No holder of any of the bonds shall have any right in any manner whatever to affect, disturb, or prejudice the security of this resolution or to enforce any right hereunder, except in the manner herein provided, and all proceedings at law or in equity shall be instituted, had and maintained for the equal benefit of all bondholders.

Section 706. No remedy herein conferred on the bondholders is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy or remedies, and each and every remedy conferred shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute.

Section 707. No delay or omission of any bondholder to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein, and every power and remedy given by this Article to the bondholders may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient.

Section 801. All covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board contained in this resolution shall be deemed to be covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements of the Board to the full extent authorized or permitted by law, and all such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be binding upon the successor or successors thereof from time to time and upon any officer, board, body or commission to whom or to which any power or duty affecting such covenants, stipulations, obligations and agreements shall be transferred by or in accordance with law.

No covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement herein contained shall be deemed to be a covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement of any present or future member, agent or employee of the Board in his individual capacity, and neither the Governor of the State of Virginia nor the members of the Board or of any other agency of the State of Virginia nor any officer thereof, present or future, executing the bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof.

Section 802. Any notice, demand, direction, request or other instrument authorized or required by this resolution to be given to or filed with the Board shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or filed for all purposes of this resolution if and when sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Section 803. The officers and agents of the Board are hereby authorized and directed to do all acts and things required of them by the provisions of the bonds and this resolution for the full, punctual and complete performance of all the terms, covenants, provisions and agreements contained in the bonds and this resolution.

Section 804. In case any one or more of the provisions of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons issued hereunder shall for any reason be held to be illegal or invalid, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect any other provision of this resolution or of the bonds or coupons, but this resolution and the bonds and coupons shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had not been contained therein. In case any covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement contained in the bonds or in this resolution shall for any reason be held to be in violation of law, then such covenant, stipulation, obligation or agreement shall be deemed to be the covenant, stipulation, obligation, or agreement of the Board to the full extent permitted by law.

Section 805. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor and the Treasury Board.

After further consideration and discussion, upon motion duly made and seconded, the Board unanimously adopted the following resolution entitled

A RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE SALE OF $500,000 MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA DORMITORY REVENUE BONDS (SERIES 1961).

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes called the "Board") has this day duly adopted a resolution authorizing the issuance of $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961), and

WHEREAS, the Board deems it advisable to sell said bonds at this time, now, therefore,

BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

Section 1. The State Treasurer of the State of Virginia is hereby authorized and directed to solicit bids from various financial and investment banking institutions in the State of Virginia, and from such other institutions which may express an interest in bidding for the bonds, for the purchase of the $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961). Sealed bids are to be received for and on behalf of the Board at the office of the State Treasurer, in the City of Richmond, Virginia, until 12 o'clock Noon, Eastern Daylight Savings Time, 2 June 1961, at which time and place the bids received will be publicly opened and read on behalf of the Board.

No bid for less than all of the bonds or for less than par and accrued interest will be entertained. Bidders are requested to name the interest rate, not exceeding 6% per annum, in a multiple of 1/8 or 1/20 of 1%. The bonds will be awarded to the bidder offering the highest price for the lowest interest rate bid upon the bonds.

Each bid must be submitted on a form to be furnished by the State Treasurer, must be enclosed in a sealed envelope marked "Bid for $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961)", and should be addressed to the "Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, c/o State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, Room 101, Finance Building, Richmond, Virginia". Each bid must be accompanied by a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia in an amount equal to $10,000. Award or rejection of bids will be made by the Board on the date above stated for the receipt of bids, and the checks of unsuccessful bidders will be returned immediately. The award of the bonds will be subject to the consent and approval of the Governor of the State of Virginia and the Treasury Board of the State of Virginia. The check of the successful bidder will be held uncashed as security for the performance of his bid, but, in the event the successful bidder shall fail to comply with the terms of his bid, the check may then be cashed and the proceeds retained as and for full liquidated damages. The bonds will be delivered on or about 6 July 1961, in the office of the State Treasurer in the City of Richmond, Virginia.

The unqualified approving opinion of Mitchell, Pershing, Shetterly & Mitchell, New York City, will be furnished without cost to the purchasers. There will also be furnished the usual closing papers, including a certificate, dated as of the day of the delivery of the bonds, stating that there is no litigation pending or, to the knowledge of the signer of such certificate, threatened affecting the validity of the bonds

Further information relating to the above bonds will be furnished upon application to the State Treasurer

The right to reject any or all bids is reserved by the Board.

Section 2. The form referred to in Section 1 above and on which all bids for the purchase of the $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961) are required to be made shall be substantially as follows

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 8 April 1961, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961), dated as of 1 July 1961, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $10,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordancw with said resolutions.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

(No addition or alteration, except as provided above, is to be made to this bid.)

Section 3. The officers and agents of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia are hereby authorized and directed to do all the acts and things required of them by the bonds and by this resolution, for the full, punctual and complete performance of all the terms, covenants, provisions and agreements contained in the bonds and in this resolution.

Section 4. The Secretary to the Board is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Governor and the Treasury Board.

The Chancellor presented a detailed report on the current status of admissions to Mary Washington College for 1961-1962. He said that extreme care was being taken to be sure that fully qualified Virginia students who applied before 1 February 1961 would be admitted in September 1961. As a part of his discussion, he took note of the letter addressed to the Rector, with copies to each Visitor, dated 5 April 1961, from Mr. Harrison Mann, a member of the House of Delegates from Arlington County, in which Mr. Mann criticized the administration of the admissions program at Mary Washington College. Mr. Mann's chief point of complaint was that Mary Washington College, through a deliberate policy of not requesting new dormitories, had restricted its enrollment, with the result that qualified Virginia students could not gain entrance to the College. The Chancellor reported in detail on the statement by Mr. Mann and pointed out that fully qualified Virginia students who applied before 1 February of each year would be admitted to the College.

Following the Chancellor's presentation, a general discussion ensued as to the steps to be taken to answer Mr. Mann's criticism. After the discussion, the following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the letter by Harrison Mann directed to the Rector of the University and dated 5 April 1961, be and it is hereby referred to the Mary Washington College Committee which, with the assistance of the President and the Chancellor of Mary Washington College, is hereby directed to report to the Board on the matter at the next meeting in June.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College

Mr. Gunther Herman Ruff as Lecturer in Economics, for the second semester of the 1960-1961 session, at a salary of $875.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 8 April 1961, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961), dated as of 1 July 1961, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $10,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordancw with said resolutions.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Subject to the provisions and in accordance with the terms of the resolutions duly adopted by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 8 April 1961, which resolutions are hereby made a part of this bid, we offer to pay \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Dollars ($\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_), plus accrued interest to the date of delivery, for all, but no part less than all, of $500,000 Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia Dormitory Revenue Bonds (Series 1961), dated as of 1 July 1961, bearing interest at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_% per annum

We enclose herewith a certified or bank cashier's or treasurer's check for $10,000 payable to the order of the State Treasurer of the State of Virginia, which check is to be applied in accordancw with said resolutions.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_