Board of Visitors minutes (1966) October 7, 1966
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 7, 1966

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 207 Minor Hall 7 October 1966
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 7 October 1966 in the Office of the President with the following members present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Faulconer, A. S. Harrison, Jr., Hobbs, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Parrish, and Walker. Absent: Visitors J. Hartwell Harrison, Wilkinson, and Williams. Grellet C. Simpson was present during the consideration of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 3 June 1966, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert L. Bernd as Lecturer in Commerce, one-eighth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Adriaan Blaauw as Lecturer in Astronomy, for one month, effective 15 October 1966, at a salary of $.Mr. Eric M. Clive as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Hugh M. Clokie as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jay D. Cook, Jr. as Lecturer in Commerce, one-eighth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1966, at a salary of $.Mr. Jerry N. Crout as Junior Instructor in Physics, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas F. Feeny as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ephraim Fischoff as Visiting Professor of Sociology, one-sixth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Susan L. Foard as Junior Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 October 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Frederic H. Ford as Junior Instructor in Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edward G. Foss as Lecturer in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Allen A. Futral, Jr. as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 November 1966.Dr. Taher El Gammal as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 15 August 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Anthony W. Graziano, Jr. as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. David B. Hamilton as Junior Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. James A. Hardell as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. J. Lawrence Herson, II as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert L. Hill as Lecturer in Architecture, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $Mr. David C. Hodge as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 November 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Miss Elisabeth M. Holscher as Junior Instructor in German, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $3,200.Mr. Daniel M. Hurley as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph C. Hutchinson as Lecturer in Education, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1966, at a salary of $.Mr. Acar Isin as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Diane G. Kelly as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Roger Kerridge as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Janet M. Levy as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Dr. Ernest E. McCoy as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 August 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Frank M. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Dr. Robert E. Merrill as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William I. Neikirk as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 15 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Maurice Nelles as Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Arnold Pearlman as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frank O. Perkins as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Douglas F. Powers as Lecturer in Special Education, one-tenth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Karl Richter as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss America Salazar as Junior Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Piero Sartogo as Lecturer in Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. W. Cullen Sherwood as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, three semester-hours, for one semester, effective 1 February 1967, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert A. Smoak as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Nick Sperelakis as Professor of Physiology, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Richard L. Stafford as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Miss Mary B. Sturdivant as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Arthur L. Thiele as Lecturer in Radiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Terry M. Turner as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jack Wakley as Assistant Professor of Radiologic Physics, for one year, effective 8 August 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Alan A. Walters as Visiting Professor of Economics, one-fifth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1966, at a salary of $.Mr. Gunther M. Weil as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for two years, effective 1 October 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Richardo N. Zapata as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF DR. SAMUEL K. MORGAN AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PEDIATRICS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Samuel K. Morgan as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1966, as approved by the Board on 12 February 1966, be and it is hereby cancelled.

ELECTION OF LIBRARIANS TO FACULTY
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the library staffs of the University be and they are hereby elected to the General Faculty, without change in salary or benefits, to be listed in the appropriate faculty sections of University catalogues by the title of the library position only:Mr. Roger P. Bristol, Engineering Librarian, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. William H. Runge, Curator of Rare Books, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs, Reference Librarian, to rank as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.

ELECTION OF MR. MAURICE NELLES AS ELEANOR F. AND PHILIP G. RUST PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Maurice Nelles be and he is hereby elected Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective 1 September 1966.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Thomas S. Edwards as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.Miss Ruth V. Moran as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 February 1967, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Esmond D. V. Nicoll as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. WILMOT H. WEBB AS ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF AEROSPACE ENGINEERING
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of and the special salary action for Mr. Wilmot H. Webb as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, as approved by the Board on 3 June 1966, be and they are hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Harry T. Antrim, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Lyle R. Fisher, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 February 1967, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Marilyn H. Grundig, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 July 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Major Thomas W. Littlejohn, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Military Science, effective 20 April 1966.Dr. White M. Wallenborn, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. George E. Boyd, Professor of Chemistry and Member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, for the period 1 September 1966 through 31 December 1966, without pay, to complete research under way at Oak Ridge National Laboratories.Mr. James M. Buchanan, Paul G. McIntire Professor of Economics, for the period 1 February 1967 through 30 June 1967, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the London School of Economics.Mr. William O. Freithaler, Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period 1 September 1966 through 31 January 1967, without pay, to engage in economic research in Latin America.Mr. Billy J. Gilpin, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period 1 September 1966 through 31 January 1967, without pay, to complete work toward a doctoral degree at North Carolina State University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Martha A. Carpenter, from Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology, to Assistant Professor of Surgical Cardiology and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $Mr. William A. Elwood, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Donald K. Fry, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Phillip F. Herring, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. James S. Howland, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Mu S. Jhon, from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John J. Kirby, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Law, to Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. John P. Lipkin, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. John H. Moore, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John T. Roberts, from Acting Assistant Professor of Hindi and Linguistics, to Assistant Professor of Hindi and Linguistics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edward J. White, from Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1966.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. M. Shannon Allen, Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Phillip M. Allen, Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. James H. Bash, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William F. Beazer, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966Mr. C. Julian Bishko, Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Oliver B. Bobbitt, Jr., Professor of Clinical Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. John W. Boring, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, one-third time, for one year, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John Buckman, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Bernard W. Busse, Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Joseph M. Carriere, Professor of French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Acting Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Lillie O. Chang, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert V. Coleman, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Weldon Cooper, Professor of Government, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Lawrence Cranberg, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Paul T. David, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. James D. Deck, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr Fritz E. Dreifuss, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., University Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Herbert Emmerich, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Miss Frances Farmer, Associate Professor and Law Librarian, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Frank W. Finger, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Eugene A. Foster, Associate Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Mark G. Foster, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George J. Galasso, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Samuel J. Goldstein, Jr., Associate Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley, Professor of Pharmacology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Charles O. Gregory, John B. Minor Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Otto F. Hagena, Research Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 October 1966.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Thomas T. Hammond, Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Richard H. Henneman, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Eric D. Hirsch, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. William S. Jordan, Jr., Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George C. Kinnear, Instructor in English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Julian I. Kitay, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. John G. Kroll, Associate Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Calvin M. Kunin, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. Jan Langman, Harvey E. Jordan Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. H. Gordon Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Alan M. Lefer, Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. James B. Littlefield, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. William B. Looney, Associate Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Robert E. Lutz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Regina C. McCormack, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Carl McFarland, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Instructor in Philosophy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Richard A. Meade, Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. J. Lawrence Meem, Jr., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. David D. Meisel, Instructor in Astronomy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Ronald P. Melnik, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of $, effective 1 October 1966.Mr. John W. Mitchell, William Barton Rogers Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell, Professor of Geology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. L. Gaston Moffatt, Professor of Romance Languages, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Wilhelm Moll, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Frederick T. Morse, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Charles P. Nash, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Martin G. Netsky, Professor of Neuropathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. David S. Newcombe, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Frederick D. Nichols, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William B. O'Neal, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Hermon M. Parker, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Miss Carole A. Pieroni, Instructor in Romance Languages, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Grover C. Pitts, Associate Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George W. Pugh, Visiting Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, for one year, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert L. Ramey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. L. Starling Reid, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. James C. Respess, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Laurens H. Rhinelander, ProfessorLaw, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Melville P. Roberts, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Morris E. Rose, Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Raymond A. Rousseau, Instructor in Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Miss Catherine M. Russell, Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. Emanuel E. Schwartz, Associate Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Frank M. Shepard, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. William M. Sheppe, Jr., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Edward R. Slaughter, Associate Professor of Physical Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Burke M. Smith, Associate Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. David E. Smith, Professor of Pathology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Edward C. Stevenson, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Lever F. Stewart, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Floyd Stovall, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Union Bag-Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Otis L. Updike, Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Virgil S. Ward, Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Peyton E. Weary, Associate Professor of Dermatology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Joseph B. Wennik, Instructor in German, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of $, plus $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Alumni Professor of Mathematics and Member of the Center for Advanced Studies in the Sciences, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Doris K. Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf, Wills-Johnson Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Edward H. Winter, Professor of Anthropology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Charles K. Woltz, Professor of Law, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. J. Edwin Wood, III, Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Assistant Professor of Urology, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. John C. Wyllie, Professor and Librarian of the University System, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. William Zuk, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Johan Zwaan, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF SPECIAL SALARY ACTION FOR DR. ALFRED J. BOLLET
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the special salary action for Dr. Alfred J. Bollet, Professor of Preventive Medicine and Internal Medicine, as approved by the Board of Visitors on 3 June 1966, be and it is hereby changed from 1 February 1967to 1 July 1966.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Alfred J. Bollet, Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at the Medical College of Georgia.Dr. Audrey K. Brown, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at the University of Georgia.Mr. Leo M. Hall, Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at the University of Alabama Medical School.Mr. Walter L. Heilbronner, Associate Professor of German, effective 30 June 1966, to become Vice-president at the State University College at Cortland, New York.Dr. Frederick C. Holland, Jr., Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology, effective 15 July 1966, to accept the position of Director of the Laboratory at Emerson Hospital, Concord, Massachusetts.Mr. Jack O. Howell, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 14 August 1966, to accept a two-year assignment with the Agency for International Development.Mr. Leonard Levine, Associate Professor of Physiology, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at Pacific University.Dr. Preston B. Lowrance, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 31 August 1966, for personal reasons.Mr. Dwayne C. Nuzum, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective 30 June 1966, to accept a position at the School of Architecture, University of Colorado.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 31 August 1966, for personal reasons.Dr. John H. Parks, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective 31 July 1966, to accept the position of Director of Comprehensive Community Mental Health services of Central Kentucky.Dr. William Parson, Henry B. Mulholland Professor of Medicine, effective 30 September 1966, to accept the chair in medicine at Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda, Africa.Mr. Frederick W. Towers, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective 30 June 1966, to establish a practice of Landscape Architecture in Flat Rock, North Carolina.Mr. Andrew B. Whinston, Associate Professor of Economics, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at Purdue University.Dr. Charles G. Wood, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), effective 31 July 1966, to accept a position at the University of Florida.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointments were announced: Lt. (j.g.) William F. Flatley as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective 1 September 1966, at no salary from the State.Captain James A. Garnett as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective 1 September 1966.Lt. Karl G. West as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective 6 September 1966.

Also, the following appointments were announced: Mr. James H. Bash as Director, Division of Field Services, School of Education, for five years, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Raymond C. Bice as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. William G. Crutchfield as Acting Chairman, Department of Neurological Surgery, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mrs. Virginia H. Edwards as Chairman of the Diploma Program, School of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 August 1966.Mr. William H. Fishback, Jr. as Director of Information Services, effective 19 September 1966.Mr. Lee R. Johnston as Director, Doctoral Program, Graduate School of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1966.Dr. Byrd S. Leavell as Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for the period 1 October 1966 through 30 June 1967.Miss Mary A. MacDougall as Acting Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Chairman, Department of Liberal Arts, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Associate Dean for Special Programs, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Acting Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for the period 1 September 1966 through 30 June 1967.Mr. Herbert R. Pickett as Registrar of the University, for the period 1 September 1966 through 30 June 1969.Mr. Edward R. Slaughter as Chairman, Department of Physical Education, for two years, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Theodore Turner as Acting Chairman, Department of Art, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. David W. Weiss as Chairman, Department of Speech and Drama, for five years, effective 1 July 1966.

DEATH OF DR. ALTO EDMUND FELLER
-------------------------------

ADDITION OF MEDICAL COLLEGE OF VIRGINIA AS A MEMBER OF VIRGINIA ASSOCIATED RESEARCH CENTER
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 604, Acts of Assembly, 1962, as amended by Chapter 705, Acts of Assembly, 1966, the Joint Agreement between The College of William and Mary in Virginia, the University of Virginia, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute bearing date of 1 July 1962, for the operation and management of a space radiation effects laboratory be amended to include the Medical College of Virginia as a party thereto and that the Amendment to the Joint Agreement of 1 July 1962, making the Medical College of Virginia a party thereto, under the terms and conditions therein set out, in the form submitted to this meeting, and bearing date of 1 October 1966, be, and the same hereby is, approved and consented to; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the President or Comptroller of the University of Virginia be, and either of them is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to execute said Amendment to the Joint Agreement of 1 July 1962, bearing date of 1 October 1966, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board be, and either of them is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to affix the corporate seal of this institution thereto and to attest the same; andBE IT STILL FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and designated, as a committee of one of this Board, in conjunction with the governing bodies of The College of William and Mary in Virginia, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and the Medical College of Virginia, or duly authorized committees of such governing bodies, to negotiate and execute an amendment to the existing contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the operation and management of such space radiation effects laboratory, in conformity with the terms and conditions of said Joint Agreement of 1 July 1962, as amended, and that the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of this Board be, and either of them is hereby, authorized, empowered, and designated to affix the corporate seal of this institution to such amendment to said contract and to attest the same.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON ENROLLMENT
--------------------

The President reported on the enrollment in the College and the Schools for the academic session 1966-1967.

REPORT ON STUDY OF UNIVERSITY ORGANIZATION
------------------------------------------

The President reported on the current status of the study of the organization of the University by Heald, Hobson and Associates.

UNIVERSITY SESQUICENTENNIAL, 1969
---------------------------------

The President reminded the Board that the 150th anniversary of the founding of the University of Virginia would occur on 25 January 1969. He reported that he had appointed a committee last spring to look into the matter of the Sesquicentennial celebration. This committee which was composed of faculty members, alumni, and a representative of the Board of Visitors, Mr. Hobbs, made a preliminary report to him in June. The President stated that he plans to appoint a general chairman to oversee the planning and conduct of the Sesquicentennial celebration who would have to assist him a number of sub-committees. He stated also that the Sesquicentennial celebration should be a community affair involving alumni, faculty, students, the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, the Board of Visitors, and officials of the City of Charlottesville and the County of Albemarle.

THE ELIS AND SIGNE OLSSON PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that Mrs. Signe M. Olsson has created a trust fund which will enable the University to establish the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship in Business Administration to be dedicated to the development of high concepts of integrity and ethical conduct in public life. The income from the trust fund is to be received by the University for twenty years, but the donor has asked that an amount be deducted from the income each year in order that, at the end of twenty years, the capital fund will be sufficient to continue the Professorship.

The donor has in mind the enormous importance of integrity in human affairs and seeks through this gift to stimulate general public interest in and understanding of the ethical implications that necessarily adhere to the exercise of authority in both private and public life. The occupant of the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship, therefore, through teaching, research, and publication, will endeavor to enhance public awareness that actions of men in responsible positions in public and private life are influenced in differing degrees by a belief in right and wrong, by the dictates of individual conscience, and by the anticipated moral and social consequences of their actions. The intention of the donor is that the activities generated by the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship shall aim at attaining a position of leadership, in the academic world and elsewhere, in efforts to improve standards of behavior in both public and private business.

In particular, therefore, the Professorship in its activities will emphasize the essentiality of integrity in the reconciliation of those concepts commonly indicated as the dignity of the individual, the imperatives of organizations, and the moralities implicit in free markets.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship in Business Administration be and it is hereby established in the Graduate School of Business Administration;BE IT RESOLVED further that this Professorship shall be dedicated to high concepts of integrity and ethical conduct in public and private life; andBE IT RESOLVED further, whereas it is the wish of the donors of the funds supporting the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship in Business Administration during the twenty-year period from 1966 to 1986 when the income of the trust heretofore established by Mrs. Signe Maria Olsson is being paid to the University of Virginia for the support of the Olsson Professorship, that annually a sufficient portion of the income shall be set aside and retained by the University of Virginia in order that by 1986 a capital fund will have been created in an amount, the income of which will be sufficient to maintain the Olsson Professorship after the trust established by Mrs. Olsson ceases to support that Professorship in 1986.

The following resolution was also adopted: WHEREAS the members of the Board have learned with special pleasure of the generous gift of Mrs. Olsson for the establishment of the Elis and Signe Olsson Professorship in Business Administration; andWHEREAS the generosity of the donor in this instance is especially gratifying as a mark of the continuing relationship between the Olsson family and the University of Virginia;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby record our deep gratitude for this gift and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the donor as a mark of our warm appreciation.

GIFT OF WALTER REED PAPERS
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mrs. Mary Kahler Hench, widow of the late Dr. Philip S. Hench, has given to the University of Virginia the great and unique collection of the papers of Dr. Walter Reed developed over many years by her husband; andWHEREAS this collection on the professional career of the noted graduate of the School of Medicine of the University constitutes a rich archive for research in the history of modern medicine, linking the names and achievements of two great American scientists;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express to Mrs. Hench our thanks for her generosity in making this magnificent gift, and direct the Secretary to transmit a copy of this resolution to the donor as a mark of our deep appreciation.

MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL OF TAYLOE MURPHY INSTITUTE
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1966, for the terms noted:Two-Year TermJohn W. Hancock, Jr., Roanoke, VirginiaChairman of the Board, John W. Hancock, Jr., Inc.;President, Roanoke Electric Steel Corporation;Director, First National Exchange Bank of Virginia;Virginia Polytechnic Institute Board of VisitorsThree-Year TermJoseph W. Chinn, Jr., Warsaw, VirginiaPresident and Director, Wilmington Trust Company;Director, W. T. Grant Company;Director, La Floresta Perdida, Inc.;Director, Florell Corporation;Director, Magdalena Mining & Investment Ltd.;Director, NVF Company.

The following resolution was also adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the Council of the Tayloe Murphy Institute, effective 1 September 1966, for three-year terms:John S. Battle, Sr.Raymond R. GuestCharles L. KaufmanWebster S. RhoadsLewis L. Strauss

NAMING OF NEW DORMITORIES ON McCORMICK ROAD
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the four new dormitories on McCormick Road be and they are hereby named for the following former members of the faculty:Albert G. A. Balz, Corcoran Professor of Philosophy and Chairman of the Department;Armistead Mason Dobie, Professor of Law and Dean of the School of Law;Thomas L. Watson, Professor of Geology; andRobert Henning Webb, Professor of Greek and Chairman of the Department of Ancient Languages.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 123,521.84

Free Service to Counties and Cities

345,926.59

\------------

$ 469,448.43

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1361, 1362, 1365, 1366, 1368, 1369, 1376, 1377, 1380, 1381, 1383, 1384, 1391, 1392, 1395, and 1396, aggregating $469,448.43, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$ 123,521.84Free Service to Counties and Cities345,926.59------------$ 469,448.43

NAMING OF UNIVERSITY ROADS
--------------------------

The President reported that he has received a recommendation from the University Committee on Names for the official naming of certain University roads on the Grounds at Charlottesville.

Accordingly, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University roads, as described in the following listing, shall be named as noted:Peyton Drive - off Copeley Road into Phase Two, Married Student Housing;Farish Circle - the circle leading off Massie Road;Old Reservoir Road - off McCormick Road by the Nuclear Physics Laboratory;Edgemont Road - off McCormick Road and running by the National Radio Astronomy Observatory.

GOVERNOR'S CONFERENCE ON EDUCATION
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby congratulate Governor Godwin on the success of his Conference on Education held on 5 October 1966 and express our personal and corporate appreciation for his inspiring leadership in the cause of education.

FOLLOW-UP REPORT ON THE REPORT OF THE VISITATION COMMITTEE OF THE SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President summarized his follow-up report on the recommendations made by the Visitation Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools one year ago. A copy of his report, the President stated, will be sent to each member of the Board.

RETENTION OF UNIVERSITY RESIDENCE BY MRS. ROBERTA H. GWATHMEY AFTER RETIREMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mrs. Roberta H. Gwathmey will retire as Dean of Women on 30 June 1967 and intends to retire from the faculty on that date;WHEREAS Mrs. Gwathmey now resides at Two Dawson's Row, which is scheduled for demolition in the next two to four years to make way for the construction of the building to house the School of Education;WHEREAS if the resolution of the Board of Visitors dated 10 June 1960, requiring members of the faculty to vacate University residences at the time of their retirement is enforced, the residence will in all likelihood remain vacant until the time of demolition; andWHEREAS Mrs. Gwathmey desires to continue to reside at Two Dawson's Row;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that because of the special circumstances relating to the occupancy of Two Dawson's Row, which are not likely to be repeated in the future, permission is hereby granted to Mrs. Gwathmey to reside at Two Dawson's Row following her retirement from the University faculty on 30 June 1967, either until the residence must be demolished or until 30 June 1970, whichever is the earlier date, and provided further that in no event shall this exception be used as the basis for granting exceptions to the requirements of the resolution of 10 June 1960 to other members of the faculty residing in University houses.

INDEPENDENT AUDIT
-----------------

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. Hobbs, reported on the studies his Committee had made concerning the possibility of an independent audit of the University's accounts in accordance with the instructions given to the Committee by the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 3 June 1966. He stated that consultations with the State Auditor of Public Accounts and the Attorney General had resulted in the State Auditor's changing his auditing schedule of the University of Virginia from every other year to every year. He noted that the staff of auditors was already on the Grounds making an audit of the fiscal year ending on 30 June 1966. In view of the close cooperation provided to the Committee by the State Auditor of Public Accounts, Mr. Hobbs stated that the Committee had decided to defer any request for an independent audit by a private firm in order that the results of the new auditing program might be assessed. The Committee, Mr. Hobbs concluded, will review the situation from time to time.

Mr. Hobbs also stated that he and his Committee were looking into the matter of the sufficiency of the surety bonds carried by University financial officials, and reported that he had consulted some private insurance firms in this regard. A further report on this matter will be made at the next meeting.

The Finance Committee, Mr. Hobbs reported, had also looked into the matter of the University endowment funds and had prepared a preliminary report to be distributed shortly after this meeting to all members of the Board other than those who are members of the Finance Committee. A more complete report will be made to the full Board at the December meeting.

Finally, Mr. Hobbs reported on the study by his Committee of the land purchase program of the University of Virginia since 1956. He reported that almost three million dollars in local funds had been used for such purposes. A copy of the report on land purchases from local funds will be sent to each member of the Board.

RE-APPOINTMENT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON BLANDY FARM
------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors provided in Section 3.3 that a special committee should be limited to one year of existence unless the term was specifically renewed. He had therefore authorized the Secretary on his behalf to inform the Special Committee on Blandy Farm, Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, Chairman, Mr. Hunter Faulconer, and Mr. William A. Hobbs, that the term of the Committee was being renewed for an additional year, effective 29 October 1966.

SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF BENEFACTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that he was re-activating the Special Committee on Recognition of Benefactors of the University of Virginia, which had been originally appointed on 8 February 1964. He noted that the University of Virginia is one of the few major institutions of higher learning in the country that does not award honorary degrees and expressed his belief that other means might be found to recognize and honor individuals who had been major benefactors of the University. He announced that he was appointing the following members to the committee, effective 11 October 1966: Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., Chairman, Mr. Hunter Faulconer, and Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.

SALARY INCREASES FOR THE PRESIDENT AND CHANCELLOR OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS out of the limited funds at the disposal of Governor Godwin he has authorized increases in the salaries of the President of the University and of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College;WHEREAS these increases afford concrete evidence of the abiding interest of Governor Godwin in the cause of education and of his recognition of the need for quality as well as quantity of instruction;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby express to Governor Godwin our appreciation of his finding funds for these increases and our hope that he will recommend further increments to the next session of the General Assembly.

VINCENT ESTATEMONROE & LEMANN Attorneys and Counsellors at Law Whitney Building NEW ORLEANS 70130 April 12, 1965 #3849-D-19-A
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President proposed the election of a successor to the late Judge Wayne Borah as a representative of the University of Virginia in connection with the Vincent Estate, and accordingly the following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Richard W. Gamble of New Orleans, Louisiana, be and he is hereby designated as the representative of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia generally known and designated as the "University of Virginia," as a substitute for the late Wayne G. Borah.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that said Richard W. Gamble be clothed with all authority heretofore granted said Wayne G. Borah and without limiting same more particularly, be and he hereby is authorized and empowered on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in any case in which (a) the executors (during their tenure but not thereafter) and (b) the widow and usufructuary and (c) the other two naked owners concur in that action, to subscribe the name of this Institution to an endorsement upon a lease of any portion of the property included in said estate and in which this Institution has an undivided naked ownership interest as above set out, without limitation on time, which endorsement shall read substantially as follows:

The undersigned Naked Owners of this property take cognizance of the above lease and if, as and when they come into full ownership of the property, they will assume the obligations of landlord under this lease in accordance with its terms and for the period which it designates.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in connection with the execution of any such lease the said representative is hereby authorized to consent to the charge against this Institution of its proportionate part in any expenditures (not in excess of $5,000 for the total of such expenditures in any one case), which under the Louisiana law are chargeable to the naked owners of the property in question.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that said Richard W. Gamble be and he is hereby is authorized to act on behalf of the University of Virginia on all matters dealing with investments, in accordance with the letter of 12 April 1965, signed by all naked owners and by the widow and usufructuary, pursuant to which letter management of the investments in the Succession of Hugh Vincent are now being handled and a copy of which letter is attached and made a part of these minutes.

Mr. Lester E. Junge Trust Officer Whitney National Bank New Orleans, Louisiana

Re: Custodianship Mrs. Mildred Saffold Vincent, Usufructuary, et al - Tulane University, University of Virginia and Trinity Church, Naked Owners

Dear Mr. Junge:

Contemporaneously with the execution of this letter the undersigned have executed an agreement which extends and brings down to date the agreement on June 7, 1956 covering the handling of the securities in the above account.

We now supplement that agreement as follows:

a) Mr. Darwin Fenner and Mr. Lee Murphy, Jr. are constituted hereafter as the securities committee. The Securities Committee will make all recommendations thereto with respect to the portfolio. Upon receipt of these recommendations, you will circulate them among the parties hereto and upon approval of all parties, you will proceed to carry out these recommendations. All executions are to be handled through the firms of Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith and Ladd Dinkins & Company.

b) Whenever municipal bonds mature or are called, the Securities Committee is authorized without further authorization to reinvest proceeds thereof in municipal bonds having a rating of Moody's "A" qualification or better with maturities extending not longer than 20 years from the date of purchase.

c) Whenever you receive either rights, subscriptions, warrants or fractional shares in connection with any securities in your portfolio, you are authorized to deal with said right, subscriptions, warrants or fractional shares on written instructions of the Securities Committee without any written authorization from the undersigned.

In connection with (b) and (c) above, whenever any action is taken you will notify all of the undersigned in writing promptly.

APPROVED

Tulane University of Louisiana

Darwin S. Fenner

Trinity Church

Respectively submitted,

For Succession Hugh E. Vincent Mrs. Mildred Saffold Vincent, Usuf.

Mrs. Mildred Saffold Vincent

University of Virginia

Judge Wayne G. Borah

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mrs. Sarah McE. Harvie as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. William F. Barker, Professor of Chemistry, effective 31 August 1966, to accept a position at Kenyon College in Ohio.

THOMAS JEFFERSON HALLThomas Jefferson Hall
------------------------------------------

Construction

Thorington Construction Company

Base Bid

$ 865,440

Alternate A

$ 82,000

Alternate G

25,500

Alternate H

6,700

114,200

$ 979,640

Alternate E

7,400

$ 972,240

Change Order No. 1

8,100

Total

$ 980,340

Equipment

Thalhimer Brothers

$ 55,649

Alternate No. 1

5,353

Alternate No. 2

1,287

$ 62,289

Change Order No. 1

4,080

$ 66,369

Other Equipment

75,000

$ 141,369

Architects Fees

Construction

5.5%

$ 980,340

$ 53,919

Equipment

7.64%

66,369

5,070

$ 58,989

Contingencies

20,812

\-----------

Total

$ 1,201,510

Available Funds

Proceeds of Bond Issue

$ 815,000

Temporary Loan

300,000

State - site improvements

$ 82,000

5.5% 82,000

4,510

86,510

$1,201,510

The Chancellor commented on the following summary of the cost of constructing Thomas Jefferson Hall:

Thomas Jefferson Hall Construction Thorington Construction Company Base Bid $ 865,440 Alternate A $ 82,000 Alternate G 25,500 Alternate H 6,700 114,200 $ 979,640 Alternate E 7,400 $ 972,240 Change Order No. 1 8,100 Total $ 980,340 Equipment Thalhimer Brothers $ 55,649 Alternate No. 1 5,353 Alternate No. 2 1,287 $ 62,289 Change Order No. 1 4,080 $ 66,369 Other Equipment 75,000 $ 141,369 Architects Fees Construction 5.5% $ 980,340 $ 53,919 Equipment 7.64% 66,369 5,070 $ 58,989 Contingencies 20,812 ----------- Total $ 1,201,510 Available Funds Proceeds of Bond Issue $ 815,000 Temporary Loan 300,000 State - site improvements $ 82,000 5.5% 82,000 4,510 86,510 $1,201,510

CONFIRMATION OF ACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Executive Committee on 12 August 1966, authorizing the Chancellor of Mary Washington College to borrow $150,000 each from the Farmers and Merchants State Bank of Fredericksburg and The National Bank of Fredericksburg for the purpose of obtaining the additional funds necessary to permit the construction of Thomas Jefferson Hall, be and it is hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The Chancellor reported on the current status of the construction program.

EASEMENT TO VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
-----------------------------------------------

The Chancellor reported that Virginia Electric and Power Company has requested an easement for an electric distribution line to run a short distance across the lands of Mary Washington College for the purpose of servicing the pumping station of the Spotsylvania Service Authority, located on lands of the College, an easement therefor having been heretofore granted.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, The Rector and Visitors having authority so to do under the provisions of Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia grant to Virginia Electric and Power Company, the easement described in the Agreement submitted to this meeting, the route of such easement being shown on the plat accompanying such Agreement; andRESOLVED further that the President of the University of Virginia be, and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the Agreement of easement dated 18 July 1966, granting to Virginia Electric and Power Company, the easement therein described, and that the Secretary of this Board be, and he is hereby, authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such Agreement and to attest the same.

RENOVATION OF PAYNE HOUSE AT BELMONT
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chancellor of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby authorized to expend from the income from the Gari Melchers Endowment not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of renovating the Payne House at Belmont.

AUTHORIZATION FOR ACCEPTANCE OF duPONT GIFT
-------------------------------------------

The Chancellor proposed that the resolution relating to the gift of 200 shares of the common stock of the Columbia Broadcasting System, which was adopted by the Board of Visitors at its meeting on 3 June 1966, be amended and reenacted as follows:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Edgar E. Woodward, Bursar of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to execute, in the name and on behalf of said Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, a stock power directing the transfer of 200 shares of the common stock of Columbia Broadcasting System to Hamac and Company.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Harold L. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for two years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jimmy N. Humphreys as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Rhonda E. Johnson, Jr. as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Lois P. Lowry as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Aldis B. Hatch, Professor of Modern Languages, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Wallace R. Brandon as Lecturer in German, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Courtney M. Carter as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Stephen T. Early, Jr. as Professor of Political Science, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard A. Gleissner as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Cornelia T. Hyde as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Lawrence Leftoff as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Max Levitan as Professor of Biology, effective 1 September 1966, at an annual salary of $Mrs. Dorothy I. MacConkey as Lecturer in Sociology, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Jean E. McKeithen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Mildred L. Parks as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Serge Racine as Lecturer in Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Miss Teresa A. Urso as Lecturer in Spanish, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. C. Robert Walter, Jr. as Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Concepcion V. Warner as Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter J. Wasik, Jr. as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Frances E. Withers as Instructor in Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Norman A. Yance as Lecturer in Religion, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Eugenie V. Mielczarek, Acting Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert T. Vance, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Evelyn L. Pugh, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert A. Turner, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Hubert M. Cole, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $ effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Robert F. Fedel, Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Hyman I. Feinstein, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Blossom D. Golinkin, Assistant Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. John G. Hartley, Lecturer in Anthropology, one-fourth time, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. James R. Heath, III, Instructor in Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966Mrs. Janine A. Lavanceau, Instructor in French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Helen L. Sehrt, Assistant Professor of German, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Harry C. Stutts, Lecturer in Applied Mechanics, one-fourth time, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Robert H. Reid, Professor of History, effective 31 August 1966.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Stephen T. Early, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Social Sciences, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Max Levitan as Chairman, Department of Biology, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor, George Mason College, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. C. Robert Walter, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1966.

REPORTS TO THE ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, such authorization being necessary to apply for permits and to prepare reports to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division of the Internal Revenue Service concerning the use of tax-free alcohol for teaching and research purposes, that the Business Manager of George Mason College of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to execute applications, reports, and other papers in behalf of George Mason College in dealings with the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division of the Internal Revenue Service.

LAND ACQUISITION AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
----------------------------------------

The Chancellor of George Mason College, Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, appeared before the Board and reported in detail, including the presentation of slides, on the proposed land acquisition program for George Mason College.

SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES MATTERELECTION
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Andre C. de Porry as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Ruth E. Hutcherson as Lecturer in Library Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Charles R. Revie as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $Miss Joyce A. Scott as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Miss Mary P. Adams, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Sherman S. Dutton, Associate Professor of General Studies, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mr. Boyd J. McGee, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr., Assistant Professor of Biology, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Dorothy Z. Mills, Instructor in English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Ruby D. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. David T. Morgan, Jr., Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

RETIREMENT
----------

The President announced the retirement of Miss Gabrielle M. Roy, Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, effective 30 June 1966. Miss Roy has been a member of the faculty since 1 September 1962.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Miss Ruth E. Hutcherson as Librarian, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. John T. Casteen as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard C. Hatfield as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.Mr. William R. Pogue as Lecturer in Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Jimmy L. Willis as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Gordon F. Theisz, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. George B. Brothers, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. James P. Hanlon, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mrs. Douglas N. Nock, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Joseph Perfetti, Assistant Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Leon F. Punsalan, Assistant Professor of Engineering Physics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.Mr. Littleton W. Simpson, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 July 1966.Mrs. Jeanne L. R. Yeffstif, Instructor in French, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Glenn K. Powell, Assistant Professor of Engineering Technology, effective 31 August 1966, to return to his former position with the Federal Government.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Littleton W. Simpson as Director, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.

LYNCHBURG BRANCH MATTERSELECTION
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. James P. Valentine as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. William I. Williams as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Roy N. Graves, II, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1966.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Dean E. Brundage as Lecturer in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mrs. Gratia B. Groves as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 August 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RICHMOND CENTER MATTERSPROMOTION
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Franklin R. Sibert, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1966, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for administrative work, or a total salary of $.

ROANOKE CENTER MATTERSROANOKE OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: In order to assist the new Community College of Roanoke, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, the University designate which of those books and items of laboratory and classroom equipment, owned by the Rector and Visitors but now housed in buildings rented by the Roanoke Office of the School of General Studies or on loan to the Community College, are not necessary for the conduct of authorized junior, senior, graduate and continuing education extension programs of the Roanoke Office; andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that title to the books and items of equipment designated as not necessary for the University's authorized extension programs be transferred to the Community College of Roanoke at the earliest practicable date.

SOUTHWEST VIRGINIA CENTER MATTERSELECTION
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. J. Sydney Cook, Jr. as Lecturer in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1966, at a session salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Joseph R. Earnest as Director, Southwest Virginia Center, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1966.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

WC:dbc