Board of Visitors minutes (1968) December 14, 1968
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 14, 1968

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 14 December 1968
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 14 December 1968 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Avbsent: Visitor McConnell. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of 4 October 1968, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

RESIGNATION OF VISITOR WILLIAMS
-------------------------------

The Rector announced, with regret, the resignation of Mr. Langbourne M. Williams as a member of the Board of Visitors, effective 7 October 1968.

FILLING OF VACANCY ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
---------------------------------------------

In accordance with the requirements of Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966, the Board unanimously elected Visitor Kendig to fill the vacancy on the Executive Committee resulting from the resignation of Mr. Langbourne M. Williams from the Board on 7 October 1968.

STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that he had made certain changes in the composition of the membership of the standing committees. The membership of the standing committees, as rearranged, is as follows: Executive CommitteeFrank W Rogers, ChairmanEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallLewis M. Walker, Jr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Finance CommitteeWilliam S. Potter, ChairmanJoseph H. McConnellJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeLewis M. Walker, Jr., ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeWalkley E. Johnson, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonW. Wright HarrisonJoseph H. McConnellC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongW. Wright HarrisonMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Educational Policy CommitteeC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. Potter

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Francoise M. L. Attinger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period 15 November 1968 through 31 May 1969, at an annual salary of Mr. William B. Brent as Visiting Associate Professor of Geology, for one year, effective 1 February 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. John E. Burchard as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for four months, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mr. John H. Highfill, III, as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, one-fourth time, for the period 21 October 1968 through 31 January 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, one-eighth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Miss Judith A. Lawler as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Alan B. Lettofsky as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph C. Long as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of .Mrs. Julia F. McLaughlin as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective 30 October 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Gordon A. Melson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of Mr. Walter G. Neevel, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Rodger W. Plaster as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Alan H. Strahler as Acting Assistant Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Peter C. Toms as Lecturer for the period 16 December 1968 through 30 June 1969, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. James M. Waller as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF MR. BERNARD REICH
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. Bernard Reich, as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, as approved by the Board on 4 October 1968, be changed from 1 September 1968 to 1 February 1969.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Charles C. Alexander as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Harry T. Antrim as Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. A. James Arnold, Jr. as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Josephine D. Arnold as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Roger J. Bain as Assistant Professor of Geology, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Bruno Braunrot as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Roger P. Bristol as Assistant Professor and Engineering Librarian, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. David G. Bromley as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Francis A. Carey as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Glenn F. Chesnut, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Louis L. Chinatti as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John C. Coleman as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Christopher Collins as Assistant Professor of Russian, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Frederick A. Cooper as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John E. Craig as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. F. Jason Crigler as Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. William P. Culbertson, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Zita D. Dabars as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ronald G. Dimberg as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Hoyt N. Duggan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Charles E. Echols as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Thomas S. Edwards as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Richard E. Ellis as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. George L. Falkenhagen as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William O. Freithaler as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Donald T. Fry, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Richard C. Greulich as Visiting Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Chaitan P. Gupta as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James G. Hagan as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Spencer Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James A. Hardell as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John K. Haviland as Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Visiting Professor of Architecture and of City Planning, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Alan D. Howard as Acting Assistant Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James S. Howland as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Mu Shik Jhon as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ivan C. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jerry L. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John L. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Joseph F. Kett as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Manuel Lassaletta as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David B. Lawall as Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Frederick R. Lehmeyer as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Donald G. Loach as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gustav D. Magnuson as Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. R. Gregory Magruder as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. W. Copley McLean as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Dale R. Metcalf as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ronald L. Moomaw as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Cary N. Moon as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John H. Moore as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John W. Morgan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Aaron Morrell as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David Morris as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. John R. Morris, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Samuel I. Outcalt as Acting Assistant Professor of Geography, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Hugh S. Plunkett as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Miss Carolyn Pratt as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ganas K. Rakes as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Douglas Rakestraw as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. J. Taylor Roberts as Assistant Professor of Hindi and Linguistics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Miss Marion E. Roberts as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. W. Gerald Robison, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Walter B. Ross as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William H. Runge as Assistant Professor and Curator of Rare Books, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Roger P. Sherman as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs as Assistant Professor and Reference Librarian, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John L. Sullivan as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. James B. Twyman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. W. McKenzie Wallenborn as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Harold N. Ward as Assistant Professor of Mathematics for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edward J. White as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William S. Willis as Associate Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Viola H. Winner as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Frank J. F. Wordick as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Gail S. Marshall, Instructor in Law, to Acting Assistant Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Evon P. Ruzecki from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Stuart H. Bartle, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Surgery, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to continue residency training in psychiatry, at Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York.Mr. Richard D. McKinsey, Associate Professor of Biology, for the period 1 November 1968 through 31 January 1969, because of illness.Mr. Robert S. Young, Associate Professor of Geology, for one year, effective 1 February 1969, without pay, to serve as consultant to Knox Mining Corporation and Humble Oil and Refining Company.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Charles C. Alexander, from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period 1 October 1968 through 30 June 1971.Dr. Carlos R. Ayers, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Virginia Heart Association Research Professor of Cardiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Dante Germino, from Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 October 1968.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Microbiology, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Leigh E. Grosenick, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period 28 October 1968 through 30 June 1971.Mr. David W. Lewis, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and of Biomedical Engineering, effective 1 November 1968.Dr. William B. Looney from Professor of Radiology (Radiobiology and Biophysics), to Professor of Pediatrics (Radiobiology) and Radiology, for the period 15 November 1968 through 30 June 1969.Mr. George A. McAlpine, from Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 December 1968.Mr. Michael L. Mezey, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period 1 November 1968 through 30 June 1971.Mr. David B. Morris, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period 1 December 1968 through 30 June 1971.Mr. Jeffrey B. Morton, from Research Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen, from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period 1 February 1969 through 30 June 1971.Mr. Robert S. Wood, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period 1 October 1968 through 30 June 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Dr. Jerry W. Bains, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective 20 September 1968.Miss Nancy E. Ballard, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. J. Taylor Beard, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Miss Nellie B. Carwile, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 November 1968.Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield, Professor of Neurosurgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. John L. Gainer, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. J. Shelton Horsley, III, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 October 1968.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Juan D. Martinez, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fred C. McCormick, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Stanton P. Nolan, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 1 October 1968.Mr. Victor Reynolds, Professor and Director, University Press of Virginia, at an annual salary of , effective 1 January 1969.Dr. Leslie E. Rudolf, Associate Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of effective 20 September 1968.Mr. Robert A. Smoak, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Lever F. Stewart, Associate Professor of Neurology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Miss Catherine Sturtevant, Lecturer in English, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 October 1968.Mrs. Ann G. Taylor, Assistant Professor of Nursing, at an annual salary of , effective 1 January 1969.Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen, Assistant Professor of Surgery, at an annual salary of , effective 20 September 1968.Mr. Edward J. White, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Johan Zwaan, Associate Professor of Anatomy, at an annual salary of effective 1 October 1968.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The President announced the following resignations: Mr. Desmond R. H. Gourley as Chairman, Department of Pharmacology, effective 1 September 1968, because of reassignment of duties.Mr. Ian M. Grigg-Spall, Instructor in Law, effective 1 September 1968, as he was unable to attend the University this session.Miss Carole A. Pieroni, Assistant Professor of French, effective 30 June 1969, to be married.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The President announced the following appointments: Mr. John K. Haviland as Director, Division of Space Science, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., as Assistant Dean for Continuing Education, School of Medicine, for one year, effective 1 January 1969.Mr. Peter C. Toms as Special Assistant to the President, effective 16 December 1968.

CHANGE OF TITLE OF APPOINTMENT
------------------------------

The President announced the following change of title of appointment: Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, from Chairman, to Acting Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1969
-----------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 13, 14, and 15 February 1969

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 3, 4, and 5 April 1969

Fredericksburg

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 4, 5, and 6 June 1969

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 1, 2, and 3 October 1969

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 4, 5, and 6 December 1969

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1969 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved:Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 13, 14, and 15 February 1969CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 3, 4, and 5 April 1969FredericksburgWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 4, 5, and 6 June 1969CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 1, 2, and 3 October 1969CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 4, 5, and 6 December 1969Charlottesville

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period 1 July 1967 to 30 June 1968" be and it is here-by approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON THE PATENT POLICY
---------------------------

The President presented a report on the patent policy.

TUITION AND FEE INCREASE AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEPresent ChargesProposed Charges
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuition Fees:

Twelve semester hours and above

$160.00

Part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour

11.00

Other fees:

Student Activity Fee (per semester)\*

5.00

Library Fee (per semester)\* \*Students enrolling for less than four semester hours are not required to pay the Student Activity Fee but are required to pay $2.50 Library Fee.

5.00

Tuition Fees:

In-State twelve semester hours and above

$160.00

Out-of-State twelve semester hours and above

185.00

In-State, part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour

14.00

Out-of-State, part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour

16.00

Other Fees:

Comprehensive Fees (per semester)\* \*Students enrolling for less than four semester hours shall pay five dollars.

15.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and fee increase at Clinch Valley College as set forth below be and it is hereby approved effective 1 September 1969:Present ChargesTuition Fees:Twelve semester hours and above$160.00Part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour11.00Other fees:Student Activity Fee (per semester)\*5.00Library Fee (per semester)\* \*Students enrolling for less than four semester hours are not required to pay the Student Activity Fee but are required to pay $2.50 Library Fee. 5.00Proposed ChargesTuition Fees:In-State twelve semester hours and above$160.00Out-of-State twelve semester hours and above185.00In-State, part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour14.00Out-of-State, part-time students (up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour16.00Other Fees:Comprehensive Fees (per semester)\* \*Students enrolling for less than four semester hours shall pay five dollars. 15.00

Students enrolling for less than four semester hours are not required to pay the Student Activity Fee but are required to pay $2.50 Library Fee.

Students enrolling for less than four semester hours shall pay five dollars.

REPORT ON THE BUDGET
--------------------

The President presented a report on the University Budget Requests.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 48,934.32

Free service to Counties and Cities

241,421.97

\-----------

Total

$290,356.29

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1632, 1633, 1636, 1637, 1644, 1645, 1648, and 1649, aggregating $290,356,29, as recommended by it consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$ 48,934.32Free service to Counties and Cities241,421.97-----------Total$290,356.29

M.A. DEGREE IN SLAVIC LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE
----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University is hereby authorized to award the degree of M.A. in Slavic Languages and Literature.

TUITION INCREASE IN THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
------------------------------------------------------------------

Present Charges

Proposed Charges

In-State students

$ 560

$ 680

Out-of-State students

1,115

1,400

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1969, the session tuition charges in the Graduate School of Business Administration shall be as follows:Present ChargesProposed ChargesIn-State students$ 560$ 680Out-of-State students1,1151,400

SPECIAL STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the special student activity fees be and they are hereby authorized as follows: (1) $1.00 per session in the School of Law, effective 1 February 1969, and (2) $5.00 per session in the School of Architecture, effective 1 September 1969.

SUMMER SESSION TUITION AND FEES
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective for the 1969 Summer Session the Tuition charges for Education courses be increased (1) for in-State students from $14.00 to $16.00 per semester hours, and (2) for out-of-State students from $29.00 to $33.00 per semester hour;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Medical Fee and the Activity Fee be increased from $5.00 to $6.00 each; andRESOLVED FURTHER that for those students attending for four weeks or less the Medical Fee shall be $4.00 and the Activity Fee shall be $2.00.

MARRIED STUDENT HOUSING RENTALS
-------------------------------

Facility

Present Rental Rate Per Month

Proposed Rental Rate Per Month

Copeley Hill Apartments (all utilities)

1 Bedroom

$ 90

$105

2 Bedroom

105

120

3 Bedroom

120

135

University Gardens (all utilities)

1 Bedroom

90

100

2 Bedroom

105

115

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1969, the married student housing rental charges be and they are hereby increased as follows:FacilityPresent Rental Rate Per MonthProposed Rental Rate Per MonthCopeley Hill Apartments (all utilities)1 Bedroom$ 90$1052 Bedroom1051203 Bedroom120135University Gardens (all utilities)1 Bedroom901002 Bedroom105115

DORMITORY RENTALS
-----------------

Facility

Present Rate Per Session

Proposed Rate Per Session

Alderman Road

Double Room, per student

$325

$355

Monroe Hill

Double Room, per student

350

380

Observatory Houses

Double Room, per student

325

355

McCormick Road (Renovated Rooms)

Double Room, per student (Unrenovated Rooms)

300

330

Double Room, per student

280

310

Single Room

325

355

Lawns and Ranges

Small Single Room

300

330

Large Single Room

325

355

Cracker Box

Double Room, per student

280

310

Women's Dormitory

Mary Munford Hall

Double Room, per student

300

330

Single Room

350

380

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1969, the dormitory rental charges be and they are hereby increased as follows:FacilityPresent Rate Per SessionProposed Rate Per SessionAlderman RoadDouble Room, per student$325$355Monroe HillDouble Room, per student350380Observatory HousesDouble Room, per student325355McCormick Road (Renovated Rooms)Double Room, per student (Unrenovated Rooms)300330Double Room, per student280310Single Room325355Lawns and RangesSmall Single Room300330Large Single Room325355Cracker BoxDouble Room, per student280310Women's DormitoryMary Munford HallDouble Room, per student300330Single Room350380

SUNDRY HOUSING
--------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1969, the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to increase the rental charges in approximately the same proportion as the increases made for dormitories and married students and faculty and staff housing, for certain properties owned by the University consisting of certain scattered units in the vicinity of the University.

FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING
-------------------------

Facility

Present Rental Rate Per Month

Proposed Rental Rate Per Month

Piedmont Apartments

1 Bedroom (furnished)

$100

$115

1 Bedroom (unfurnished)

90

105

2 Bedroom (unfurnished)

105

120

Farm House Converted

1 Bedroom (unfurnished)

75

85

1 Bedroom (unfurnished)

80

90

2 Bedroom (unfurnished)

92

100

2 Bedroom (unfurnished)

100

110

Piedmont Houses

3 Bedroom - water furnished (unfurnished)

105

120

2404 Stadium Road

4 Bedroom (unfurnished)

75

75

Rugby Faculty Apartments (all utilities)

1 Bedroom

49

60

1 Bedroom

51

60

1 Bedroom

53

65

1 Bedroom

54

65

1 Bedroom

58

70

1 Bedroom

63

75

2 Bedroom

70

80

2 Bedroom

75

85

2 Bedroom

91

100

2 Bedroom

95

105

2 Bedroom

102

110

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1969, the faculty and staff housing rental charges be and they are hereby increased as follows:FacilityPresent Rental Rate Per MonthProposed Rental Rate Per MonthPiedmont Apartments1 Bedroom (furnished)$100$1151 Bedroom (unfurnished)901052 Bedroom (unfurnished)105120Farm House Converted1 Bedroom (unfurnished)75851 Bedroom (unfurnished)80902 Bedroom (unfurnished)921002 Bedroom (unfurnished)100110Piedmont Houses3 Bedroom - water furnished (unfurnished)1051202404 Stadium Road4 Bedroom (unfurnished)7575Rugby Faculty Apartments (all utilities)1 Bedroom49601 Bedroom51601 Bedroom53651 Bedroom54651 Bedroom58701 Bedroom63752 Bedroom70802 Bedroom75852 Bedroom911002 Bedroom951052 Bedroom102110

CHANGES IN PARIETAL RULES
-------------------------

The President reported on certain proposals he had received from Student Council for changes in the present procedure for administering the parietal rules. These changes had been discussed by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee on the preceding day.

After discussion, the President was instructed to obtain additional information concerning the proposals and to report back to the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee at the February meeting.

ALLOCATION OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Activities Committee shall continue to be charged with the authority and responsibility, under the President, for supervision of the Student Activities Fund which is made up of student activities fees. With respect to allocations from the Fund, unless otherwise directed by the President the procedures shall be as follows: (1) the Committee shall review budgets submitted by The Cavalier Daily and approve allocations thereto; (2) the budgets of all other organizations will be reviewed by Student Council which will allocate funds from student activities fees to the organizations; provided, however, the Council does not approve budgets for purposes in opposition to stated University policies (e.g., religious or discriminatory organizations), or for politically oriented organizations, or for entertainment. The ceiling on the aggregate amount allocated to all such organizations will be the then current total student activities fees less the amount approved by the Student Activities Committee for The Cavalier Daily. Each organization whose budget is reviewed by the Student Council will have a right of appeal to the Student Activities Committee. If no appeal is taken, a Student Council officer will draw a check on the Student Activities Fund for the amount specified by Council payable to the organization receiving the allocation. The Student Activities Committee shall examine on its own motion any budgets that may be approved by the Student Council for organizations deemed by the Committee to be within the exceptions noted above.RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board hereby reserves to the President the unrestricted right to change either prospectively or retroactively the procedures for making allocations from the Student Activities Fund as he may from time to time deem appropriate.

REFUND TO WITHDRAWING STUDENTS
------------------------------

The following University regulation is currently in effect:

A student withdrawing within five days after registration shall have his tuition and one-half of the comprehensive fee, less $10 to cover cost of registration, refunded. If he withdraws voluntarily after the fifth day of the semester and before the middle thereof, his tuition and one-half of the comprehensive fee shall be refunded pro rata. No refund of room rent shall be made.

If the student is required to withdraw from the University at any time during the semester, or if he withdraws voluntarily after the middle thereof, no refund of tuition or the comprehensive fee for that semester shall be made.

A review of situations involving required withdrawal from the University has led to a recommendation by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee that no distinction should be made with respect to return of fees between a student leaving the University, whether voluntarily or otherwise. After consideration, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the section in the Board's resolution of 5 June 1964 included under the paragraph heading entitled: "Return of Fees" be and it is hereby revised and re-enacted as follows: Return of Fees - "A student withdrawing within five days after registration shall have his tuition and one-half of the comprehensive fee, less $10 to cover cost of registration, refunded. If he withdraws after the fifth day of the semester and before the middle thereof, his tuition and one-half of the comprehensive fee shall be refunded pro rata. No refund of room rent shall be made.

If the student withdraws from the University after the middle of the semester, no refund of tuition or the comprehensive fee for that semester shall be made."

THE MARINERS' MUSEUM
--------------------

The University of Virginia has a contingent remainder in property of the Mariners' Museum, Newport News, Virginia. While this is a remote interest, the Museum has from time to time felt it incumbent to consult the University and obtain approval of actions affecting this property.

Presently, the Mariners' Museum desires to enter into a lease with the City of Newport News covering a portion of the real estate owned by the Museum and desires the University of Virginia to unite therein as evidence of approval of the terms and conditions thereof.

The proposed lease was then submitted to the meeting. In order to give its approval to the lease and approval to other comparable actions as they may arise, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President and Secretary be and they hereby are authorized, directed, and empowered to unite in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in a lease dated November 25, 1968 from The Mariners' Museum to the City of Newport News of two parcels of property on the East side of J. Clyde Morris Boulevard, in the City of Newport News, Virginia, the parcels being more fully described in such lease, for the sole purpose of evidencing its approval of the terms and conditions of such lease, and to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia thereto, and further to acknowledge and deliver the same to the Mariners' Museum.RESOLVED FURTHER that the President and Secretary be and they hereby are authorized, directed, and empowered in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to execute any other instrument which may affect the University's interest in property at any time titled in the Mariner's Museum a Virginia corporation, for the sole purpose of evidencing the University's approval of the terms and conditions of such instrument and to affix the corporate seal of The Rector and Visitors thereto, and further to acknowledge and deliver the same to the Mariners' Museum.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following architectural firms be employed for the projects listed: (1) George Mason College Physical Education Building - Lyles, Bissett, Carlisle and Wolff of Alexandria, Virginia, and (2) Renovation of Memorial Gymnasium - Rawlings and Wilson of Richmond, Virginia.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN
---------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors received the "Report of the Special University Committee on the Admission of Women to the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Virginia at Charlottesville," under the chairmanship of Mr. T. Braxton Woody and dated November 1968, and requested the President to proceed with studies of the feasibility of the recommendation with the understanding that the Board will act upon the principle of the Committee report at the February meeting.

COMMUNICATION FROM THE STUDENT COUNCIL
--------------------------------------

The President read a communication from Mr. Martin F. Evans, President of the Student Council, dated 12 December 1968, transmitting the Student Council's request that its President be allowed to attend the December meeting of the Board of Visitors. After lengthy deliberations, the Board agreed that the request could not be granted. However, the Board expressed its interest in Mr. Evans' letter to Mr. Shannon of 1 November 1968 regarding establishment of machinery for communication between the Board of Visitors and the student body as long as such communication was channeled through the President. The President noted that he has recently appointed a joint student-faculty committee in response to a specific request by the Student Council to study a proposal for a meeting between students and the Board.

The Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee noted that his committee had received valuable reports from Student Council members, Mr. Martin F. Evans and Mr. Ron Hickman, who had appeared at the President's request. After discussion, the Board announced that, on the request of the President, the Board's Student Affairs and Athletics Committee will be pleased to hold a special meeting with elected representatives of the Student Government invited to attend by the President to discuss further any requests made by the Student Council through the President.

OTHER COMMUNICATIONS FROM STUDENT COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------

The President read two communications from Mr. Martin F. Evans, President of Student Council, each dated 11 December 1968, requesting (1) that 500 women be admitted to the College of Arts and Sciences in 1970, and (2) that women high school seniors from the Charlottesville-Albemarle area be admitted to the College of Arts and Sciences beginning in September 1969. In view of the Board's action with respect to the report of the Special University Committee on the Admission of Women to the College of Arts and Sciences, no action was taken on these two requests.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE LEGAL ADVISER
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Chancellor reported on the need for a legal adviser for Mary Washington College in Fredericksburg, a matter which had been discussed on several occasions in the past. The Chancellor noted further that he proposed the name of Mr. J. M. H. Willis, Jr., a member of the firm of Willis, Garnett, and Braxton of Fredericksburg. Mr. Willis received a B.A. degree from Hampden-Sydney College in 1954 and an LL.B. degree from the University of Virginia in 1957. He has practiced law in Fredericksburg since 1957. His father and his grandfather also received their law degrees at the University. His mother, Mrs. Phoebe Willis, served as a member of the Board of Visitors for the period 1944-1953.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Legal Adviser of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby authorized to arrange with J. M. H. Willis, Jr., of the law firm of Willis, Garnett, and Braxton of Fredericksburg, to act as the local legal adviser for Mary Washington College on a retainer basis in such amount and upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the University Legal Adviser.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Leo S. Willis as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Leonora A. Benzinger as Lecturer in Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of .

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICEELECTION
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective 1 October 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Acting Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 October 1968

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. W. Preston Haupt as Lecturer in Engineering Technology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:45 p.m.