Board of Visitors minutes (1968) June 7, 1968
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 7, 1968

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 7 June 1968
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 7 June 1968 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Birdsong, Brown, Cross, W. Wright Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, McConnell, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, Wilkinson, and Williams. Absent: J. Hartwell Harrison was absent. Grellet C. Simpson, Edgar E. Woodward, and Michael Houston were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters, and Vincent Shea was present during the consideration of the University and Hospital budgets.

The minutes of the meeting of 19 April, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1969. On motion of Mrs. Parrish, seconded by Mr. Cross, the following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Frank W. Rogers, Chairman; William M. Birdsong, J. Sloan Kuykendall, Lewis M. Walker, Jr., and Langbourne M. Williams.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1968-69Finance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1968-69. The committee assignments are as follows: Finance CommitteeWilliam M. Birdsong, ChairmanWilliam S. PotterJ. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeLewis M. Walker, Jr., ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJoseph H. McConnellMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr. Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeWalkley E. Johnson, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownRichard S. CrossJ. Hartwell HarrisonW. Wright HarrisonJoseph H. McConnellC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Medical CommitteeEdwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanJ. Hartwell HarrisonLewis M. Walker, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeJ. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanWilliam M. BirdsongW. Wright HarrisonMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr.Langbourne M. Williams Educational Policy CommitteeLangbourne M. Williams, ChairmanWalkley E. JohnsonEdwin L. Kendig, Jr.J. Sloan KuykendallWilliam S. PotterC. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.

The Rector, Mr. Frank W. Rogers, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Alfred A. Arth as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Aleksander Bajt as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Phillip J. Best as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. William R. Burns, Jr., as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, one-third time, for two months, effective 16 April 1968, at a salary of Mr. George H. Callcott as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mrs. Susan M. Chartres as Junior Instructor in French, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. David H. Cohen as Associate Professor of Physiology, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. Frederick A. Cooper as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Frederick R. Cyphert as Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mrs. Zita D. Dabars as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas H. Dawson as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Dr. Paul M. Dee as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Stephen M. Ege as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Subrata Gangopadhyay as Instructor in Economics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Daniel L. Gothie as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 March 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. Walter Greiner as Lecturer in Physics, for four months, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Ian M. Grigg-Spall as Instructor in Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marlene J. Hager as Instructor in Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Eric J. Hahn as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three years, effective 1 January 1969, at a session salary of Dr. C. Donald Hammond as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Wesley L. Harris as Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Peter Hauri as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. G. Siegfried Kutter as Acting Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Wilmer J. LeBlanc as Junior Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Charles H. Lodowski as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 15 May 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Gerhard Mally as Visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Minor M. Markle, III, as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph P. Monaghan, Jr., as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John W. Morgan as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Edith K. Mosher as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Richard A. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Physiology for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. David E. Normansell as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Lavon B. Page as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Rosser H. Payne, Jr., as Visiting Professor of City Planning, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Eric E. Sheldon as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Jerry G. Short as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Warren G. Stamp as Alumni Professor of Orthopedics, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Miss Elizabeth C. Thomas as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. William N. Toomy as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, for the period 1 November 1967 through 30 June 1968.Mrs. Nancy B. Towler as Junior Instructor in French, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. David Trutt as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. William S. Willis as Associate Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 August 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Herbert H. Winkler as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Chwang-chia Yang as Instructor in Chinese, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Merete M. Zimmermann as Visiting Professor of City Planning, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

ELECTION OF MR. FREDSON T. BOWERS AS LINDEN KENT MEMORIAL PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH LITERATURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Fredson T. Bowers be and he is hereby elected Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF DR. KENNETH R. CRISPELL AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF INTERNAL MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of

ELECTION OF MR. LEIGH B. MIDDLEDITCH, JR. AS LEGAL ADVISER
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Legal Adviser of the University, effective 1 July 1968.

JOSEPH M. HARTFIELD PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Law to be known as the Joseph M. Hartfield Professorship in Law.

ELECTION OF MR. EDWIN S. COHEN AS JOSEPH M. HARTFIELD PROFESSOR OF LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Edwin S. Cohen be and he is hereby elected Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MISS MONA L. MOUGHTON
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Miss Mona L. Moughton as Associate Professor of Nursing, as approved by the Board on 13 October 1967, be changed from 1 July 1968 to 1 September 1968.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 19 APRIL 1968
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mrs. Mary Ann Radzinowicz, as approved by the Board on 19 April 1968, be changed to read as follows:Mrs. Mary Ann Radzinowicz as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. A. Page Booker as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, one-tenth time, for the period 1 May 1968 through 30 June 1970.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, one-sixth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.Mr. Bernard Dunau as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Miss Jayne L. Gosnell as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Richard C. Greulich as Visiting Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Max Isenbergh as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Francis H. McGovern as Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Jeff A. Pyatte as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective 20 November 1968.Dr. Torbjorn Westgaard as Acting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 August 1968 through 10 September 1968.Mr. Robert S. Wood as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard M. Brandt, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. James T. Cargile, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Bruce A. Chartres, Associate Professor, to Professor of Computer Science, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Douglas T. Day, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Harry J. Dell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. William P. Edmondson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Ernest H. Ern, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geology, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Guy Estes, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Forestry, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Frank E. Flora, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. John L. Gainer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Charles H. Giffen, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph P. Gilmore, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physiology, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Dr. Charles H. Gleason, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of Microbiology, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Luther Y. Gore, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph Hanaway, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. John S. Horner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Dr. John S. Horsley, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. David C. Jordan, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Julian I. Kitay, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology and of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Shiv S. Kumar, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Kenneth R. Lawless, Associate Professor, to Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John L. Longley, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. William B. Looney, Associate Professor, to Professor of Radiology (Radiobiology), effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of .Dr. Lockhart B. McGuire, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of .Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. James E. Mann, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. David D. Meisel, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Ralph C. Minehart, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Douglas G. Mook, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. John A. Sanderson, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Shelby F. Shires, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. James G. Simmonds, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Dr. Gardner W. Smith, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery effective 1 July 1968, at an annual salary of Mr. Richard J. Sundberg, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Mason Willrich, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Anthony Winner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. H. John Wood, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Ricardo N. Zapata, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Frederick A. Cooper, Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to accept a Pennfield Scholarship and Kress Fellowship for research in Greece.Mr. Arthur G. Foster, Assistant Professor of City Planning, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, to serve as guest lecturer at the Technical University, West Berlin, Germany.Mr. Chaitan P. Gupta, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to teach at the University of Chicago.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Michigan.Mr. Harold M. Hochman, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to carry out research at the University of Turin.Mr. David B. Lawall, Assistant Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, without pay, to accept a Younger Scholar Fellowship, National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. Shao Chuan Leng, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to accept a grant from the Harvard International Legal Studies Program, and a grant from the Social Science Research Council, Harvard Law School, to write a book on International Law in China.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 1 September 1968, without pay, to accept a Fulbright Fellowship to Iran.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Robert T. Canevari, from Assistant Dean of the University, to Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, for one year, effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Robert J. Harris, from James Hart Professor of Government to James Hart Professor of Government and Professor of History, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gary A. Orfield, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard R. Abidin, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Douglas W. Alden, Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. A. James Arnold, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Associate Professor of Art, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert E. Barker, Jr., Associate Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Furman W. Barton, Associate Professor of Applied Mechanics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James H. Bash, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alan P. Batson, Professor of Computer Science, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Jesse W. Beams, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. J. Taylor Beard, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard L. Beard, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles J. Bishko, Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Dietrich Bodenstein, Lewis and Clark Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John W. Boring, Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. T. Munford Boyd, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. E. Roger Boyle, Associate Professor of Drama, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ralph C. Bralley, Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William L. Breit, Associate Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Miss Jeannette A. Brown, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alfred Burger, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Helen G. Burr, Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bernard W. Busse, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Nicolas Cabrera, Commonwealth Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert T. Canevari, Lecturer in Physical Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 August 1968.Mr. Francis A. Carey, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James T. Cargile, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Joseph M. Carriere, Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Avery Catlin, Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Vittorio Celli, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ralph W. Cherry, Curry Memorial Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus for summer work and administrative duties, and a supplement of or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Roger H. Clark, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James W. Cole, Jr., Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Almand R. Coleman, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert V. Coleman, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Marvin L. Colker, Professor of Classics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John L. Colley, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Christopher Collins, Assistant Professor of Russian, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James S. Constantine, Associate Professor of Classics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Weldon Cooper, Professor of Government, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Raymond J. Cormier, Assistant Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin, Professor of Sociology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James A. D. Cox, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lawrence Cranberg, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Everett U. Crosby, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas I. Crowell, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Leonard T. Curtis, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul T David, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles M. Davison, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Douglas T. Day, III, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bascom S. Deaver, Jr., Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Arnold A. Del Greco, Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert T. Denomme, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Andre C. de Porry, Lecturer in General Studies, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert Dolan, Associate Professor of Geography, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Vladimir Reisky de Dubnic, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lionel Duisit, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Associate Professor of City Planning, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap, Lecturer in Business Administration, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 August 1968.Mr. William L. Duren, Jr., University Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. William P. Edmondson, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis, Commonwealth Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ralph Eisenberg, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Associate Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Jean C. Ervin, Associate Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert R. Fair, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Frances Farmer, Associate Professor and Law Librarian, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frank W. Finger, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Samuel S. Fisher, Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frank E. Flora, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Robert C. Taylor Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bryant C. Freeman, Associate Professor of French, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Donald T. Fry, Jr., Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles N. Gaylord, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Eelco D. Gerlings, Visiting Assistant Professor of Physiology, at an annual salary of , effective 1 May 1968.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Billy J. Gilpin, Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Norman A. Graebner, Edward R. Stettinius Professor of History, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John Graham, Associate Professor of Speech, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Jr., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James G. Hagan, Assistant Professor of Art, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John F. Hahn, Associate Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology, one-half time, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul M. Hammaker, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lewis M. Hammond, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William H. Harbaugh, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David B. Harned, Professor of Religious Studies, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert J. Harris, James Hart Professor of Government and Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Willard W. Harrison, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frederick Hartt, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of the History of Art, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John K. Haviland, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Peter L. Heath, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Raymond C. Heidloff, Associate Professor of Physical Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard H. Henneman, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Laurin L. Henry, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Robert C. Taylor Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer, and for administrative duties, and a supplement, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Associate Professor of Humanities, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Harold M. Hochman, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George W. Holmes, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alexander B. Horniman, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. A. E. Dick Howard, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert M. Hubbard, Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of plus for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, Alumni Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Ladley Husted, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. C. Alan Hutchinson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fulvio A. Iachetta, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Richard L. Jennings, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Mu Shik Jhon, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, one-fifth time, for one year, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Morris W. Jones, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alexandre Kafka, Professor of Economics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of plus for summer and administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles Kaut, Associate Professor of Anthropology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James J. Kauzlarich, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert L. Kellogg, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James L. Kelly, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Joseph F. Kett, Assistant Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Henry L. Kinnier, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hugh S. Landes, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer duties or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. H. Gordon Larew, Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gordon E. Latta, William Stansfield Calcott Professor of Applied Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John F. Leahy, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lauren G. Leighton, Assistant Professor of Russian, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Jacob C. Levenson, Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lembit U. Lilleleht, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Donald G. Loach, Acting Assistant Professor of Music, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Mary M. Lohr, Sadie Heath Cabiness Professor of Nursing, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and a supplement of or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Peter W. Low, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ralph A. Lowry, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William C. Lowry, Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lawrence L. Ludwig, Professor of Physical Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert E. Lutz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Andrew MacAndrew, Lecturer in Russian, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Mary Ann MacDougall, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. M. Donald MacInnis, Associate Professor of Music, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gustav D. Magnuson, Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. R. Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George B. Matthews, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John C. McCoid, II, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fred C. McCormick, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Carl McFarland, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Eugene S. McVey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., Associate Professor of Music, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard A. Meade, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. J. Lawrence Meem, Professor of Nuclear Enginecring, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John F. Mesinger, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Dale R. Metcalf, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Lecturer in Business Administration, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. John W. Mitchell, William Barton Rogers Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell, Professor of Geology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward V. Mochel, Associate Professor of Engineering Drawing, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lucius G. Moffatt, Professor of Romance Philology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James W. Moore, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John H. Moore, Assistant Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John N. Moore, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert J. Morgan, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David Morris, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frederick T. Morse, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frederick S. Morton, Professor of Business Adminstration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fredrick A. Muller, Assistant Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Joseph J. Murray, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. G. Warren Nutter, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William B. O'Neal, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John A. Oppelt, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gary Orfield, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Howard W. Ozmon, Jr., Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Clinton E. Parker, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hermon M. Parker, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Carlo Pelliccia, Associate Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Lawrence R. Quarles, Lawrence R. Quarles Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work and for administrative duties, and a supplement, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert L. Ramey, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles G. Reid, Associate Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Donald L. Reid, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. L. Starling Reid, Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Laurens H. Rhinelander, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Frederick L. W. Richardson, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Hans O. Riddervold, Assistant Professor of Radiology, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. James L. Riopel, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Alan I. Ritter, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Rogers C. Ritter, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Oscar R. Rodig, Associate Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Bruce A. Rosenberg, Assistant Professor of English, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Marvin Rosenblum, Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William Rotch, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James L. Rovnyak, Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. B. F. D. Runk, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John L. Ruseau, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Larry L. Sale, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Antonin Scalia, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul N. Schatz, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William H. Seawell, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William G. Shenkir, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard, Visiting Professor of Business Administration, two-fifth time, for one year, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Donald H. Shoemaker, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Clifford M. Siegel, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William W. Sihler, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Clyde R. Smith, Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert A. Smoak, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Emerson G. Spies, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward C. Stevenson, Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker, Professor of Classics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Peter H. Taylor, Professor of English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. George B. Thomas, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ertle Thompson, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Associate Professor of Art, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Union Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Ervin R. Van Artsdalen, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert F. Vandell, Professor of Business Administration, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Professor of Humanities, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968Mr. William L. Velton, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Hernan Vidal, Assistant Professor of Spanish, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. D. Rutledge Vining, Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Walter W. Wadlington, III, Professor of Law, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Paul B. Walter, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Virgil S. Ward, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David W. Weiss, Associate Professor of Drama, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Eleanore C. Westhead, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward J. White, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas R. White, III, Associate Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Gordon T. Whyburn, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at an annual salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Eugene J. Wilhelm, Jr., Lecturer in Geography, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. D. Alan Williams, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Doris K. Wilsdorf, University Professor of Applied Science, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Heinz G. F. Wilsdorf, Wills-Johnson Professor of Materials Science, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward H. Winter, Professor of Anthropology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Charles K. Woltz, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. H. John Wood, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Calvin Woodard, Professor of Law, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. T. Braxton Woody, Professor of French, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Dr. Donald J. Wright, Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Theodore R. F. Wright, Associate Professor of Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. David C. Yalden-Thomson, Associate Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. John V. Yanik, Assistant Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Professor of Economics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert S. Young, Associate Professor of Geology, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward Younger, Professor of History, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Klaus O. H. Ziock, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William Zuk, Professor of Architecture, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The President announced the following retirements: Mr. Arthur K, Davis, Jr., Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968. Mr. Davis has been a member of the faculty since 1923.Mr. Raymond S. Edmundson, Professor of Geology, effective 30 June 1968. Mr. Edmundson has been a member of the faculty since 1946.Mr. Hugh M. Spencer, Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1968. Mr. Spencer has been a member of the faculty since 1927.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, effective 30 June 1968. Mr. Spicer has been a member of the faculty since 1928.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeriti:Mr. Arthur K. Davis, Jr., Professor of English, who retires in June 1968 and has been on the staff of the University since 1923.Mr. George W. Spicer, Professor of Government, who retires in June 1968 and has been on the staff of the University since 1928.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Floyd D. Anderson, Assistant Professor of Speech, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of Arizona.Mr. James D Beaber, Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at Louisiana State University.Mr. Thomas G. Bender, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1968, to accept a position at the University of Minnesota.Mr. Nicolas Cabrera, Chairman of the Department of Physics, effective 31 August 1968, to devote full time as Professor of Physics.Mr. Ralph W. Cherry, Dean of the School of Education, effective 31 August 1968, to devote full time as Professor of Education.Miss Anne P. Cobb, Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1968, to accompany her family to the West Coast.Mr. James W. Cole, Jr., Dean of the School of General Studies, effective 31 August 1968, to devote full time as Professor of Chemistry.Mrs. Lyle R. Fisher, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective 13 July 1968, to accompany her husband.Dr. Hector J. Hermann, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at Northwestern University.Mr. William H. Kaven, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective 31 July 1968, to accept a position at Sir George Williams College, Montreal.Mr. John P. Lipkin, Assistant Professor of Education, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at McGill University.Mr. Kongki Min, Assistant Professor of Physics, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.Mr. Giuseppe A. Mirri, Assistant Professor of Italian, effective 30 June 1968, to establish permanent residence in Italy.Mr. Alfred C. Proulx, Associate Professor of French, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of Massachusetts, Boston.Mr. Roger L. Ransom, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the University of California, Riverside.Mr. B. F. D. Runk, Dean of the University, effective 31 August 1968, to devote full time as Professor of Biology,Mr. Jose M. Valverde, Professor of Spanish, effective 30 June 1968, to accept the chairmanship of the Department of Hispanic Studies, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.Mr. William A. Wulf, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, effective 30 June 1968, to accept a position at the Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Fredson T. Bowers as Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for two sessions, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard J. Coughlin as Chairman, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Frederick R. Cyphert as Dean, School of Education, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Andre C. de Porry as Dean, School of General Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Robert Dolan as Chairman, Department of Geography, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Frank E. Flora as Associate Dean, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Assistant Director, Counseling Center, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Walter Greiner as a Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for four months, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William B. Guilford as Acting Registrar, for one year, effective 1 June 1968.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Robert J. Harris as Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences for two months, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson as Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej as Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Fred C. McCormick as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period 1 July 1968 through 15 September 1968.Mr. R. Bruce Martin as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Richard S. Mitchell as Acting Chairman, Department of Geology, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. John N. Moore as Director, Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. James L. Riopel as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Dr. Warren G. Stamp as Chairman, Department of Orthopedics, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl as Associate Dean, School of Education, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Edward C. Stevenson as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective 16 September 1968.Mr. Arthur F. Stocker as Chairman, Department of Classics, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead as Chairman, Department of Physics, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William S. Willis as Director of the Sesquicentennial, for one year, effective 1 August 1968.

APPROVAL OF 1968-69 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1968-69 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1968-69 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1968-69 University Hospital Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Medical Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing the Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on 8 December 1962.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of admissions to the University for the academic year 1968-69.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President presented a report on the current status of the University's construction program.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported on the 1967-68 salary scales for the members of the Association for American Universities, a copy of which had been sent to each member of the Board.

PROPOSED DEGREE OF MASTER OF COMPARATIVE LAW
--------------------------------------------

The President reported that the proposed new degree of Master of Comparative Law was approved by the University Senate at its meeting on 30 April 1968 and by the President, and was approved by the Educational Policy Committee at its meeting on 5 June 1968.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University is hereby authorized to award the degree of Master of Comparative Law in the School of Law.

TUITION INCREASE FOR THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES
--------------------------------------------------

Present Tuition Charge Per Semester Hour

Proposed Tuition Charge Per Semester Hour

Undergraduate courses

$14.00 per semester hour

$16.00 per semester hour

Graduate courses

$16.00 per semester hour

$18.00 per semester hour

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition increase in the School of General Studies as set forth below be and it is hereby approved, effective 1 September 1968:Present Tuition Charge Per Semester HourProposed Tuition Charge Per Semester HourUndergraduate courses$14.00 per semester hour$16.00 per semester hourGraduate courses$16.00 per semester hour$18.00 per semester hour

CHANGE IN DEGREE DESIGNATION
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1968, the designation of the degree of Bachelor of Engineering be and it is hereby changed to Bachelor of Science.

RETIREMENT OF MR. C. VENABLE MINOR AS SPECIAL COUNSEL
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Mr. C. Venable Minor, of the firm of McGuire, Woods, and Battle of Charlottesville and an alumnus of the University, has acted as Special Counsel to The Rector and Visitors for sixteen years;WHEREAS his performance of his duties as Special Counsel has been of the highest order and has contributed immensely to the development of the University;WHEREAS he has devoted many hours of thought and effort on behalf of the University for which with characteristic modesty he has never sought compensation; andWHEREAS Mr. Minor has asked the President to inform the Board of Visitors of his intention to resign from the position of Special Counsel as of 30 June 1968;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we express to Mr. Minor our warm appreciation for his distinguished accomplishments on behalf of his Alma Mater as our Special Counsel, wish for him many years of happiness in his retirement, and warn him that we and the President will continue from time to time to avail ourselves of his vast knowledge of the legal affairs of the University.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 53,103.64

Free service to Counties and Cities

355,724.26

\-------------

Total

$408,827.90

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1578, 1579, 1582, 1583, 1590, 1591, 1594, 1595, 1597, 1598, 1605, 1606, 1609, and 1610, aggregating $408,827.90, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$ 53,103.64Free service to Counties and Cities355,724.26-------------Total$408,827.90

FACULTY SALARY SCALESSchool of Nursing Faculty Salary ScaleGeorge Mason College Faculty Salary ScaleClinch Valley College Faculty Salary ScaleTwo-Year Colleges and Extension Center Faculty Salary Scale
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Rank

Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increase Interval

Normal Amt. of Increase

Professor

$13,400

2 sessions

$ 800

Associate Professor

11,000

2 sessions

500

Assistant Professor

9,200

1 session

400

Instructor

7,100

1 session

300

Junior Staff

Junior Instructor (10 Months)

6,000

1 session

300

Research Assistant A (12 Months)

6,144

1 year

288

Research Assistant B (12 Months)

9.168

1 year

432

Research Associate (12 Months)

10,500

1 year

500

Senior Physics

Research Assistant (12 Months)

8,040

1 1/2 years

360

Senior Astronomy

Research Assistant (12 Months)

8,040

1 1/2 years

360

Pre-Clinical Medical Faculty Salary Scale

Department Head

$17,000

2 years

$1,000

Professor

16,000

2 years

1,000

Associate Professor

13,800

2 years

600

Assistant Professor

11,500

1 year

500

Instructor

9,100

1 year

300

Academic Rank

Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increase Interval

Normal Amt. of Increase

Professor

$12,000

2 years

$ 500

Associate Professor

10,000

2 years

500

Assistant Professor

8,600

1 year

350

Instructor

7,300

1 year

350

Junior Instructor

6,300

1 year

350

Professor

11,000

2 sessions

600

Associate Professor

9,500

2 sessions

500

Assistant Professor

8,100

1 session

300

Instructor

7,200

1 session

300

Professor

10,000

2 sessions

600

Associate Professor

8,500

2 sessions

500

Assistant Professor

7,200

1 session

300

Instructor

6,200

1 session

200

Professor

10,000

2 sessions

500

Associate Professor

8,200

2 sessions

400

Assistant Professor

7,200

1 session

300

Instructor

6,400

1 session

300

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the general faculty salary scales as set forth below be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 September 1968:Academic RankNormal Entrance RateNormal Increase IntervalNormal Amt. of IncreaseProfessor$13,4002 sessions$ 800Associate Professor11,0002 sessions500Assistant Professor9,2001 session400Instructor7,1001 session300Junior StaffJunior Instructor (10 Months)6,0001 session300Research Assistant A (12 Months)6,1441 year288Research Assistant B (12 Months)9.1681 year432Research Associate (12 Months)10,5001 year500Senior PhysicsResearch Assistant (12 Months)8,0401 1/2 years360Senior AstronomyResearch Assistant (12 Months)8,0401 1/2 years360Pre-Clinical Medical Faculty Salary ScaleDepartment Head$17,0002 years$1,000Professor16,0002 years1,000Associate Professor13,8002 years600Assistant Professor11,5001 year500Instructor9,1001 year300School of Nursing Faculty Salary ScaleAcademic RankNormal Entrance RateNormal Increase IntervalNormal Amt. of IncreaseProfessor$12,0002 years$ 500Associate Professor10,0002 years500Assistant Professor8,6001 year350Instructor7,3001 year350Junior Instructor6,3001 year350George Mason College Faculty Salary ScaleProfessor11,0002 sessions600Associate Professor9,5002 sessions500Assistant Professor8,1001 session300Instructor7,2001 session300Clinch Valley College Faculty Salary ScaleProfessor10,0002 sessions600Associate Professor8,5002 sessions500Assistant Professor7,2001 session300Instructor6,2001 session200Two-Year Colleges and Extension Center Faculty Salary ScaleProfessor10,0002 sessions500Associate Professor8,2002 sessions400Assistant Professor7,2001 session300Instructor6,4001 session300

SESQUICENTENNIAL SCHOLARS
-------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, to the extent necessary, the income of the Robert C. Taylor fund be used to underwrite the appointment annually, beginning with the academic year of 1969-1970, of not more than eight Sesquicentennial Scholars to be chosen from among the assistant professors on the faculty of the University at Charlottesville, under such rules and regulations as are approved by the President of the University.

AUTHORIZATION TO RETAIN MCGUIRE, WOODS AND BATTLE
-------------------------------------------------

The Rector reviewed the University's relationship with the law firm of McGuire, Woods and Battle, pointing out the affiliation of both Mr. C. Venable Minor and Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. with this firm. He indicated approval of Mr. Middleditch's request to the President of the desirability of continuing this relationship, in particular, in connection with real estate acquisitions, matters of litigation, and handling of University loans under present procedures.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to retain the firm of McGuire, Woods and Battle on an advisory basis for the fiscal year 1 July 1968 - 30 June 1969, the retainer for this period to be $1200; that until otherwise directed by the Board the President, in his discretion, is further authorized to continue this retainer for succeeding fiscal years on a like basis; and otherwise to utilize such firm for such matters, including real estate acquisitions, matters of litigation, and the handling of University loans under present procedures, on such basis as he deems necessary and desirable.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the architects listed below be and they are hereby approved for the following projects:(1) George Mason College Student Union Building - John Carl Warnecke and Associates, (2) JAG School Dormitory and Dining Facilities at the Law-Graduate Business Quadrangle - Hugh Stubbins and Rawlings and Wilson, and (3) Vivarium at the Medical Center - Wiley and Wilson.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE 1966 BOARD MANUAL
-------------------------------------------

Certain amendments to the 1966 Board Manual were proposed which would have the effect of creating the position of Legal Adviser as one of the offices of the Board along with the Rector, President, Comptroller, and Secretary. As provided in Section 5.8 of the Board Manual, the proposed amendments had been submitted under the date of 27 May 1968 to the Executive Committee, with copies to the remaining members of the Board, and notice of the proposed amendments were included in the regular notice of the meeting sent to each member of the Board as required by Section 2.34 of the Board Manual.

On motion of Mrs. Brown, seconded by Mr. Johnson, the resolution as set forth below was adopted by the following recorded vote: Ayes: Frank W. Rogers, William M. Birdsong, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Richard S. Cross, W. Wright Harrison, Walkley E. Johnson, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, Joseph H. McConnell, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., William S. Potter, Lewis M. Walker, Jr., C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., and Langbourne M. Williams; Nays: None.

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, the necessary notice having been given and the views of the Executive Committee having been obtained, the following amendments to the Manual of the Board of Visitors 1966 be and they are hereby approved:

1\. Constitute "Legal Adviser of the University" as one of the "Officers" of the Board by adding that office to the listing of the officers of the Board of Visitors in the first paragraph of Chapter 4 of the Manual on page 17 so that the paragraph will read as follows:

The officers of the Board shall consist of the Rector of the University, the President of the University, the Comptroller of the University, the Legal Adviser of the University, and the Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

2\. Add a new section to the Board Manual on page 24 to read as follows:

Section 4.6 Legal Adviser of the University

Section 4.61 Election - On the nomination of the President, the Board shall elect a Legal Adviser of the University to serve at its pleasure.

Section 4.62 Powers and Duties - As the chief legal officer of the University, the Legal Adviser shall advise the Board and the President, under whose immediate direction he shall be, on all legal matters affecting the University. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or the President.

DON F. W. NEIHAUS
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, in recognition of his superior services in improving the landscaping of the University, and especially the Lawn, the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized and directed as a mark of our appreciation to present a gift of $500 to the Head of the Landscaping Division of the Department of Buildings and Grounds of the University, Mr. Don F. W. Neihaus. The payment to be made from endowment funds.

INSTRUCTIONS TO THE FINANCE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that its Finance Committee be, and it hereby is, directed to consider increasing life insurance and (or) retirement benefits for the President and the Comptroller and to submit its recommendations to the next meeting of the Board in October.

PROPOSED CHANGES IN THE PARIETAL RULES
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposals for changes, as set forth in the Report of the Review Board, dated 25 March 1968, be approved so far as the weekend hours are concerned and that the President is authorized, after further review and study with the Review Board and the occupants of the dormitories, to determine the weekday hours;RESOLVED FURTHER that these Parietal Rules, as determined by the Dean of the University, do not apply to the Summer School, and that, in addition to a detailed annual report to the President of the University, a report shall be made to the Dean of Student Affairs of each action taken by the Review Board in the administration of the Parietal Rules.

PROPOSED CHANGES IN CAR REGULATIONS
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1968, the existing car regulations be changed as follows:(1) a student shall be eligible to operate a motor vehicle if he has a grade point average of 2:00, except undergraduates with less than two semesters of residence and transfer students with less than one semester of residence; and(2) student parking on the Grounds be limited as necessary.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all assistant and associate professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Schools of Engineering Education, Commerce, and Architecture on the payroll in June 1968 shall receive a one-step salary increase, effective 1 September 1968, except as follows:1. No increase shall be effective unless approved by the appropriate dean.2. The increase shall not be applicable to individuals who are promoted effective for the 1968-69 session.3. For associate professors the increase shall not apply if an individual's salary has already been raised more than one step by a special salary action.4. For assistant professors the increase shall not apply if by special salary action an individual's salary has already been raised more than two steps.

BOND ISSUE
----------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the continued progress of the Commonwealth is so largely dependent on the availability of educational opportunities for its young men and women and of mental care for those in need;WHEREAS if the institutions are to meet these needs additional facilities are absolutely essential;WHEREAS the funds available to the 1968 General Assembly were sufficient to provide only a small part of the facilities now so urgently needed by these institutions; andWHEREAS the 1968 General Assembly, being fully cognizant of the urgency to continue the momentum toward more effective higher education and mental care, wisely decided to utilize the emergency clause in the State Constitution by directing a referendum on the issuance of $81 million in bonds to finance these facilities that will be used for years to come by many generations of students and patients;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia respectfully recommend to the voters of Virginia the authorization of this limited indebtedness as a sound investment in the future welfare of the Commonwealth; andRESOLVED FURTHER that friends and alumni of the University of Virginia are urged to work actively for the approval of the bond issue, inasmuch as the University and its affiliates will receive therefrom funds to support the cost of facilities necessary to enable them to fulfill their obligations to the people of Virginia.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Mr. Michael L. Bass as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Lorraine M. Cowall as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Miss Clotilde Dagnino as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Teruo Hara as Visiting Artist (Potter), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph E. Holmes as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Constance A. Jones as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Bernard N. Klenke as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Astrid Schneller as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Arthur L. Tracy as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard Crist Turner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Martha E. Van Zandt as Instructor in Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Roy B. Weinstock as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Joyce Wheeler as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance) for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Janet M. Whisler as Instructor in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Peter A. Fellowes as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of Mary Washington College be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Richard M. Zeleznock, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, with half salary, effective 1 September 1968, to do further advanced study at the University of Virginia.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. James H. Croushore, Professor and Associate Dean of the College, at a salary of effective 1 July 1968.Miss Mildred A. Droste, Associate Professor and Assistant Dean of Students, at a salary of effective 1 July 1968.Miss Margaret Hargrove, Professor and Dean of Students, at a salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, Assistant Professor and Assistant Dean of Students, at a salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Michael Houston, Associate Professor and Administrative Assistant to the Chancellor, at a salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Albert Ray Merchent, Associate Professor and Director of Admissions, at a salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden, Professor and Dean of the College, at a salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Richard T. Wilfong, Instructor in Biology, at a salary of effective 1 September 1968.

ELECTION OF MRS. DOROTHY D. VAN WINCKEL AS PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of Mary Washington College be and she is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mrs. Dorothy D. Van Winckel, Professor of Art, who retires in June 1968, after having served on the faculty of the College for forty-two years.

ADOPTION OF THE 1968-69 COLLEGE BUDGET
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1968-69 Mary Washington College budget, as recommended by the President and Chancellor and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Alan S. Dewey as Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mr. Ford W. Edwards as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Lawrence Edwards as Associate Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of .Mrs. Bonnie P. Elosser as Lecturer in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Miss Doris M. Kilgore as Instructor in Physical Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Michael E. O'Donnell as Instructor in French, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo as Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph L. Stallard as Instructor in Business, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visiotrs of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Harold L. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Betty J. Gilliam as Assistant Professor of Art, one-half time, for three years, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. J. Kermit Mullins as Assistant Professor of Engineering one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1968.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Richard A. Davidson, Associate Professor of Education, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Harold L. Gilbert, Assistant Professor of Psychology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward L. Henson, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William J. Hooper, Associate Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Jim N. Humphreys, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Miss Christiane F. Jaunais, Lecturer in Modern Languages, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Professor of Philosophy, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Richard J. McKay, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William F. Maxwell, Instructor in History, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy, Professor of Biology, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. W. Frank Steely, Professor of History, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Roy L. Wells, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Miss Betty S. Wham, Instructor in English, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.Mr. James C. Willis, Lecturer in Accounting, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1968.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. William L. Wilson, Associate Professor of English, effective 30 June 1968, Mr. Wilson has been a member of the faculty since 1954.

ELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM L. WILSON AS ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR EMERITUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus:Mr. William L. Wilson, Associate Professor of English, who retires in June 1968, and has been on the staff of Clinch Valley College since 1954.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Richard A. Davidson as Chairman, Department of Education and Psychology, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Alan S. Dewey as Chairman, Department of Business and Public Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Edward L. Henson as Chairman, Department of History and Sociology, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. William J. Hooper as Chairman, Department of Physical Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Jim N. Humphreys as Director of Admissions, for two years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Judd W. Lewis as Chairman, Department of Humanities, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.Mr. Thomas D. Robinson, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for five years, effective 1 September 1968.

JOHN COOK WYLLIE LIBRARY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the library building at Clinch Valley be and it is hereby named the John Cook Wyllie Library.

GEORGE BASKERVILLE ZEHMER HALL AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the classroom-administration building at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby named George Baskerville Zehmer Hall.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Stephen J. Brown as Professor of English, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mrs. Margarita E. Esparza as Lecturer in Spanish, one-half time, for two months, effective 1 April 1968, at a salary of Mr. Victor Ginsburg as Lecturer in Chemistry, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1968, at a salary of Mr. Jon R. Rinehart as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Irma W. Sanchez as Lecturer in Spanish, one-half time, for two months, effective 1 April 1968, at a salary of

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty at George Mason College:Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus for summer work, or a total salary of .

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Patrick J. Larkin, Assistant Professor (Librarian), to Associate Professor (Librarian), effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Blossom D. Golinkin, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for two months, effective 1 April 1968, with pay, to recover from injuries sustained in an automobile accident.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Robert C. Krug, Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mr. H. Mebane Turner, Associate Professor of Religion, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.

RETIREMENT
----------

The following retirement was announced: Mrs. Marion Bartlett, Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 30 June 1968. Mrs. Bartlett has been a member of the faculty since 1959.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Max Levitan, Professor of Biology, effective 31 August 1968, to accept a position at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, City University of New York.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Director of Admissions, for three years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Stephen J. Brown as Associate Dean, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. H. Mebane Turner as Dean of Students and Registrar, for five years, effective 1 July 1968.

CONVEYANCE OF ALLMAN PROPERTY TO GEORGE MASON COLLEGE FOUNDATION
----------------------------------------------------------------

The attention of the Board was called to a letter of 24 May 1968 to the Rector from Carrington Williams, partner in the Fairfax, Virginia law firm of Bauknight, Prichard, McCandlish and Williams, regarding the transfer of certain property in Fairfax County to the George Mason College Foundation, Incorporated.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS by deed dated 28 December 1966, Roy G. Allman and Maxine B. Allman, his wife, conveyed a parcel of land in Fairfax County, Virginia to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia for the sole use and benefit of George Mason College; andWHEREAS Chapter 179 of the Acts of Assembly of 1968, in force 13 March 1968, authorized The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, subject to the approval of the Governor, to convey such parcel of land to the George Mason College Foundation, Incorporated;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be, and either of them hereby is, authorized and empowered to execute a deed from The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the George Mason College Foundation, Incorporated and that the Secretary be and he hereby is authorized and empowered to affix the corporate seal of the University to such deed and to attest the same; such deed shall convey the following described real estate in Fairfax County, Virginia:BEGINNING at a point in the southerly right of way line of the property of Southern Railway, said point of beginning being N 70 14' 19'' E 362.705 feet from the northeast corner of property now or formerly Lynch, thence running with the said southerly right of way line of the property of Southern Railway N 70 14' 19'' E 362.705 feet to the northwesterly corner of the property now or formerly Howell; thence departing from the southerly right of way line of the property of Southern Railway and running with the westerly line of the now or formerly Howell property S 11 25' 33'' E 613.53 feet to a point in the northerly line of State Route #495 (Capital Beltway), thence running with the said northerly line of State Route #495 S 67 33' 00'' W 154.18 feet and S 68 16' 14'' W 279.01 feet to a point; thence departing from the northerly line of State Route #495 and running through the property of Roy G. Allman, et ux, N 5 27' 17'' W 643.83 feet to the point of beginning, containing 5.60251 acres of land;RESOLVED FURTHER, Special Counsel to the University shall obtain approval of the deed by the Attorney General and the Governor, and following such approval shall cause delivery of the deed to the George Mason College Foundation, Incorporated.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. George B. Brothers as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. William H. Browne as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Carl T. Furlow as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Nellie D. Nock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Joseph Perfetti as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. William R. Pogue, Lecturer in Commerce, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Charlton O. Wallace, Lecturer in Engineering Technology for one year, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 June 1968.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William R. Pogue as Director, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSSPECIAL SALARY ACTION
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. William D. Benham, Assistant Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected: to the faculty:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Gratia B. Groves, as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective 1 August 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Clarence A. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Associate Professor of General Studies, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1968.Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mrs. Ruby D. Mitchell as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Clyde E. Pitts as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of Mr. Charles R. Revie as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Benjamin H. Brinton, Jr., Instructor in French, for one year, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.Mrs. Delores D. Eanes, Instructor in Biology, at a session salary of effective 1 September 1968.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Director of Student Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.Mr. Sherman S. Dutton, as Director, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 July 1968, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Director, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1968.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph R. Earnest as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1968, at a session salary of

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:30 p.m.

WC:jb