Board of Visitors minutes (1969) December 6, 1969
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 6, 1969

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 6 December 1969
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 6 December 1969 in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; Acting President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors Barrett, Brown, Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, and Wilkinson.. Absent: Visitors Birdsong and McConnell. President Edgar F. Shannon is currently in England studying under a Danforth Foundation Grant. Messrs. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. and Vincent Shea were present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of 3 October 1969, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Richard E. Bonz as Lecturer in City Planning, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Dr. George Cooper, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Radiology, three-fourths time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. George A. Clum as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for three years, effective 15 October 1969, at an annual salary of $.Miss Elizabeth M. Dickson as Junior Instructor, for one year, effective 1 November 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher as Visiting Professor of Psychiatry (Medical Ethics), for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Daniel J. Meador as James Monroe Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Judge Robert R. Merhige, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Mr. Archibald M. S. Morgan, III, as Lecturer in Art, two-thirds time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of $.Miss Edwina H. Pancake as Junior Instructor, for one year, effective 17 November 1969, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles A. Plesums as Lecturer in Computer Science, for the period 15 December 1969 through 31 January 1971, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Gary K. Stonebraker as Lecturer in Architecture, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Thomas A. Wilson as Lecturer in Special Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Alfred Zawadowski as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, for six months, effective 1 November 1969, at a salary of $.

ELECTION OF FACULTY TO THE DEPARTMENT OF MARINE SCIENCE, EFFECTIVE 1 September 1969
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of the Department of Marine Science:Mr. Robert J. Byrne as Associate Professor, for three years.Mr. Dale R. Calder as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Mark E. Chittenden as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Ching Seng Fang as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Paul A. Haefner, Jr., as Associate Professor, for three years.Mr. Wyman Harrison as Associate Professor, for three years.Mr. Paul V. Hyer as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Joseph Loesch as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Richard W. Moncure as Instructor, for one year.Mr. John C. Munday, Jr., as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. Richard A. Wade as Associate Professor, for three years.Mr. Thomas D. Wright as Assistant Professor, for three years.Mr. David E. Zwerner as Instructor, for one year.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION OF MR. PETER F. GANZ
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Peter F. Ganz as Visiting Professor of German for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, as approved by the Board on 4 October 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled. Mr. Ganz is unable to leave Oxford University.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. LOUIS LUSKY
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Louis Lusky as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, as approved by the Board on 5 June 1969, be and it is hereby cancelled, because of Mr. Lusky's inability to accept the appointment.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Ronald E. Clapper as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Alistair M. Duckworth as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. H. Cassius Higgins as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. Alan B. Howard as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Harold H. Kob, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Gary H. Lindberg as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. James F. Loucks as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Minor M. Markle, III, as Assistant Professor of Classics and of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Miss Mariam E. Birdwhistell, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective 1 October 1969.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Nicolas Cabrera, Commonwealth Professor of Physics, for the period 1 February 1970 through 30 June 1971, without pay, to join the Nueva Universidad Autonoma de Madrid in Spain to initiate their Physics Department.Mr. Piet C. Gugelot, Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 January 1970, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the Enrico Fermi Institute, University of Chicago.Mr. Kenneth R. Hall, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, for one year, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, to gain experience through position with Chem Share Corporation.Mr. Alan B. Howard, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, to accept a Fulbright Award to Australia.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Samuel J. Berner, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 October 1969.Mr. Hoyt N. Duggan, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Richard E. Ellis, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 October 1969.Mr. George L. Falkenhagen, from Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, to Lecturer in Engineering Drawing, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. Spencer Hall, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Ernest H. Ern, Jr., Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, at a session salary of $12,750, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, at a session salary of $, effective 1 September 1969.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Manuchehr S. Alvai, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective 31 January 1970, to return to Iran.Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law, effective 31 January 1970, to accept the post of Judge on the International Court of Justice.Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Professor of Architecture, effective 31 January 1970, because of family responsibilities and professional commitments.Mr. Gustav D. Magnuson, Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, effective 3 October 1969, for personal reasons.Dr. Kolar N. Seshanarayana, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective 31 December 1969, to return to India.Mr. Robert E. Stocking, Assistant Professor, effective 17 October 1969, to accept a position with the National Archives and Records Service.Mr. Robert S. Young, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective 31 January 1970, to devote full time to professional activities.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Dr. Robert M. Berne as Associate Dean of Medicine, Basic Science Departments, for the period 1 October 1969 through 30 June 1970.Dr. David R. Hawkins as Associate Dean of Medicine, Clinical Departments, for the period 1 October 1969 through 30 June 1970.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay as Assistant to the Dean of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 November 1969.Mr. Charles A. Plesums as Manager of Programming and Systems, Computer Science Center, for the period 15 December 1969 through 31 January 1971.Mr. Alfred Zawadowski as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for six months, effective 1 November 1969.

CARMEN G. BLOUGH PROFESSORSHIP IN ACCOUNTING
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Commerce to be known as the Carmen G. Blough Professorship in Accounting.

WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR. PROFESSORSHIPS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the gift of $1,000,000 offered to the University on 29 October 1969 by the William R. Kenan, Jr.-Charitable Trust be and it is hereby accepted with profound gratitude; that the principal of the gift be invested with the permanent endowment of the University; and that all income from the gift be used to establish and maintain in perpetuity professorships of such eminence and distinction as to bring honor and respect to the memory of William Rand Kenan, Jr., with whose name they shall be forever associated;RESOLVED FURTHER that the William R. Kenan Professorships be and they are hereby established; that they shall be supported by all of the income from this $1,000,000 gift; and that under the terms of the gift, the income will be matched by funds provided by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of attracting and retaining eminent scholars under its Eminent Scholars Program.RESOLVED FURTHER that the William R. Kenan, Jr. Professors shall be scholars whose enthusiasm for learning, commitment to teaching, and personal interest in students will make a notable contribution to the undergraduate community of the University; that it shall be within the province of the University to select the professors and the departments in which the income is to be used; that the University shall have discretion to make changes from time to time in the selection of professors and departments; and that the President shall in 1975 and at the end of each five years thereafter report to the Kenan Trustees upon the condition of the William R. Kenan, Jr. Professorships, with suitable comment upon the educational benefits deriving from the gift establishing them;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary is hereby directed to transmit to the Trustees of the William R. Kenan, Jr.-Charitable Trust a copy of this resolution, as evidence both of our corporate and individual gratitude for their wise and farseeing investment in great teaching and scholarship and of our commitment to the purposes of their grant.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1970
-----------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 5, 6, and 7 February 1970

Fredericksburg

Monday, 9 March 1970

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 9, 10, and 11 April 1970

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 3, 4, and 5 June 1970

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 30 September, and 1 and 2 October 1970

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 3, 4, and 5 December 1970

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1970 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved:Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, 5, 6, and 7 February 1970FredericksburgMonday, 9 March 1970CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 9, 10, and 11 April 1970CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 3, 4, and 5 June 1970CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 30 September, and 1 and 2 October 1970CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, 3, 4, and 5 December 1970Charlottesville

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period 1 July 1968 to 30 June 1969" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$115,669.75

Free service to Counties and Cities

154,789.82

\-------------

Total

$270,459.57

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1759, 1760, 1763, 1764, 1766, and 1767, aggregating $270,459.57, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts, etc.$115,669.75Free service to Counties and Cities154,789.82-------------Total$270,459.57

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO SESQUICENTENNIAL PARTICIPANTS
-----------------------------------------------------

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

Mrs. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr.

Mr. William A. Hobbs

Mr. Richard F. Shutts

Mr. B. F. D. Runk

Mr. Hardy C. Dillard

Mr. Russell Mooney

Mr. Charles Woltz

Mr. Henry J. Taylor

Mrs. Roger Thompson

Mr. H. I. Taylor

Mr. A. E. Dick Howard

Mr. David Weiss

Dr. Thomas H. Hunter

Mr. E. R. Slaughter

Mr. J. J. Murray

Mr. Donald G. Loach

Mr. Laurin Henry

Mr. David R. Goldsmith

Mr. George C. Palmer

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Sesquicentennial celebration of the University was an occasion of great importance in the history of the institution; andWHEREAS the celebration was planned and carried through with precision and dignity; andWHEREAS the celebration was successful because of efforts beyond the call of duty on the part of members of the community and members of the University faculty and staff;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that expressions of congratulations and of thanks be extended to all who labored to insure the success of the Sesquicentennial celebration.The Rector reported that, in order to avoid the delay until the December Board meeting, he had in the name of the Board of Visitors written letters of congratulations and thanks to the following persons who worked beyond the call of duty to insure the success of the Sesquicentennial celebration:Mr. and Mrs. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.Mrs. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr.Mr. William A. HobbsMr. Richard F. ShuttsMr. B. F. D. RunkMr. Hardy C. DillardMr. Russell MooneyMr. Charles WoltzMr. Henry J. TaylorMrs. Roger ThompsonMr. H. I. TaylorMr. A. E. Dick HowardMr. David WeissDr. Thomas H. HunterMr. E. R. SlaughterMr. J. J. MurrayMr. Donald G. LoachMr. Laurin HenryMr. David R. GoldsmithMr. George C. PalmerThe Board resolved to extend expressions of appreciation to Frank W. Rogers, Rector, for his dedication to the Sesquicentennial celebration.

REPORT ON LISTENING DEVICE
--------------------------

The President reported that on 3 October 1969, during a meeting of the full Board, a small electronic listening device was discovered by Mrs. E. Parker Brown in the Board Room on the second floor of Pavilion VIII. The device had fallen from the underside of the meeting room table to which it had been affixed with several strips of masking tape.

The device was delivered by the Secretary of the Board, Raymond C. Bice, to W. Wade Bromwell, Director of the University's Department of Security, and an investigation of the incident was ordered.

On 4 October, the device and masking tape strips were transmitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Washington, for analysis. In a report dated 13 October, the F.B.I. Laboratory identified the device as a miniature FM radio transmitter complete with microphone and battery and with an operational capability or useful range, depending upon conditions, of approximately fifty (50) feet. The transmitting device is manufactured in New York State and is not sold locally. On 16 October, the F.B.I.'s Latent Fingerprint Section reported that no latent fingerprints of value were found on or developed from the masking tape.

Later, the Field Engineering Bureau of the Federal Communications Commission took custody of the device for examination. On 1 December, Mr. J. J. Freeman, Engineer in Charge, advised that with variations to the antenna, the device would transmit from fifty (50) to one hundred (100) feet and further, that an FCC investigation had revealed no possible suspects. Investigations by the F.B.I. are being continued.

To date, inquiries by Department of Security personnel have failed to disclose any suspects.

CHANGE IN SECOND SEMESTER REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 15 September 1969 the following changes in the University regulations be and they are hereby made:1. Delete from the regulations the statement headed "Second Semester Registration"Add to the regulation headed "Registration"Eligible students will register as directed by the Registrar at the opening of each semester.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE 1966 BOARD MANUAL
--------------------------------------------

Certain amendments to the 1966 Board Manual were proposed. As required by Sections 5.8 and 2.34 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966 the Executive Committee unanimously approved the proposed amendments at its meeting on 3 October 1969, and notice of the proposed amendments were included in the regular notice of the meeting sent to each member of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, the necessary notice having been given and the views of the Executive Committee having been obtained, the following amendments to the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966 be and they are hereby approved:I. Add a new subsection to Section 2.4 of the Board Manual on page 10 to read as follows:"(24) the election, with the concurrence of the President, of the chief local administrative officers of Mary Washington, George Mason, and Clinch Valley Colleges, such officers having the title of Chancellor and being directly responsible to the President."II. Change Section 4.22 (4) of the Board Manual on page 20 to read as follows: (4) He shall have the power to establish and modify as he deems necessary the internal administrative structure of the University and shall appoint, or provide for the appointment of, all administrative officers except for the Chancellors of Mary Washington, George Mason, and Clinch Valley Colleges, making a report of his actions thereon at the next regular meeting;III. Conforming amendments: move suffix "and" from subsection (22) to subsection (23) of Section 2.4 of the Board Manual on page 10 such that these subsections shall read as follows:"(22) the approval of the annual budget;(23) the formulation and periodic revision of long-range plans; and"

REPORT ON CRANBERG MATTER
-------------------------

The President advised the full Board that the meeting by the Educational Policy Committee to hear Mr. Cranberg's grievances has been set for Saturday, 20 December 1969 at 11:00 a.m.

ELECTION OF RECTOR
------------------

A regular meeting will be held on 9 March 1970 at 10:00 a.m. at which time a new rector will be elected.

REPORT ON THE MOYSTON ESTATE
----------------------------

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch presented a report on the Moyston Estate.

REPORT ON HONOR COMMITTEE MATTERS
---------------------------------

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch presented comments on current matters before the Honor Committee.

REPORT ON THE WOMEN'S SUIT
--------------------------

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. presented a report on the women's suit.

REPORT ON THE JAMES M. SHEA MATTER
----------------------------------

The President presented a report on the James M. Shea matter.

VINCENT ESTATE
--------------

The President reported on the Hugh E. Vincent Estate. Under resolution of the Board of Visitors of 7 October 1966, Mr. Richard W. Gamble of New Orleans, Louisiana was appointed as successor to Judge Wayne G. Borah in the Vincent Estate. As such, Mr. Gamble was authorized to act as the representative of the University in all matters in which Judge Borah had been previously authorized to act under resolution of 20 April 1963. In addition, Mr. Gamble was empowered to act in the University's behalf in all leasing agreements and investments concerning any property included in the Vincent Estate.

The University has heretofore, by letter, authorized Mr. Gamble to act on its behalf in various matters, including leasing agreements with respect to oil and other mineral rights in certain lands situated in the state of Louisiana. A recommendation has been made to update and enlarge upon the authority previously granted by resolution to Mr. Gamble.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, in addition to his prior authority granted by the Board of Visitors' resolution of 7 October 1966, Richard W. Gamble be and he hereby is authorized, empowered and directed in the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (known also as the "University of Virginia") to execute any conveyance, agreement or other document (including, without limitation, leasing agreements pertaining to oil and other mineral rights), with respect to certain lands situated in the State of Louisiana, an interest in which was acquired under the will of the late Hugh E. Vincent, probated April 24, 1951 in the proceedings No. 304-985 of the Civil District Court of Orleans Parrish, Louisiana, provided only that such action is approved by telegram or letter signed by either the President, the Comptroller or the Special Counsel of the University of Virginia; and that all such action heretofore taken by Richard W. Gamble be and it hereby is approved, ratified and confirmed.

APPOINTMENT OF BLANDY FARM COMMITTEE
------------------------------------

As required by Section 3.3 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors 1966, the Rector announced the appointment of a Special Committee on Blandy Farm, for one year, effective 4 December 1969. The members are as follows:

J. Sloan Kuykendall, Chairman

Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.

Lewis M. Walker, Jr.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT OF MISS MARY E. WHITNEY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Hereford announced that the term of Miss Mary E. Whitney as Dean of Women will terminate in June 1970 and that President Shannon received a letter from Miss Whitney requesting that she not be re-appointed.

LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS
---------------------

After a report by Mr. Frank W. Rogers and Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., the Special Counsel was authorized to request appropriate legislators to introduce legislation regarding the following:

(a) Borrowing for acquisition of real estate

(b) Limitation upon interest

(c) Air rights over public streets

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERRESIGNATION
-----------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Bennett E. Koffman, Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, effective 31 January 1970, for personal reasons.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Barnard D. Joy as Professor of Education, one-half time, for two years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mrs. Sylvia W. Holton, Associate Professor of English, effective 31 January 1970, to accompany her husband to Europe.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSCHANGE OF TITLE
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, from Lecturer in Sociology, to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Paul D. Elosser, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of $, effective 1 February 1970.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESAPPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. John M. Dunnavant, Jr., as Director, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 February 1970.

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESSPECIAL SALARY ACTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey, Lecturer in General Studies and Director, Southwestern Virginia Regional Office, at a session salary of $ plus 20 percent for summer work, and $ for administrative duties, or a total salary of $, effective 1 November 1969.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 1:04 p.m.

RCB:jb