Board of Visitors minutes (1969) April 5, 1969
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 5, 1969

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 5 April 1969
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on 5 April 1969 in the Office of the Chancellor of Mary Washington College at Fredericksburg, Virginia with the following persons present: Rector Frank W. Rogers; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors Barrett, Birdsong, Brown, Cross, Hartwell Harrison, Wright Harrison, Johnson, Kendig, Kuykendall, Parrish, Potter, Walker, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Absent: Absent was Visitor McConnell. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. was present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson, Michael Houston and Edgar E. Woodward were present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters.

The minutes of the meeting of 15 February 1969, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

DEATH OF CHARLES R. FENWICK
---------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on 22 February 1969 of Charles R. Fenwick, a member of the Board of Visitors from 1 March 1958 to 28 February 1962 and Rector of the University from 18 April 1964 to 28 February 1966.

DEATH OF WHITWELL W. COXE
-------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on 27 February 1969 of Whitwell W. Coxe, a member of the Board of Visitors from 1 March 1954 to 28 February 1962.

RESIGNATION OF THE SECRETARY
----------------------------

The Rector announced that the Secretary, Mr. Cooper, had submitted his resignation as Secretary, effective 6 June 1969, to return full-time to his duties in the Institute of Government and the Department of Government and Foreign Affairs.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Vaughn C. Ball as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Ronald H. Bauerle as Associate Professor of Biology, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Samuel J. Berner as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jeanne C. Biggar as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Sven O. E. Ebbesson as Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, effective 1 March 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. John W. Ellwood as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. John R. Faulkner as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. George E. Hoffer as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Lavahn G. Hoh as Instructor in Drama, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert J. Huskey as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Dr. George A. Jansen as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective 1 August 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert J. Kadner as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. S. Morris Kupchan as John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert D. Landel as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Dahlard L. Lukes as Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William S. McKee as Assistant Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph H. Miller as Visiting Professor of English, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Simon Pepper as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald J. Perry as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, three-fourths time, for the period 1 March 1969 through 30 June 1969, at a salary of Mr. Walter D. Pilkey as Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for two years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Richard R. Ranta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. James S. Roberts as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Gerard J. Roubichou as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles L. Saunders, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Jean M. Scanlan as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective 1 October 1969, at an annual salary of .Mr. Ronald S. Scott as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Marshall S. Shapo as Visiting Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Arthur G. Stevens, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. David G. Temple as Visiting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert H. Trent as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Carl Trindle as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Dr. Harvey N. Vandegrift as Lecturer in Preventive Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John K. Whitaker as Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Alan B. Williamson as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of

ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROSURGERY
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Alumni Professorship in Neurosurgery.

ELECTION OF DR. JOHN A. JANE AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF NEUROSURGERY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John A. Jane be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Neurosurgery, effective 14 March 1969, at an annual salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Harry L. Archer as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Miss Nancy E. Ballard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert E. Barker, Jr., as Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Max D. Evans as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Vernon E. George as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one month, effective 1 April 1969, at a salary of $1,660.Dr. John C. Hortenstine as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective 1 February 1969.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Arthur M. Smith as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. James S. Tuley as Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1969.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MR. FREDERICK A COOPER
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Frederick A. Cooper as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, as approved by the Board on 14 December 1968, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CANCELLATION OF RE-ELECTION OF MISS CAROLYN M. PRATT
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Miss Carolyn M. Pratt as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, as approved by the Board on 14 December 1968, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 15 FEBRUARY 1969
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Miss Jeanette A. Brown, Miss Eleanore C. Westhead, and Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., as approved by the Board on 15 February 1969, be changed to read as follows:Miss Jeanette A. Brown as Assistant Professor of Education, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Miss Eleanore C. Westhead as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. J. Taylor Beard, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Neil H. Borden, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Morris L. Brehmer, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James A. D. Cox, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William J. Davis, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Robert A. Jahrsdoerfer, from Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Edwin B. Joseph, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Graham C. Lilly, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Peter W. Low, Associate Professor to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. George B. Matthews, from Associate Professor, to Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. John N. Moore, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Maynard M. Nichols, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John J. Norcross, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John L. Ruseau, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William G. Shenkir, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., from Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Marvin L. Wass, from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edward J. White, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas G. Williamson, from Associate Professor, to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for the period 1 March 1969 through 30 June 1971, without pay, to accept the position of Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, United States Treasury Department.Mr. Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Professor of Architecture, for one month, effective 1 April 1969, without pay, for personal reasons.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a Danforth-Harbison Award for research.Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, for the period 1 March 1969 through 30 June 1969, without pay, because of serious illness.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship for research.Mr. Edward A. Kolodziej, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to carry out research under a grant from the Ford Foundation.Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English and American Literature, for one semester, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship for research.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to do research and writing.Mr. Michael Mezey, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to teach in Thailand on a Rockefeller Foundation Grant.Mr. G. Warren Nutter, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for the period 4 March 1969 through 30 June 1971, without pay, to serve as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period 1 July 1969 through 31 August 1969, without pay, to continue her studies at the Rockefeller Institute.Mr. Roy A. Schotland, Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, without pay, to accept a position as Chief Counsel of the Securities and Exchange Commission's study of the impact of institutional investors on the stock market.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Jr., Commonwealth Professor of Mathematics, at an annual salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Jack R. Gallagher, Assistant Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 21 February 1969.Mr. Dante L. Germino, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at an annual salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Associate Professor of Commerce, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Assistant Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective 1 January 1969.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. David W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and of Biomedical Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, at an annual salary of effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Clinton E. Parker, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, at a session salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. William H. Runge, Assistant Professor and Curator of Rare Books, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Professor of Education, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of , effective 1 July 1969.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Michael B. Burke, Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, effective 18 March 1969, because of illness.Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield, as Chairman, Department of Neurosurgery, effective 14 March 1969.Dr. Cloid D. Green, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at St. John's University, Newfoundland.Mr. Wendell E. Malbon, Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Old Dominion College.Mr. Gary Orfield, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective 30 June 1969, to accept a position at Princeton University.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointment was announced: Major Lester Greenwood as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective summer 1969.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Ronald H. Bauerle as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 August 1969.Mr. Richard L. Beard as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education in the School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Richard M. Brandt as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education in the School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Helen G. Burr as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology in the School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Bruce A. Chartres as Associate Director, Computer Science Center, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Jr., as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. John R. Faulkner as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision in the School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Robert J. Huskey as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. S. Morris Kupchan as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson as Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Edward J. McShane as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Richard A. Meade as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction in the School of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Leland B. Yeager as Acting Chairman, Department of Economics, for the period 4 March 1969 through 30 June 1970.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF DR. JOHN A. JANE
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the appointment of Dr. John A. Jane as Chairman, Department of Neurosurgery, as approved by the Board on 4 October 1968, be changed from 1 July 1969 to 14 March 1969.

DEATH OF MR. STEPHAN LUDEWIG
----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. LADLEY HUSTED
--------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT ON SESQUICENTENNIAL MATTERS
----------------------------------

The President reported on the present status of the Sesquicentennial celebration.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts, etc.

$ 21,044.33

Free Service to Counties and Cities

79,862.20

\------------

Total

$100,906.53

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1696, 1697, 1700, and 1701, aggregating $100,906.53, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad Debts, etc.$ 21,044.33Free Service to Counties and Cities79,862.20------------Total$100,906.53

THE GILMER PROPERTY
-------------------

The President reported that pursuant to the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee on 13 February 1969, prospective purchasers submitted sealed bids for 1.5 acres of unimproved land located east of Ridge Street in Charlottesville which had been conveyed to the University as a gift. The high bid was $3,500 submitted by Henry H. Bell who wishes title to be conveyed to himself and his wife, Verlease J. Bell, as tenants by entirety.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that in consideration for $3,500 cash, the President or Comptroller be and either of them is, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, hereby authorized to convey to Henry H. Bell and Verlease J. Bell, as tenants by the entirety, 1.5 acres of land located east of Ridge Street in the City of Charlottesville, such deed to be subject to the approval of the University's Special Counsel.

FACULTY SALARY SCALES
---------------------

Pre-Clinical Medical Faculty Salary Scale

Rank

Current Scale

Proposed Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Increase

Normal Interval

Department

$17,000

$19,500

$1,500

2 years

Professor

16,000

18,000

1,500

2 years

Associate Professor

13,800

14,400

900

2 years

Assistant Professor

11,500

12,000

600

1 year

Instructor

9,100

9,500

500

1 year

School of Nursing Faculty Salary Scale

Professor

$12,000

$15,000

$1,000

2 years

Associate Professor

10,000

12,000

750

2 years

Assistant Professor

8,600

10,000

500

1 year

Instructor

7,300

7,600

400

1 year

Junior Instructor

6,300

6,600

400

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the faculty salary scales as set forth below be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 July 1969:Pre-Clinical Medical Faculty Salary ScaleRankCurrent ScaleProposed Normal Entrance RateNormal IncreaseNormal IntervalDepartment$17,000$19,500$1,5002 yearsProfessor16,00018,0001,5002 yearsAssociate Professor13,80014,4009002 yearsAssistant Professor11,50012,0006001 yearInstructor9,1009,5005001 yearSchool of Nursing Faculty Salary ScaleProfessor$12,000$15,000$1,0002 yearsAssociate Professor10,00012,0007502 yearsAssistant Professor8,60010,0005001 yearInstructor7,3007,6004001 yearJunior Instructor6,3006,6004001 year

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE FACULTY SALARY SCALE
-----------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale

Proposed Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Amount

Normal Interval

Professor

$11,000

$12,000

First step

$600

Each succeeding step

700

2 years

Associate Professor

9,500

10,500

500

2 years

Assistant Professor

8,100

8,800

400

1 year

Instructor

7,200

7,200

300

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the current rates for the faculty at George Mason College as set forth below be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 September 1969:RankCurrent ScaleProposed Normal Entrance RateNormal AmountNormal IntervalProfessor$11,000$12,000First step$600Each succeeding step7002 yearsAssociate Professor9,50010,5005002 yearsAssistant Professor8,1008,8004001 yearInstructor7,2007,2003001 year

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY SALARY SCALE
------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale

Proposed Normal Entrance Rate

Normal Amount

Normal Interval

Professor

$10,000

$12,000

First step

$600

Each succeeding step

700

2 years

Associate Professor

8,500

10,500

500

2 years

Assistant Professor

7,200

8,800

400

1 year

Instructor

6,200

7,200

300

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the current rates for the faculty at Clinch Valley College as set forth below be and they are hereby approved, effective 1 September 1969:RankCurrent ScaleProposed Normal Entrance RateNormal AmountNormal IntervalProfessor$10,000$12,000First step$600Each succeeding step7002 yearsAssociate Professor8,50010,5005002 yearsAssistant Professor7,2008,8004001 yearInstructor6,2007,2003001 year

THE BETA CHAPTER OF ZETA PSI
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Beta Chapter was established at the University of Virginia in 1968;WHEREAS this organization has encouraged leadership and scholarship;WHEREAS its members over the years, both as undergraduates and as Alumni, have demonstrated love and devotion for the University; andWHEREAS its undergraduates and Alumni have been strong supporters of the University's high principles, ideals, code of conduct, and the Honor System;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we congratulate the Beta Chapter on the occasion of its centennial celebration, commend it for its record of contribution to the life of the University, and wish the Beta Chapter success in their effort toward further achievement in the coming years.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Mary Washington College:Mr. Clavio F. Ascari as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Rosalia C. Ascari as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Janet F. Bonyhard as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. James B. Gouger as Assistant Professor of Geography and Geology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Ayako Imai as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Nikola Milana Nikolic as Acting Associate Professor of Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jane N. Saladin as Registrar and Director of Financial Aid with the academic rank of Lecturer, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at an annual salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Bulent I. Atalay as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael L. Bass as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Joel H. Bernstein as Assistant Professor of Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Otho C. Campbell as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Anne Capelle as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Madeline L. Cohen as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Nancy C. Dosch as Assistant Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, one-fourth time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mrs. Margaret Sue Early as Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .Mr. Peter Fellowes as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Ruth T. Friedman as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at two-thirds salary of for the 1969-70 session.Mrs. Joyce Gardner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jeanne Chalifoux Goddin as Instructor in Music (Harp), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary to be paid on a per-student fee basis.Mr. Richard E. Hansen as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Teruo Hara as Lecturer in Art (Visiting Artist), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mrs. Ruby C. Harris as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a base salary of , the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.Miss Mary Jane Hyde as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Constance A. Jones as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Lafayette J. Jones as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Carol A. Kemmler as Instructor in Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Bennett E. Koffman as Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Joanna Looney as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie, Jr., as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lydie S. Mann as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Roberta A. Rankin as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Joan R. Robbins as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of Mrs. Yvonne M. Sabine as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of Miss Astrid Schneller as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Jaime Sendra as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Glen R. Thomas as Assistant Professor of American Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Miss Martha E. Van Zandt as Instructor in Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Janet M. Whisler as Instructor in Economics and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard T. Wilfong as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Murat Williams as Lecturer in Economics and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made:Mr. Zoltan A. Antony, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (German), effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Marshall E. Bowen, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Geography and Geology, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Daniel A. Dervin, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Albert G. Duke, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Dana G. Finnegan, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Delmont F. Fleming, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Miss Janet M. Gardner, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Anne F. Hamer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1969 at a session salary of .Miss Rosemary Herman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Portuguese and Spanish), effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Edwin H. Jones, Associate Professor, to Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Bernard C. Lemoine, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Cornelia D. Oliver, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Raman K. Singh, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul C. Slayton, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Arthur L. Tracy, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Alexander K. Tyree, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Richard E. Hansen, Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at Duke University.Mr. Bernard C. Lemoine, Associate Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at Catholic University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, from Director of Student Affairs and Assistant Professor of Education to Director of Student Affairs with the academic rank of Lecturer, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Glen R. Thomas, from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of American Studies, effective 1 September 1969.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

(1) The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the faculty salary scale approved for 1 September 1969 be effective 1 July 1969 for the following:Mr. James H. Croushore, Associate Dean and Professor of English.Miss Mildred A. Droste, Assistant Dean of Students and Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, Director of Student Affairs with the academic rank of Lecturer.Mr. Michael Houston, Assistant to the Chancellor and Associate Professor of History.Mrs. Mary A. K. Kelly, Director of the Testing Center and Associate Professor of Psychology.Mr. A. Ray Merchent, Director of Admissions and Associate Professor of Education.Mrs. Jane N. Saladin, Registrar and Director of Financial Aid with the academic rank of Lecturer.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden, Dean and Professor of English.Mr. Daniel H. Woodward, Librarian-elect and Professor of English.

(2) The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Burton Cooper, Assistant Professor of Religion, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Assistant Professor of Art, at a salary of , effective 1 September 1969.

RESIGNATIONS AND RETIREMENTS
----------------------------

The following resignations and retirements were announced: Mr. William A. Castle, Professor of Biology, retiring after 28 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 June 1969.Mr. E. Boyd Graves, Professor of Philosophy, retiring after 32 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 June 1969.Miss Margaret Hargrove, Dean of Students and Professor of Classics, retiring after 13 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 1 September 1969. Miss Hargrove will accept a position at Isabella Thoburn College, University of Lucknow, Lucknow, India, assisting the President, Dr. Eva Shipstone, with plans, programs and publicity for the centennial celebration of the college, to be observed throughout 1970. The appointment will begin in November 1969 and continue throughout the centennial year.Miss Emily Haymes, Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, resigning to return to graduate school as a full-time student, effective 30 June 1969.Miss Anne F. Henderson, Assistant Professor of Health Physical Education, and Recreation, resigning for personal reasons, effective 30 June 1969.Mrs. Helen R. Luntz, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), resigning for personal reasons after 11 years of service to Mary Washington College, effective 30 June 1969.Miss Patricia J. Patton, Assistant Professor of English, resigning to accept a position at the University of Missouri, effective 30 June 1969.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: 1. ChairmanshipsMiss Margery E. Arnold as Chairman of the Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Miss Guenndolyn A. Beeler as Chairman of the Department of Home Economics, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Grover Preston Burns as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Samuel T. Emory, Jr., as Chairman of the Department of Geography and Geology, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Lewis P. Fickett as Chairman of the Department of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Albert R. Klein as Chairman of the Department of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mrs. Laura V. Sumner as Chairman of the Department of Classics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Joseph C. Vance as Chairman of the Department of History, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. George M. Van Sant as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.2. AdministrativeMiss Mildred A. Droste as Dean of Students and Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, effective 1 July 1969.Mrs. Mary A. K. Kelly as Director of the Counseling Center and Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 July 1969.

STUDENT FEES
------------

Current Charges

Charges to Become Effective on 1 September 1969

Virginia Students

Out-of-State Students

Virginia Students

Out-of-State Students

Tuition

$ None

$ 700

$ None

$ 700

General College Fees

600

600

600

600

Student Activity Fee

27

27

27

27

Residential Fee

350

350

398

398

Board

358

358

385

385

\-------

\-------

\-------

\-------

$ 1,335

$2,035

$ 1,410

$2,110

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the student fees at Mary Washington College shall be as shown below, effective 1 September 1969:Current ChargesCharges to Become Effective on 1 September 1969Virginia StudentsOut-of-State StudentsVirginia StudentsOut-of-State StudentsTuition$ None$ 700$ None$ 700General College Fees600600600600Student Activity Fee27272727Residential Fee350350398398Board358358385385----------------------------$ 1,335$2,035$ 1,410$2,110

SALARY SCALE
------------

PROFESSOR

Present

$11,700

$12,100

$12,500

$12,900

$13,300

$13,700

$14,100

Proposed

12,600

13,000

13,400

13,800

14,200

14,600

15,000

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

Present

9,800

10,200

10,600

11,000

11,400

11,800

Proposed

10,600

11,000

11,400

11,800

12,200

12,600

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

Present

8,600

8,900

9,200

9,500

9,800

Proposed

8,900

9,200

9,500

9,800

10,100

INSTRUCTOR

Present

7,400

7,700

8,000

8,300

8,600

Proposed

7,700

8,000

8,300

8,600

8,900

ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR

Present

6,400

6,700

7,000

7,300

Proposed

6,700

7,000

7,300

7,600

MERIT INCREASES

INCREMENT

INTERVAL

Professors and Associate Professors

$400

Annually

All Others

$300

Annually

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the salary scale for Mary Washington College as proposed below be and it is hereby approved, effective 1 September 1969:PROFESSORPresent$11,700$12,100$12,500$12,900$13,300$13,700$14,100Proposed12,60013,00013,40013,80014,20014,60015,000ASSOCIATE PROFESSORPresent9,80010,20010,60011,00011,40011,800Proposed10,60011,00011,40011,80012,20012,600ASSISTANT PROFESSORPresent8,6008,9009,2009,5009,800Proposed8,9009,2009,5009,80010,100INSTRUCTORPresent7,4007,7008,0008,3008,600Proposed7,7008,0008,3008,6008,900ASSISTANT INSTRUCTORPresent6,4006,7007,0007,300Proposed6,7007,0007,3007,600MERIT INCREASESINCREMENTINTERVALProfessors and Associate Professors$400AnnuallyAll Others$300Annually

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Howard R. Bloch as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Benjamin F. Holmes as Instructor in Georgraphy, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Sylvia W. Holton as Associate Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald J. Jensen as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. William F. Lankford as Assistant Professor of Physics, for two years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Antonio G. Rodriguez as Assistant Professor of French, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

ELECTION TO FACULTY OF ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN
------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following member of the library staff of George Mason College of the University of Virginia be and he is hereby elected to the Faculty of George Mason College, to be listed in the appropriate faculty section of the catalogue of George Mason College by the title of the library position only.Mr. Richard B. O'Keeffe as Assistant Professor, for three years, effective 1 April 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mr. Norman A. Yance, from Instructor in Religion to Acting Assistant Professor of Religion, for one semester, effective 1 February 1969.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE BOARD OF CONTROL
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Board of Control for George Mason College Land Acquisition, formerly designated as the Board of Control for the Establishment of a Branch College in Northern Virginia, established by joint resolution of the counties of Fairfax and Arlington and the cities of Falls Church and Alexandria, recognizing the need for additional land for the growth and development of a university in Northern Virginia, arranged with the Northern Virginia Regional Planning and Economic Development Commission to undertake a study of the needs for higher education in Northern Virginia and to determine the amount of land which would be required for the development of a regional university;WHEREAS the Board of Control upon receiving the report from the Northern Virginia Regional Planning and Economic Development Commission arranged for an appraisal of the amount of money needed to acquire approximately 450 acres of land adjacent to the original site of the College, which sum was estimated at $3 million;WHEREAS the Board of Control determined a method of apportioning the $3 million among the four jurisdictions comprising the Board and recommended that each of the jurisdictions provide a proportionate share of the $3 million;WHEREAS the cities of Falls Church and Alexandria agreed to provide their share from current revenues and the counties of Fairfax and Arlington included their shares in bond referenda submitted to the voters in 1966, which were passed overwhelmingly;WHEREAS the Board of Control then proceeded to appoint a General Counsel, a Special Counsel and a Clerk of the Board to proceed with the land acquisition program as approved on the public facilities map of Fairfax County; andWHEREAS the Board of Control has now purchased 420 acres of land adjacent to the 150-acre site of George Mason College which was donated to the University of Virginia in 1959 by the then Town of Fairfax;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby proclaim and record our appreciation for the diligent, effective, and unselfish service of each and everyone serving as a member of the Board of Control since its creation in 1957 and, as a mark of our esteem, we do hereby direct the Secretary to record this resolution in the Permanent Minutes.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Julia R. Heise as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald H. Heise as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mrs. Catherine J. Mahony as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Mel J. Mahony as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of Mr. Warren W. Norton as Assistant Professor of Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert H. Sanders as Professor of Sociology, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Donald H. Askins, Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, with half-pay, to complete his dissertation for the Ph.D. at the University of Virginia.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Clarence A. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. John E. Buck, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Assistant Professor of English, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Milton A. Davis as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. James W. McIntosh, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Ruby D. Mitchell as Assistant Professor of Spanish, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Miss Jeanne R. Nostrandt as Assistant Professor of English, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Clyde E. Pitts as Assistant Professor of History, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Charles R. Revie as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Benjamin H. Brinton, Jr., from Instructor, to Assistant Professor of French, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mr. Sherman S. Dutton, from Associate Professor, to Professor of General Studies, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mrs. Delores D. Eanes, from Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Biology, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of .Mrs. Marie M. Garrett, from Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969, at a session salary of

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Nathaniel V. Daniel, Jr., as Director of Student Affairs, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Sherman S. Dutton as Director, Patrick Henry College, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

EASTERN SHORE BRANCH MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. William H. Browne as Assistant Professor of Government and History, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Carl T. Furlow as Assistant Professor of English, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Richard E. Jenkins, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mrs. Nellie D. Nock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.Mr. Joseph Perfetti as Assistant Professor of Spanish, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. William R. Pogue, from Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Commerce, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Jimmie L. Willis, from Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Biology, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William R. Pogue as Director, Eastern Shore Branch, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Acting Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 October 1969.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director, Hampton Roads Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Associate Professor of Mathematics, Madison Field Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1969.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Franklin R. Sibert as Director, Richmond Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Director, Roanoke Regional Office, School of General Studies, for one year, effective 1 July 1969.

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERAPPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------------------------

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 12:15 p.m.

WC:jb