Board of Visitors minutes (1973) February 2, 1973
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 2, 1973

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 2, 1973
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:36 p.m. in the Conference Room of Minor Hall at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., Donald E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: Visitors Edwin K. Mattern, William S. Potter, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Messrs. Neill H. Alford, III, David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, D. Alan Williams and Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell were present throughout the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of December 8, 1972, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

STATEMENT BY PRESIDENT EDGAR F. SHANNON, JR.
--------------------------------------------

The first order of business was to hear a statement from President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. who read aloud the following letter addressed to the Rector:

Mr. Joseph H. McConnell

Rector of the University

University of Virginia

Charlottesville, Virginia

Dear Mr. Rector:

This letter is intended for all of the members of the Board of Visitors of the University, but I address it to you as their chairman.

At the conclusion of the Summer Session in August, 1974, approximately eighteen months hence, I shall have completed fifteen years as President of the University of Virginia. That seems to me to be an appropriate term of service in this capacity, and indeed in the current experience of American universities it is an extended one. I write accordingly to request you to plan for me to be relieved of my duties as President at the end of August 1974.

As you know from your reading of my recent Report, I believe the state of the University to be thriving and vigorous to an unprecedented degree. The quality of the Faculty and student body is notably enhanced, and it is a daily pleasure to be associated with them as individuals. The University of Virginia has advanced conspicuously as a national center of excellence in graduate and graduate professional studies. Its academic publishing house, established just ten years ago, and numerous scholarly and scientific activities of national significance are flourishing. New buildings and facilities for arts and sciences and the professional schools have recently been completed or are now under construction. Racial integration and full coeducation are firmly established in policy and practice. The Committee on the Future of the University has completed a major study of the size and other aspects of the years immediately ahead, and the Board of Visitors has acted to establish enrollment projections and the role of the University for the remainder of the decade. By the summer of 1974 the self-study under the provisions of the Southern Association will have been completed and the incoming President will have the immediate benefit of its recommendations and those of the visiting committee.

Although some stringency may be anticipated, the University is fiscally sound and in a stronger financial position than many of its leading academic competitors for educational excellence. The General Assembly have demonstrated the pride that they properly take in the University of Virginia, and I have confidence in the provisions that they will make for the future. I shall be responsible for the next biennial budget and see it through the 1974 legislature -- working with a new governor, so that the next President can commence his duties in the first year of the biennium, with a year in which to become familiar with his duties before he has to submit a biennial budget, and a year-and-a-half before he has to appear before the committees of a biennial legislature and secure the regular University appropriation.

During the past fourteen years in an office which makes heavy and continuous demands, I have been fortunate to experience good health. It appears to me wise to relinquish the office to another while I am still in full force of physical vigor, and with unimpaired enthusiasm, and strength of mind and spirit, and to time my relinquishment of office, so that there will be no loss of momentum in the forward progress of the University.

The University has been blessed throughout my years of service with a strong and dedicated Board of Visitors, whose guidance and support have been indispensable to me in everything I have tried to do, and whose personal friendship and association I shall always cherish.

I shall ever be grateful for the opportunity and privilege of having served you and the University of Virginia. I wish to pass on my duties to another while I am still enjoying them as I do. My family are growing up. I wish to become better acquainted with them, and they need more of my daily attention than they have before. And finally at the end of fifteen exciting and gratifying years in one capacity I wish to return to another -- to my first love of teaching and scholarship -- which is a continuing tradition and practice among administrative officers of this university and one which I think is an element of its great strength.

The greatest strength of this University from the time when Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe served together as Visitors has been the stature of its Board members. The continuing high character of the Board and my affection and respect for its individual members give me complete confidence in the future of the University under my successor. You have all been generous in your many kindnesses to me and my family, and I shall greatly miss the regular association with you when my responsibilities as President are terminated at the beginning of the 1974-75 academic year.

STATEMENT BY RECTOR JOSEPH H. MCCONNELL
---------------------------------------

The Rector responded to the President's letter by reading to the Board a statement addressed to President Shannon by the Rector, as follows:

Perhaps we should pause a moment or two to reflect on the seriousness of Dr. Shannon's announcement, but I think it is quite clear to the Board -- as it is to me -- that we are confronted today with a great loss, as well as a great responsibility.

Dr. Shannon, I am sure, has read the surprise -- and the disappointment -- in our faces. On a decision of this magnitude, such a mixture of surprise and sadness was inevitable. It causes one to grope for words.

But I know, Edgar, that I speak for the Board and for the University community at large -- a community you have helped stretch to the limits of the Commonwealth -- when I say how grateful we are for the good and faithful service you have given us.

The University can be proud of you -- as we are proud of you. You have demonstrated to this Board your complete dedication to the University. It always came first -- in the good days and when it rained, as it does today, not only outside but in this room.

On behalf of the Board I want to express our deep gratitude. You have helped carry out the purpose of our founder, Thomas Jefferson, for this institution in a way that all who know us can take pride.

We have indeed become, under your guidance, a national university, not just in law or medicine, but in the full range of the liberal arts. You helped attract a faculty of the highest quality while developing a program and plant to challenge and inspire those who teach and those who learn.

You have put new and important emphasis on the University's role of service to the State, extending the influence of this institution into new areas of great but neglected need.

You have gained recognition in the councils of higher affairs of this nation in a manner that has not only brought honor to you but glory to the University.

And by the timing of your announcement today -- well in advance of the departure we regret so deeply -- you have demonstrated again the qualities of a man Virginia is proud to have as the president of its university.

The standards you have set will not make it easy for this Board in finding a successor. It will be a challenge -- but we will do our utmost to meet it. As prescribed by the Manual of the Board, I will appoint a committee at the appropriate time to work with the faculty in nominating a successor. We ask your counsel, Dr. Shannon, throughout.

Fifteen years ... it sounds so long, yet it seems so short in terms of your presidency. I am sure that this is because of the inspiration and excitement you brought to the task and which you carry to the job each day. When the days are full and life is lively, time passes quickly. So it has been here.

We will miss you. I know that I can say for all of us that we are deeply grateful for the privilege of working with you and seeing the University grow and prosper.

In the days that you will still be with us -- and in those quieter days beyond -- we wish for you and your family great happiness and the knowledge that this University will always remember you with a fond and grateful heart.

At the conclusion of the reading of the Rector's letter, the Board rose and applauded the President, following which each member shook the President's hand.

WELCOME TO SECRETARY EARL J. SHIFLET
------------------------------------

The Rector then extended a warm welcome to Secretary of Education Earl J. Shiflet, who was the guest of the Board at the meeting.

Secretary Shiflet spoke briefly to the Board. He commended President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. for his statesmanlike actions as President, and expressed regret to learn of Mr. Shannon's approaching retirement.

Secretary Shiflet also commended the Board of Visitors for outstanding service to the Commonwealth and expressed to the Board the thanks of the Governor. He expressed particular pleasure in the high level of cooperation between the University and Piedmont Virginia Community College, and was pleased to witness the presentation of a framed resolution of thanks from the Community College Board to the University of Virginia.

Mr. Shiflet compared his own position to that of the director of a symphony orchestra, noting that he strives to see the educational institutions in the State to be in harmony with each other and with the needs of the citizens of the Commonwealth.

Mr. Shiflet distributed a leaflet describing the financial profile of education in Virginia. He explained that there will be an audit of productivity in education, and that his office will attempt to define the mission of higher education in Virginia.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. James F. Bell as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $Mr. Giorgio Bellavitis as Lecturer in Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Dr. James G. Chandler as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective June 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. R. James Coote as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Miss Alice V. Cudlipp as Lecturer in Education, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Colin L. Dyer as Assistant Professor of French, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. W. Keith Hafer as Lecturer in Commerce, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. LaVahn G. Hoh as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973. Mr. Hoh served as Instructor in Drama from 1969 to 1972.Mr. J. David Hunger as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Warren E. Jamison as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jean Labatut as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Scholar-in-Residence in Architecture, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Miss Grace M. Layman as Visiting Professor of Speech and Drama, for the period February 1, 1973, through April 30, 1973.Mr. John H. Makin as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Melvin Nolan as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective January 1, 1973.Mr. John B. Peper as Associate Professor of Education, for the period November 1, 1972, through June 30, 1975, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter H. Sokel as Commonwealth Professor of German, effective September 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ernst H. Soudek as Associate Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ronald P. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Elinor G. Vaughter as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a stipend of $.Dr. Robert C. Wheeler as Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective October 1, 1972.Mr. James H. Wilkinson, III, as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Dr. Washington C. Winn, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective January 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.

ELECTION OF DR. JOSEPH LARNER AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF PHARMACOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Joseph Larner be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Pharmacology, effective February 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $38,500.

CHANGE OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF MR. JOHN L. KNAPP
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the effective date of the election of Mr. John L. Knapp as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, as approved by the Board on December 8, 1972, be changed from January 1, 1973, to January 16, 1973.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Daniel F. Albright as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Edythe J. Allen as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Ralph O. Allen as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. B. R. Ashby as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Donald W. Ball as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Lester F. Belter as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Arthur S. Bender as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1973.Mr. Michael E. Bender as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. David C. Benjamin as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Spencer C. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Edward I. Berry as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Walter L. Blankenbaker as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Charles R. Borchardt as Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Terrence A. Boring as Assistant Professor of Classics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Larry S. Bowen as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. John D. Briddell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Francis L. Brochu as Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Robert S. Brown as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Carolyn M. Brunner as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Harold J. Burbach as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John J. Callahan, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, one-half time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Robert L. Canady as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Robert M. Carey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Corinne Carr as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period September 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Shu-Kwan Chan as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Pierre F. Cintas as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Warren L. Coats, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael J. Demetsky as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Andre P. Derdeyn as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Daniel T. Devereux as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Mario di Valmarana as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Kemal H. Elbirlik as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Carl A. Erdman as Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Thomas H. Estes as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Leo J. Falk, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Justiniano B. Fernandez-Campa as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective June 1, 1973.Mr. Joseph Fletcher as Visiting Professor of Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Clifford H. Fox as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Nell B. Fuller as Assistant Professor, Medical Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Bruce M. Gansneder as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Harry L. Garnham as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Joe H. Gaskin as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Seymour E. Goodman as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. William K. Goosens as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Russell M. Grieger as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Bruce P. Hayden as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Alden D. Hinckley as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. John H. Hollingsworth as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. James E. Holloway as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Wallace H. Holthaus as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. George M. Hornberger as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. John A. Hornik as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Roy D. Hudson as Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective January 1, 1973.Mr. Kenneth C. Jacobs as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ira D. Jacobson as Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard J. Jacobson as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John B. Jensen as Assistant Professor of Portuguese, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Richard N. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Neurology and of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Frederick Y. Kazama as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective June 1, 1973.Mr. Mahlon G. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Walter F. Korte as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. N. Kenneth LaFleur as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Margaretha W. Langman as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Clinical Psychology), part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. James S. Lubalin as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles F. Maine, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Vocational Rehabilitation), for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Marlis E. Mann as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James S. McCarthy as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael L. McCartney as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Regina C. McCormack as Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Robert G. McLaughlin as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Lucila I. Mena as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Karl F. Menk as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Jon D. Mikalson as Assistant Professor of Classics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Willys M. Monroe as Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. William J. Munsie as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. John A. Musick as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective February 1, 1973.Dr. E. D. V. Nicoll as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William E. Odum as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Franklyn D. Ott as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. James S. Payne as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mrs. Carla L. Peterson as Acting Assistant Professor of English and of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John L. Pfaltz as Associate Professor of Computer Science, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Elizabeth M. Ramsey as Mamie A. Jessup Visiting Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, one-fourth time, for one year, effective January 1, 1973.Dr. Frank M. Ripberger as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pediatrics and Student Health Physician, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Julius E. Rivers as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. James B. Roberts as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Albert F. Rodewald as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John S. Rose as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. B. Winfred Ruffner, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective March 1, 1973.Mr. Roger A. Rydin as Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Zahrl G. Schoeny as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Richard C. Shrum as Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Dr. Donald Shotton as Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period February 16, 1973 through June 30, 1974.Dr. Rajindar Singh as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Craig L. Smith as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John E. Solie as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Carl P. Spirito as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Alexander E. Sproul as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William J. Starosta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. David V. Strider as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Joseph E. Strzepek as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ronald F. Swanson as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. William H. Talbot as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Arlin B. Thro as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. William F. Tompkins, III, as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Richard J. VanBrunt as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Theo van Groll as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective January 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $. Dr. Vaughan served as Assistant Professor during the spring of 1971, April 3, 1971 Docket.Mr. Gerald Wallace as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Richard A. Waswo as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Ruth B. Weeks as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Harry A. Wellons as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Patricia J. Widhalm as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. George D. Williams as Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973.Dr. Thomas E. Williams as Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. C. Lee Woods as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Paul L. Zubkoff as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Dr. Jose deOlmos, Research Associate, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. ChingSeng Fang, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Dexter S. Haven, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Albert Y. Kuo, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Lieutenant Commander Daniel T. Oliver, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Naval Science, for the period October 9, 1972, through August 31, 1974.Mr. Frank O. Perkins, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Miss Dolores M. Schroeder, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective February 16, 1973.Dr. Hubert A. Shaffer, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective August 16, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Morton C. Wilhelm, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1973.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Neill H. Borden, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to continue appointment as Visiting Professor, Advanced Management Institute, Lausanne, Switzerland.Mr. Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, for the period March 1, 1973, through August 31, 1973, without pay, to continue duties as Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisors.Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., Assistant Professor of Urology, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973, without pay, to continue research training at Columbia University.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research and writing.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR MR. CARL O. TRINDLE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Carl O. Trindle, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for two months, effective April 1, 1973, as approved by the Board on December 8, 1972, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Robert E. Cape, from Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, to Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective January 1, 1973.Dr. Sven O. E. Ebbesson, from Professor of Neurosurgery, to Professor of Neurosurgery and of Anatomy, effective December 1, 1972.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Carl A. Schnaitman, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of $, effective January 1, 1973.Mr. Herbert H. Winkler, Associate Professor of Microbiology, at an annual salary of $, effective January 1, 1973.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Karl-Achim Czemper, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective January 31, 1973, to accept a position at the Hochschule fur Bildende Kunste, Hamburg, Germany.Mr. Edwin B. Joseph, Associate Professor of Marine Science, effective December 31, 1972, to accept another position.Mr. Robert A. Smoak, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective January 31, 1973, to accept employment in industry.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Chairman, Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Lloyd A. Fallers as Chairman, Department of Anthropology, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Michael H. Prosser as Chairman, Department of Speech Communication, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Walter H. Sokel as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. David W. Weiss as Chairman, Department of Drama, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Richard M. Brandt as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Robert F. Bryan as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Helen G. Burr as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Miss Susan P. Campbell as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William R. Carriker as Chairman, Department of Special Education, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Frederick R. Cyphert as Dean, School of Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Jay Y. Gillenwater as Chairman, Department of Urology, for five years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. James E. Kinard as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Peter W. Low as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Jerry R. Moore as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John N. Moore as Director, Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. John A. Sanderson as Assistant Dean, School of Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William H. Seawell as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. William J. Serow as Assistant Director, Tayloe Murphy Institute, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Director of University Development, for the period February 16, 1973 through June 30, 1974.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Associate Dean and Director of Admissions, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1973.Mr. William H. VanHoose as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick as Associate Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1973.

BOARD MEETING SCHEDULE
----------------------

The Board approved a schedule of four meetings a school year rather than five, in order to fit the new academic calendar.

The following meeting dates were approved: January 23 and 24, 1974March 28 and 29, 1974May 16 and 17, 1974October 10 and 11, 1974

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGES IN THE NAMES OF DEPARTMENTS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced changes in the names of departments in the College of Arts and Sciences as follows:

Effective September 1, 1973, the Department of Speech and Drama will be separated to be known as:

(a) Department of Drama

(b) Department of Speech Communication

REPORT ON ACTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE INCREASE IN SALARY OF MR. EUGENE CORRIGAN
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that all members of the Executive Committee were polled by telephone on January 5-10, 1973. The following resolution was adopted by unanimous vote:

RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors acting for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Eugene F. Corrigan, Director of University Athletic Programs, shall receive an annual salary of $30,000, effective January 1, 1973.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$131,064.25

Free service to Counties and Cities

221,729.30

\------------

Total

$352,793.55

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $352,793.55, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts$131,064.25Free service to Counties and Cities221,729.30------------Total$352,793.55

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WALLERSTEIN SCHOLARSHIP FOR THE INSTITUTE OF GOVERNMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a scholarship to be known as the Wallerstein Scholarship for the Institute of Government, University of Virginia. The scholarship is to be awarded in accordance with the standing University policies governing such awards.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HAROLD I. BAUMES GRADUATE FELLOWSHIP IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a fellowship to be known as the Harold I. Baumes Graduate Fellowship in Public Administration. The fellowship is to be awarded in accordance with the standing University policies governing such awards.

RESOLUTION CONCERNING RETRANSFER OF EASTERN SHORE PROPERTY TO COMMUNITY COLLEGES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is, with the consent of the Governor first obtained, hereby authorized to join with the United States of America, through the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, in executing appropriate instruments and doing all acts necessary to convey to the Department of Community Colleges of the Commonwealth of Virginia the remainder of the property known as the Eastern Shore Branch of the University of Virginia located in Accomack County, containing approximately one-hundred nine and 76/100 (109.76) acres of land and twenty-eight (28) buildings, along with certain utility easements, such instruments as may be required to be subject to the approval of the Legal Adviser to The Rector and Visitors.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on the status of construction projects was distributed. The President announced that the new Graduate School of Business Administration Building is under construction. He reported on a ground breaking ceremony for the project which was held on February 1, 1973.

OUTLOOK FOR FISCAL FUNDING
--------------------------

The President and Vice-President Crispell advised that the outlook for Federal funding of University programs is bleak, and that cuts may affect graduate enrollments.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A list of gifts and grants was distributed. The President expressed his appreciation to Mr. Waller Barrett, who leads the list of contributors.

REPORT ON THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
----------------------------------------

The President reported that Mr. Buford had met with representatives of other institutions, and that a compromise bill had been proposed for consideration by the General Assembly. The compromise bill will provide for closed meetings of Boards of Visitors, but also provides for release of minutes within three working days of meetings.

ARCHITECT FOR SCOTT STADIUM PROJECT
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Williams and Tazewell be and it is hereby approved for the Scott Stadium project.

RESOLUTION REGARDING SEWARD FOREST
----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Vice-President Vincent Shea be and he is hereby authorized to negotiate with any prospective purchaser of the Seward Forest, either for the purchase of the entire property or the sale of standing timber and land separately.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF COMPLETION OF TERM FOR VICE-PRESIDENT D. ALAN WILLIAMS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that in June of 1973 Mr. D. Alan Williams will complete his five year term as Vice-President for Student Affairs, and that at Mr. Williams' own request he will not be reappointed, but will instead return to his career of teaching and scholarship.

CONTINGENT PLAN FOR CHANGE IN TUITION RATES
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that subject to the restitution to the University appropriation for 1973-74 of approximately $600,000, that $25.00 per student of the tuition increase already approved for the 1973-74 session be rescinded;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Comprehensive Fee be increased at the beginning of the 1973-74 session by $25.00 per student.

REPORT ON THE BAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIP FUND
--------------------------------------------

The President reported a change in awarding Bayly-Tiffany Scholarship Funds to residents of Accomack and Northampton Counties. Each student at the University who is a resident of one of these counties is eligible for a $600 Bayly-Tiffany Scholarship without regard to need. If the student meets the need criteria, he may receive an award supplemental to the basic $600 award. Bayly-Tiffany scholarships may also be awarded on the basis of need to residents of other Virginia Counties, or residents of the State of Maryland.

RESOLUTION REGARDING SENATOR JOHN C. STENNIS
--------------------------------------------

United States Senator John C. Stennis, a distinguished alumnus of the University of Virginia Law School, was shot near his home in Washington, D. C. on January 30, 1973. He was seriously injured. Senator Hugh Scott proposed the following resolution which was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we deplore the senseless assault on our distinguished alumnus Senator John C. Stennis, and wish for him an early and complete recovery from his injuries.

DENIAL OF FUNDS TO THE GAY STUDENT UNION
----------------------------------------

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, outlined the history of an appeal of an allocation of $45 to the Gay Student Union. The allocation was initially made by the Student Council by a divided vote. The allocation was upheld by the Student Activities Committee by a divided vote. The appeal was then carried to the President and the Board of Visitors.

The Student Affairs and Athletics Committee of the Board of Visitors heard the appeal on behalf of The Rector and Visitors. In compliance with agreements reached at the hearing which was held on January 17, 1973, only those members of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee who were present at the hearing participated in the preparation of the Committee's report.

Reports from the President and the Committee were distributed to the Visitors. (Copies of these reports form attachments 1 and 2 to these Minutes). Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr. summarized the reasoning of the Committee report for the Board. During the entire meeting, copies of the transcript of the hearing conducted by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee were before the Board.

Following the distribution of the reports the meeting was recessed for a sufficient time for all members to read the reports. After the reading of the reports, Board members addressed various questions to the Legal Adviser.

The Rector and Visitors, having received the report of its Student Affairs and Athletics Committee which heard for the Board on 17 January 1973 an appeal from a decision of the Student Activities Committee of the University approving an allocation of $45.00 from the Student Activity Fund to the Gay Student Union, and having received a report of the President who heard the same matter on the same date reconvened and unanimously adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request for an allocation of $45.00 by the Gay Student Union is denied for the following reasons:1. The GSU cultivates and advocates a style of sexual life. This is a private and personal matter which has no reasonable relationship to the educational purposes of the University. The Board has no power to authorize a disbursement of funds for a purpose unrelated to the educational purposes of the University. The Board also has no power to authorize the disbursement of public funds for a private and personal purpose. The activity funds are held by the Board subject to an express trust implied from the facts. This trust arises because of the mandatory nature of the fee, the educational context in which the fee is collected, the special purpose for which the fee is collected and the reasonable expectation of students who are required to pay the fee. This trust requires that the funds be used for a purpose beneficial to the University and to support organizations to which all students have de facto access. Heterosexuals have no de facto access to the GSU and its social events. The activities of the Union are not sufficiently beneficial to the University.2. The allocation is not in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the Board in 1970. The words "social entertainment" as used in the guidelines must be interpreted in context. When interpreted in context, the words are read to exclude an organization such as GSU whose activities are substantially social as well as to exclude payment for social events of an incidental nature by organizations whose activities are not substantially social. This has been the settled policy of the Board and must necessarily be its policy because of restrictions upon its powers to disburse the funds.The Constitution of GSU and its statement of purposes are sufficiently broad to include engaging in propaganda and political activity to change legislation. No funds should be granted to an organization with a constitution and statement of purpose of this scope unless:a. The constitution expressly limits the organization to one of the exempt purposes stated in IRC ยง 501(c)(3) andb. The constitution specifically excludes as purposes of the organization engagement in propaganda and efforts to influence legislation.An exception should be made for "public interest" organizations so far as efforts to influence legislation are concerned and to its development or dissemination of information based on nonpartisan analysis, study or research.3. An organization with a constitution sufficiently restricted that it would not reasonably embrace propaganda and efforts to influence legislation need not include the special restrictions set forth prior to an allocation of funds.4. The practice of designating special uses of funds allocated to organizations may involve an unconstitutional interference with the freedom of speech or of assembly of members of the organization and should cease.5. The Student Activities Committee is directed at its earliest convenience to reexamine allocations of funds during the 1972-73 session and hereafter in accordance with the decision of the Board in this case and to halt allocations to all organizations not meeting the requirements of the 1970 guidelines as here interpreted.6. The Rector and Visitors adopts the Report of its Student Affairs and Athletics Committee as a detailed statement of the reasoning supporting this Resolution.Mr. Santarelli expressed the gratitude of the Board to Mr. Neill Alford, Jr., the Legal Adviser, for his careful work on the matter.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------

The Rector reported that the President and the Rector have agreed to have an informal meeting every four to six weeks so that the President may bring matters of concern to the attention of the Rector.

The Rector announced that he would appoint a committee of the Board for the selection of the President in the near future.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, acting for Chairman W. Wright Harrison, advised the Board that the work of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee was very heavy, and that it has been necessary for the Committee to meet on special occasions with some frequency. He urged that serious consideration be given to forming two committees - one to deal with student affairs, and one for athletics.

Mr. Lewis reported that the Student Council representatives who met with the Committee brought an expert witness on traffic matters to the meeting. He voiced his opposition to inviting witnesses to the Committee meetings, since the President and Vice-President of Student Council have been designated to bring student concerns to the Committee.

Mr. Lewis reported that the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee had a meeting on January 3, 1973 with the Board of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, and that the President made an excellent statement at the meeting indicating the President's support of athletic programs.

The Acting Chairman recognized Vice-President D. Alan Williams, who reported on recent NCAA actions, particularly legislation restricting the number of athletic grants-in-aid which an institution may award.

Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that the University has learned from the Highway Department that the Board will be approached at a future date about land from the Blandy Experimental Farm for the widening of Route 50.

Mr. William Zimmer, acting for Chairman William S. Potter, advised that the Finance Committee had approved a loan for the purchase of buses for the University's transit system.

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported on the need for library construction. He urged that $100,000 from private sources be raised so that planning may begin at once, then we must seek $4.5 million for construction, possibly in two phases. In addition, he urged raising funds from private sources for a rare book library. The necessity for remodeling of Clark Hall was also discussed. The Rector expressed the gratitude of the Board to Mr. Barrett for his sustained effort to bring the University's libraries to a high level of excellence.

Dr. Hartwell Harrison, Chairman of the Health Sciences Committee, reported that planning for the Medical Library is going forward. He advised that further study of the proposal to purchase the Towers Hospital structure will be required. He advised the Board that medical programs at the University will be adversely affected by the federal budget cuts.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Thomas E. Morgan, Jr., as Lecturer in Continuing Education, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Thomas E. Morgan, Jr., as Assistant Director for Administration, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for the period January 1, 1973, through June 30, 1973.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:22 p.m.

RCB:jb