Board of Visitors minutes (1974) May 17, 1974
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 17, 1974

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 17, 1974
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:15 p.m., in May 17, 1974, in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, W. Wright Harrison, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Hugh Scott, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: Visitor Donald E. Santarelli. Messrs. Frank L. Hereford, Jr., Neill H. Alford, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Ernest H. Ern, and Kenneth R. Crispell were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 29, 1974, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in May 1975. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, W. Wright Harrison, and William L. Zimmer, III.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Sciences CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1974-1975. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Robert P. BufordMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.Mr. William L. Zimmer, III Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMrs. Linwood HoltonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. George C. Palmer, IIMr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. William L. Zimmer, III Health Sciences CommitteeDr. DuPont Guerry, III, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. Edwin K. MatternMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.Mr. George C. Palmer, IISenator Hugh Scott Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. William E. LeggettMr. Edwin K. Mattern Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Waller Barrett, ChairmanDr. DuPont Guerry, IIIMrs. Linwood HoltonMr. William E. LeggettMr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1975
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1975 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved:January 9 and 10, 1975March 13 and 14, 1975May 29 and 30, 1975October 2 and 3, 1975

ELECTION OF MR. GEORGE G. GRATTAN, IV, AS LEGAL ADVISER
-------------------------------------------------------

Section 4.61 of the 1966 Manual provides that on the nomination of the President, the Board shall elect a Legal Adviser of the University to serve at its pleasure. Upon the nomination of the President, Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, was unanimously elected the Legal Adviser of the University.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MR. FRANCIS L. BERKELEY, JR.
----------------------------------------------------

Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., served the Board of Visitors as its Secretary from 1954 to 1958, as the Secretary to the Presidential Search Committee in 1959, and as its Assistant Secretary from 1959 to 1974. He will retire from service to the University on August 31, 1974.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: WHEREAS Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., has served the Board of Visitors with distinction and dedication as its Assistant Secretary since 1959, and;WHEREAS his wisdom and skill have been deeply appreciated by the Board over this fifteen year period;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the sincere thanks of the Rector and the Board of Visitors go to Mr. Berkeley, along with best wishes for much happiness in the years ahead.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MR. NEILL H. ALFORD, JR.
------------------------------------------------

After serving as Legal Adviser of the University for two years, Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., has resigned, effective June 30, 1974, to become Dean of the School of Law at the University of Georgia. The following resolution was unanimously adopted: WHEREAS Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., has served the University of Virginia with distinction and dedication as the Legal Adviser of the University since 1972, and;WHEREAS his guidance and wise counsel have been greatly valued by the Board,THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the sincere thanks of the Rector and the Board of Visitors go to Mr. Alford, along with best wishes for his continued success and happiness as he assumes the Deanship of the School of Law at the University of Georgia.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Thomas Aceto, Jr., as Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Roy L. Brown, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Robert J. Brugger as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Peter F. Coogan as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. James M. Cox as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Josue Cruz, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Randall T. Curnow as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Karen L. Davis as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Raymond D. Dueser as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Norman Familant as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Raymond C. Fort, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. J. Richard Frazier as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective January 1, 1974.Mr. Walter F. Frese as Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Elizabeth A. Gardiner as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Wayne A. Geib as Associate Professor of Pathology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Lieutenant James R. Grant, III, as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, as Lecturer in Law, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Brian Greenberg as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Patricia R. Haas as Instructor in German, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. James R. Haltiner as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year. Mr. Haltiner served as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce for the 1973-74 academic session.Mr. Lester A. Hoel as Janet Scott Hamilton and John Downman Hamilton Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Rachael Jacoff as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. William R. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Warren C. Jones as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. John Kattwinkel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 1, 1974.Mr. Lawrence D. Kavanagh, Jr., as Visiting Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1974.Lieutenant Charles F. Klemstine as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Susan G. Lazar as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Nina Magier as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective March 15, 1974.Dr. Cyrus Makoui as Assistant Professor of Pathology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Everett J. Mann as Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Beverly A. Marcum as Instructor in Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Robert R. Marisa as Instructor in French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Eileen M. McHugh as Instructor in French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Edward J. McShane as Scholar-in-Residence, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. P. Keith F. Moxey as Assistant Professor of Art History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Natalie K. Moyle as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Barbara G. Murphy as Instructor, Law Library, for the period August 16, 1974, through June 15, 1975.Mr. Bruce W. Nelson as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Linda Norris as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1974.Mr. Jan L. Perkowski as Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Bill K. Richardson as Assistant Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Lloyd T. Ricks as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Crandall A. Shifflett as Instructor in History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. David G. Smith as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Harold W. Stevenson as Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. K. Keller Van Slyke as Assistant Professor of Surgery and of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective August 16, 1974.Captain Maurice G. White as Professor of Naval Science, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Stephen Worchel as Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1974.

ELECTION OF MR. EDGAR F. SHANNON, JR., AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of English, effective September 1, 1974.

ELECTION OF MR. ANTHONY D. WOOZLEY AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Anthony D. Woozley be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1974.

ELECTION OF DR. WILLIAM R. SANDUSKY AS C. BRUCE MORTON, II, PROFESSOR OF SURGERY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. William R. Sandusky be and he is hereby elected C. Bruce Morton, II, Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1974.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. COLIN L. DYER
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Colin L. Dyer, as approved by the Board at its meeting on February 2, 1973, and corrected at its meeting on October 26, 1973, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Colin L. Dyer as Visiting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. JOE TOM EASLEY
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Joe Tom Easley, as approved by the Board on March 29, 1974, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Joe Tom Easley as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. LARRY M. AYERS
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Larry M. Ayers as Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1974, as approved by the Board on March 29, 1974, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. M. Bruce Abrahamse as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Phillip M. Allen as Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. E. Gifford Ammermann as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen as Associate Professor of Pharmacology and of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. George W. Black as Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Warren C. Boeschenstein as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Clive Bradbeer as Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Bruce C. Busching as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Robert M. Chamberlain as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Zita D. Dabars as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III, as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. John L. Dupuy as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. David B. Gaspar as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Larry W. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Joseph E. Goldberg as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Peggy E. Gordon as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology with the proviso that the Chairman of the Department of Biology will determine annually whether he shall serve on a full-time or part-time basis for each session.Dr. Stuart S. Howards as Associate Professor of Urology, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John A. James as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Hui-Hsiung Kuo as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Richard H. Lear as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Laurence S. Moss as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Nicholas J. Pappas as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology and of French, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Alan Saleski as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Catherine H. C. Seaman as Associate Professor of Nursing, one-fourth time, for the period September 1, 1974 through June 30, 1975.Miss Marylee C. Sturgis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Rodney L. Taylor as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Carol K. Wells as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Patricia J. Widhalm as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Stephen T. Yandle as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Sharon O. Young as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. John M. Zeigler as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Suresh K. Agarwal, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Carlos R. Ayers, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Norman H. Bass, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Frederic A. Berry, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Robert E. Berry, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Walter L. Blankenbaker, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Barbara Brodie, Associate Professor, to Professor of Nursing, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Anne C. Brower, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective April 1, 1974.Dr. John Buckman, Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. John S. DeVerter, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Cosmo A. DiFazio, Associate Professor, to Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Charles L. Fry, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Kenneth E. Greer, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. George R. Hanna, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Laura S. Huang, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John Marshall, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Juan de D. Martinez-Galindo, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurosurgery, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Lockhart B. McGuire, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Sara J. McVicker, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. John V. Merriner, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Edward E. Oliphant, Research Associate, to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss L. Claire Parsons, Associate Professor, to Professor of Nursing, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Michael L. Perna, Instructor, to Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Mary E. Reres, Associate Professor, to Professor of Nursing, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Jorge Roman, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Catherine M. Russell, Associate Professor, to Professor of Clinical Pathology, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. Merle A. Sande, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Marion R. Sargent, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Yvonne L. Wagner, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Thomas C. Westfall, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Alberta Widman, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Patricia B. Woodard, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE PROMOTION OF MR. EDGAR K. BROWNING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the promotion of Mr. Edgar K. Browning, as approved by the Board on March 29, 1974, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Edgar K. Browning, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1974.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Houston A. Baker, Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to head Afro-American Program at the University of Pennsylvania.Miss Ruth E. Brong, Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period February 1, 1974, through August 31, 1975, without pay, to recover from surgery.Mr. Douglas T. Day, III, Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, without pay, to work on his critical biography of Garcia Lorca.Mr. John B. Jensen, Assistant Professor of Portuguese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to accept an award from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. William W. Kerrigan, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. Ravindra S. Khare, Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as an Associate at the Institute of Advanced Studies, Princeton University.Mr. Peter W. Low, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Pennsylvania.Miss Marlis E. Mann, Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, for postdoctoral studies at the Bing Nursery School, Stanford University.Mr. Donald L. Martin, Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to accept a Research Fellowship from Hoover Institution, Stanford University.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to continue economic research on inflation.Mr. Joseph C. Miller, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. John N. Moore, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as Chairman of the United States National Securities Council Inter-Agency Task Force on the Law of the Sea.Mr. Leonard L. Scott, Jr., Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to visit the University of Michigan.Dr. Daniel L. Seale, Associate Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1974, without pay, to evaluate his reactions to private practice.Mr. Richard E. Speidel, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor in Vienna, Austria.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Charles E. Hamner, from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, part-time, effective July 1, 1974, at no salary from the University.Dr. Jules I. Levine, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, to Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Ingrid H. Soudek, from Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Rodney L. Taylor, from Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The President announced the following retirements: Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., University Archivist, effective August 31, 1974. Mr. Berkeley has been a member of the staff since 1938.Mr. Roger P. Bristol, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1974. Mr. Bristol has been a member of the staff since 1955.Mr. Ralph W. Cherry, Curry Memorial Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1974. Mr. Cherry has been a member of the faculty since 1956.Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1974. Dr. Hart has been a member of the faculty since 1928.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Alumni Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1974. Mr. McShane has been a member of the faculty since 1935.Dr. John M. Nokes, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1974. Dr. Nokes has been a member of the faculty since 1931.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Professor, General Faculty.Mr. Ralph W. Cherry, Curry Memorial Professor of Education.Dr. Andrew D. Hart, Professor of Internal Medicine.Mr. Edward J. McShane, Alumni Professor of Mathematics.Dr. John M. Nokes, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The President announced the following resignations: Mr. Neill H. Alford, Jr., Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective June 30, 1974, to accept appointment as Joseph Henry Lumpkin Professor of Law and Dean of the University of Georgia Law School.Mr. Josef J. Barton, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at Northwestern University.Miss Linda R. Berner, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective August 31, 1974, to join the Army Nurse Corps for a two year tour of duty.Mr. Larry S. Bowen, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at Southeastern Louisiana University.Mr. Robert D. Cross, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective June 30, 1974, to assume full-time duties as Professor of History.Mr. Larry S. Gibson, Assistant Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at the University of Maryland Law School.Dr. Charles E. Hamner, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1974, to accept a position with the A. H. Robins Company.Mr. Bruce W. Mattox, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective January 31, 1974, to accept other employment.Mr. Arnold S. Rampersad, Assistant Professor of English, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at Stanford University.Mrs. Ewa M. Thompson, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, effective May 31, 1974, to accept a position at Rice University.Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 30, 1974, to enter private practice.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Union Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, as Chairman of the Department of Chemical Engineering, to devote full time to teaching and research.

WITHDRAWAL OF RESIGNATION OF MISS RUTH E. BRONG
-----------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Miss Ruth E. Brong, which appeared in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors on March 29, 1974, be and it is hereby withdrawn.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MR. D. BROCK HORNBY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the resignation of Mr. D. Brock Hornby, Associate Professor of Law, has been changed from May 31, 1974, to August 31, 1974, as announced to the Board at its meeting on March 29, 1974.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The President announced the following appointments: Miss Ruth K. Angress as Chairman, Department of German, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Associate Dean of the School of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Avery Catlin as Executive Vice-President, for five years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd as Acting Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective July 1, 1974, through August 31, 1974.Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, as Special Counsel to the President, effective July 1, 1974Mr. T. Graham Hereford as Chairman, Division of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Lester A. Hoel as Chairman, Department of Civil Engineering, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. A. E. Dick Howard as Director, The Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly as Chairman, Department of Physics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Dr. Jules I. Levine as Assistant Dean, Allied Health Programs, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Curtis W. McIntyre as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Richard A. Merrill as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Bruce W. Nelson as Dean and Assistant Provost for Continuing Education, for five years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Lloyd T. Ricks as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Ernest A. Scatton as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Milos Velimirovic as Chairman of the Department of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The President announced the following re-appointments: Miss Virginia L. Algyre as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Carol L. Andrews as Assistant Director, Intramurals, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. James W. Barco as Counsellor to the President for Special Development, for the period July 1, 1974, through December 31, 1975.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. James L. Camp, III, as Director, Department of Student Health, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Susan P. Campbell as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. W. Walker Cowen as Director, University Press of Virginia, for the period November 1, 1974, through June 30, 1979.Mr. Paul C. Gaertner, Jr., as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. William B. Guilford as Assistant Registrar, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. C. Donald Hammond as Consultant to the Counseling Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant to the President, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Barbara A. Kelly as Assistant to the Director of Intramurals, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John C. Lafley as Director, Intramurals, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Ralph D. Pinto as Associate Legal Adviser, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. James W. Ramsey, Jr., as Assistant Director, Financial Aid to Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. George H. Reese as Chairman, Department of Humanistic Sources, for four years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson as Director, Career Planning and Placement, for three years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Director of University Development, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John L. Sullivan as Assistant Provost, for two years, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Associate Dean and Director' of Admissions, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. James O. West as Assistant to the Director of the University Athletic Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Charles E. Wheeler as Assistant Director, Financial Aid to Students, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., as Director, Center for Advanced Studies, for six years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. W. Dexter Whitehead, Jr., as Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective September 1, 1974.Miss Sharon O. Young as Counselor, Student Counseling Center, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was unanimously adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the thanks and appreciation of the Board be expressed to the students, faculty, and staff of Clinch Valley College for the warm hospitality shown to the Board's special committee that visited the College on April 10 and 11, 1974, andBE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Clinch Valley College be congratulated for providing 20 years of educational opportunity for its students, and for its remarkable service to the Commonwealth as a four year institution of higher education.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BARNES PROFESSORSHIP IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established in the School of Medicine a chair to be known as the Helen B. and Donald C. Barnes Professorship in Medicine.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHARLES HENDERSON PROFESSORSHIP OF ENGINEERING
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there be established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a chair to be known as the Charles Henderson Professorship of Engineering.

APPROVAL OF THE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
------------------------------------

The President explained that a Statement of Purpose appears in each issue of the University Record, and that the Faculty Senate of the University of Virginia had proposed a revision of the Statement of Purpose which he recommended to the Board of Visitors.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following Statement of Purpose be and it is hereby approved:Statement of PurposeA university is a community of scholars having as its central purpose the enrichment of the human mind by stimulating and sustaining a spirit of free inquiry directed to an understanding of the nature of the universe and man's role in it. This central purpose is served by activities designed:(a) To quicken, discipline and enlarge the intellectual and creative capacities, as well as the aesthetic awareness, of the members of the university; and(b) To record, preserve, and disseminate the results of intellectual inquiry and creative endeavor.The University of Virginia seeks to achieve this central purpose through the pursuit of the following specific goals:1. To make a living reality in the consciousness and the daily lives of the students and faculty the special historic commitment of this University to the character of its members, symbolized in the invitation carved upon its portals to "Enter by this gateway and seek the way of honor, the light of truth, the will to work for men."2. To offer opportunities to able undergraduates from all walks of life for instruction of the highest quality leading to baccalaureate degrees in the arts and sciences, not merely by transmitting established skills and knowledge, but by developing their ability to think, to respond to ideas, and to test hypotheses and interpret human experience anew.3. To provide for students and faculty an atmosphere conducive to fellowship and understanding and to their constructive participation in the affairs of the University and of the community at large.4. To educate men and women for the professions in:(a) Undergraduate schools and programs leading to degrees in Architecture Architectural History, City Planning, Commerce, Education, Engineering and Applied Science, Landscape Architecture, and Nursing; and(b) Graduate schools and graduate professional programs leading to advanced degrees in Accounting, Arts and Sciences, Architecture, Architectural History, Business Administration, City Planning, Education, Engineering and Applied Science, Landscape Architecture, Law, Medicine, and Nursing.5. To perform graduate instruction, study, and research directed to the advancement of knowledge, and to make discoveries on the frontiers of knowledge available to students, scholars, and the general public through all appropriate means.6. To offer to the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation the various kinds of public service which are consonant with the central purpose of the University.7. To maintain a constant striving for academic excellence by seeking the most gifted faculty and students and by preserving the national character of the University.8. To provide programs of continuing education to the Commonwealth and the nation.9. To cooperate with and assist other colleges, educational institutions, and agencies, especially in the Commonwealth of Virginia, by making available to them the facilities of the University and the experience and counsel of its members so as to assure the greatest possible contribution to education in the Commonwealth, and beyond its borders.10. To establish appropriate new programs, schools, and degrees, and to undertake such advanced and special research as the educational requirements of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the nation may indicate.11. To serve as the intellectual and cultural center of the Commonwealth of Virginia, especially through special programs, lectures, library services, performances in the arts, and radio and television broadcasts.

APPROVAL OF THE 1974-75 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-----------------------------------------

On the recommendation of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1974-75 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved subject to the proviso that the Budget of the School of Medicine is approved with the understanding that the reserves of the clinical department will be used, if necessary, to meet budgeted expenditures.

APPROVAL OF THE 1974-75 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
--------------------------------------------------

On the recommendation of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1974-75 University Hospital Budget as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1974-75 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION, AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On the recommendation of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1974-75 Budgets for Clinch Valley College, the School of Continuing Education, and the Public Service Bureaus, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and they are hereby approved.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on December 8, 1962.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that he expects the new Law School Building to open in September of 1974, and he expressed hope that the housing facilities on Lambeth Field will be ready for occupancy by the opening of the fall semester of 1974. He reported that the Observatory Dining Facility is about five months behind schedule. The work on the Rotunda restoration is proceeding on schedule.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported that a report on faculty compensation in AAU institutions for 1973-1974 reveals that total compensation for faculty continues to rank among the top 20 institutions, however the President warned that special efforts will be necessary to maintain this position.

INCREASE IN COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------------------

Transportation Fee

$12.00

Newcomb Hall Program Fee

5.00

\----------

Total

$17.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the comprehensive fee be and it is hereby increased as follows:Transportation Fee$12.00Newcomb Hall Program Fee5.00----------Total$17.00

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CONVEYANCE OF LAND ALONG ROUTE 29 TO THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the conveyance of approximately two and three-fourths acres of land to the State Highway Department required by it for widening the Route 29 Bypass and for the Route 29 Bypass interchange, be and it is hereby approved.

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the daily rates for rooms in the Hospital be and they are hereby increased $5.00, effective July 1, 1974.

INCREASE IN TUITION IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
---------------------------------------------

Virginians

Out of State

Current 1973-74

Proposed 1974-75

Current 1973-74

Proposed 1974-75

School of Medicine

$900

$1,000

$2,100

$2,300

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following tuition charges, to become effective for the 1974-1975 session, shall supersede all previous schedules, and they are hereby approved:VirginiansOut of StateCurrent 1973-74Proposed 1974-75Current 1973-74Proposed 1974-75School of Medicine$900$1,000$2,100$2,300

STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT WITH RESPECT TO FUTURE USE OF THE ROTUNDA
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised the Board that he had, upon the direction of the Board, made commitments in good faith for the functional use of the restored Rotunda to provide for the President's Office and the Board of Visitors. He pointed out that the restored structure will offer adequate space for many additional uses yet to be determined.

Referring to a full statement on these commitments which he had made earlier in the day to the Board's Buildings and Grounds Committee, President Shannon indicated his regard for the importance of the Rotunda project and observed that he had devoted a great amount of time and effort over his fifteen years as President to accomplish the restoration. A Summary Chronology of the planning for the restoration and commitments of the oval rooms on the main floor of the Rotunda for the use of the Board and the President is provided as an attachment to these Minutes.

The President noted his belief that the University has good faith commitments for the use of the Rotunda by the President's Office and the Board of Visitors to private donors, particularly the Langhorne Trust, the Garden Club of Virginia, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Virginia State Art Commission, the Virginia Division of Engineering and Buildings, the State Legislature, the Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission, and the public. He expressed the hope that the Board and the President will at least make an initial use of the rooms in accordance with the long-time plans and commitments.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$ 125,498.41

Free service to Counties and Cities

310,250.15

\------------

Total

$ 435,748.56

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $435,748.56, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts$ 125,498.41Free service to Counties and Cities310,250.15------------Total$ 435,748.56

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE MEETING OF THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION AT THE UNIVERSITY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the State Council of Higher Education will meet at the University on June 4, 1974. Board members, deans, and administrative officers will meet with the Council in its morning session. The President was assured by a show of hands that the Board will be well represented at the meeting.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts and grants. He expressed the sincere appreciation of the University to those who contributed.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO THE DESCENDANTS OF MR. FREDERIC WILLIAM SCOTT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the sincere appreciation of the Board be expressed to the descendants of Mr. Frederic William Scott for their generous pledge of $360,000 for the restoration and repair of Scott Stadium.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO THE ANONYMOUS DONOR OF FUNDS FOR ARTIFICIAL GRASS AT SCOTT STADIUM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that warm appreciation of the Board be expressed to the generous anonymous donor who provided funds for the installation of artificial grass at Scott Stadium.

STATEMENT OF THANKS TO THE PRESIDENT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------------------------------------

The Rector observed that this meeting was the last regular meeting of the Board during the presidency of Mr. Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr. The Rector pointed out that the University has taken great strides under the leadership of Mr. Shannon, and that we can all take justifiable pride in its present state of excellence. In thanking the President for his dedicated leadership, he expressed confidence that the University will continue its role of leadership in the state and nation in the years ahead.

STATEMENT OF THANKS TO THE BOARD BY THE PRESIDENT
-------------------------------------------------

President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., expressed sincere thanks to the Board of Visitors for its loyal support and dedication over his fifteen years as President of the University. He expressed his gratitude that he was able to serve with this outstanding Board in "this great effort".

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William B. Hartley as Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Helen M. Lewis, Associate Professor, to Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Charles W. Lewis, Associate Professor of Speech and Drama, to Professor of Speech and Theatre, effective September 1, 1974.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. William B. Hartley as Chairman, Department of Business and Public Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.

INCREASE IN THE STUDENT FEE AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Student Fee at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby increased from $15.00 per semester to $25.00 per semester, effective August 26, 1974.

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Paul B. Beebee as Coordinator, Independent Study Department, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Director of Business and Industry Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Wendell Lewis as Assistant Dean for Instruction, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Maurice S. Matthews, Jr., as Director of Research and Statistical Analysis, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Director, Urban Affairs and Community Service, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974Mr. Robert J. Gwinn as Associate Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. David A. Brewster as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter R. Henriques as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1974.Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. William G. Boyer as Assistant Director for Instruction and Program Development, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Everett F. Lang as Assistant Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. William F. Lanier as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Thomas E. Morgan, Jr., as Assistant Director for Administration, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Director of Admissions and Counseling, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mrs. Madelaine Aerni as Assistant to the Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Charles E. Smith as Director, University of Virginia's Program, F.B.I. National Academy, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENTS
----------------------------------------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. William A. Harris as Program Director of Business and Industry, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. James A. Mundy, IV, as Assistant Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.

On motion the meeting adjourned at 2:42 p.m.

RCB:ls

ATTACHMENT I UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT ROTUNDA CHRONOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1826-1895

Dome Room, occupying 2/3 of cubic space, used as library-museum-ceremonial room. 6 oval rooms on lower floors were the administrative center of the University: Board of Visitors, Offices of Chairman and other officers. Other academic uses. Burned in 1895.

1895-1904

Dome Room enlarged as bookstack to occupy 3/4 of building. 2 large oval rooms (49' X 28') and 2 small oval rooms (37' X 16') eliminated. Title of "Chairman" changed to "President," office moved to Pavilion IV, thence in 1947 to Pavilion VIII.

1938-1939

Library moved to Alderman Building. Exterior of Rotunda restored (P.W.A. grant and General Assembly appropriation). Restoration and reconversion of interior deferred. World War II and post-war expansion caused further postponement.

1953-1964

Garden Club of Va., University, and private donors spend approximately $300,000 on restoration of pavilions, gardens, & crosswalks, looking toward ultimate restoration of Rotunda's interior form and functions.

1955 Feb. 11

Va. State Art Commission hears Board of Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds' proposal for restoration of Rotunda's main floor and 4 oval rooms for use by Board and President. Approves, provided there are "no considerable compromises."

1955 Feb. 12

Committee reports to Board. Minutes (Vol. XI, p. 395): The Chairman described a conversation with Fiske Kimball, leading authority on Jefferson's architecture and the neo-classic revival. Quotes Kimball as saying that Rotunda was Jefferson's "last great architectural monument . . . the functional idea of making the Rotunda the administrative center of the University was strictly in accord with Jefferson's conception of academic architecture."

March

F. D. Nichols' illustrated article on Rotunda in Alumni News: "oval rooms on main floor . . . could be used by the Board of Visitors and the Administration." Alumni response favorable.

Dec. 17

Board of Visitors minutes (Vol. XI, p. 438). President authorized to construct model of Rotunda to show original oval rooms and main floor.

1957 June 7

Board of Visitors minutes (Vol. XII, pp. 42-3). B. & G. Committee presents Mr. Whitehurst's Rotunda model. Board votes approval of tentative plans "conditioned only upon the necessity of procuring funds for the work from private sources." Committee authorized to seek funds from foundations.

1957

National Trust for Historic Preservation lists Rotunda in its Survey of Historic Buildings.

1963-1972

Several hundred gifts of funds received for restoration, largest from several members of the Scott family.

1963-1974

Annual Rotunda Ball inaugurated by student groups. Excerpt from printed program: "The restoration of the Rotunda's interior to Mr. Jefferson's original plan would provide three oval rooms on the first floor for the offices of the Board of Visitors and the President . . . would make the Rotunda once again what he intended it should be -- the administrative and social center of the University."

1964

General Assembly appropriates $55,000 to replace Rotunda roof.

1965 July 28

Architectural Advisory Committee (T. K. Fitz Patrick, chairman) recommends Ballou & Justice as planning architects. Approved by Board of Visitors' Executive Committee.

Sept. 25

President appoints a building committee (Rotunda Restoration Committee) to guide planning.

Nov. 9

Restoration Committee's first meeting (9 members present). Agree unanimously upon general plan, as outlined by chairman and Mr. Nichols, to plan restored dome room as visitor center for exhibits, receptions, meetings, etc., main floor rooms for use of President and Board.

Dec. 20

Secretary of Interior designates Rotunda as one of 4 National Historic Landmarks in Virginia for protection under National Park Service regulations.

1966 Jan. 7

President signs agreement with N.P.S. for preservation of Rotunda as National Historic Landmark.

Feb. 24

Director of Budget requested to ask Appropriations Committee to change 1964 allowance of $55,000 for new roof to planning funds for restoration.

April 2

Board of Visitors orders employment of Ballou & Justice as restoration architects. Private funds to be sought by President and committee.

1966 April 10

Illustrated article by Prof. Nichols in Richmond Times-Dispatch states that main floor oval rooms will be used by President and Board as offices.

April 13

Rotunda ceremony for delivery of plaque as National Historic Landmark. Elbert Cox of National Park Service emphasizes University's commitment to restore functions as well as form to Rotunda.

June 20

Restoration Committee minutes: "President's Office and Board of Visitors room are to occupy the larger oval rooms on main floor." Planning Office to submit Feasibility Report to State Budget Director.

July

Project Criteria submitted to Budget Director, providing in detail for use of large oval rooms on main floor by President and Board, small oval room (37' X 16') by Secretary of Board.

Sept. 16

University's "Program" for Rotunda submitted to Art Commission. President's letter commits University to restoration of "both function and design to central building which now houses only portions of scattered central administration." Art Commission approves "restoration of the building and adaptation for current uses."

Oct. 11

Governor grants authority (CO-1 form) to prepare capital outlay plans for interior restoration to "provide meeting rooms for the Board of Visitors, administrative space for the President, and a large dome room for special meetings ...exhibits and memorials."

Oct. 18

Restoration Committee minutes. Unusual degree of support by Art Commission acknowledged. Use of rooms by President and Board found to be feasible.

1966 Oct.-Nov.

Student Society of the Purple Shadows begins widespread distribution of pamphlet supporting and soliciting funds for Professor Nichols' interior restoration plans.

1966

Report and "Program" submitted to Budget Director. Calls for President's offices and Board of Visitors on main floor, Dome Room as visitor center, restoration of Pavilion VIII as faculty residence.

1968 April 3

Inquiry from National Park Service requesting assurance that rumored plans for restoration and use are in accord with 1966 agreement.

1969 May 8

Architects' Project Report: The Rotunda "exists solely as a symbol of its past glory and usefulness, and houses no function commensurate with the dignity of its design or the eminence of its concept." Sets forth general plan for Rotunda to house the President's Office, Board of Visitors' meeting room, and assembly hall above.

May 19

Officers of Langhorne Trust meet with Restoration Committee and architects for review of plans. Pledge dollar-for-dollar matching funds.

May 28

Pledge confirmed by letter up to $750,000.

1970 Oct. 9

Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission accepts Rotunda for listing in Virginia Landmarks Register. Nominates it for National Register of Historic Places.

1971 April 2

Virginia Division of Engineering and Buildings authorizes submission of drawings and specifications to Art Commission.

May 1

Favorable review by Art Commission.

1972 March 27

Application for $1,088,250 submitted to Dept. of Housing and Urban Development. President pledges that Rotunda "will be maintained through the University's annual budgets as a central administrative building of the University. ... The restoration will once again provide for central administrative functions, for board meetings ... restoration of reconstructed oval rooms to administrative and committee functions."

April 6-7

Architects present completed preliminary plans to Buildings and Grounds Committee. Taylor and Parrish's cost estimates of $2,176,500 approved. Board approves application to HUD for half of needed sum.

April 14

Bicentennial Committee recommends Rotunda restoration as No. 1 priority for 1976.

April 28

HUD grant of $1,088,250 and agreement signed at Monticello in presence of state, local, and national officials. President outlines plans for restoration (promising the restoration of "every function ... except the library function") in addresses at Monticello and at subsequent luncheon in Rotunda, attended by public officials and representatives of Garden Club of Va., Langhorne Trust, Rotunda Ball Committee, student leaders, Alumni, Visitors and formor Rectors, Bicentennial Commission, prominent private donors to restoration, General Assembly members, and many others.

May 4

Cavalier Daily news story and editorial refer to use of Rotunda for administrative offices. One of many such references before and after in Charlottesville newspapers.

1972 May 5

Virginia Law Weekly editorial hails restoration, mentioning use of "main floor oval rooms for a much needed presidential office suite."

May 5

Art Commission reviews and approves preliminary plans. Requests review of working drawings and specifications when completed.

May 16

National Park Service sends representative to the review of plans by Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission. Favorable action.

May-June

State newspapers carry lengthy illustrated articles on Rotunda's restoration and future uses. Editorials in Roanoke World-News, Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, and other papers carry enthusiastic editorials referring specifically to use of main floor oval rooms for President's offices and Board of Visitors meetings.

June 2

Board of Visitors adopts resolution thanking the Trustees of the Langhorne Trust, and assuring them that the University will "proceed with this long-planned restoration of design and function to its focal building."

June 12

Mrs. Edward C. Anderson gives $5,000 to restoration, supplementing earlier gifts from sister and brother, Mrs. William Reed and Mr. Frederic Scott.

June 20

Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission issues final letter of approval: "By good fortune the restoration of the original interior will result in making the Rotunda a more functional building. ... The East Oval Room appropriately assigned to the Board of Visitors. The West Oval Room, the North Oval Room, and approximately one-half of the hourglass-shaped hall is to be given over to the use of the President's Office."

1972 June 28

Julian P. Boyd's letter: "This is indeed a splendid contribution to the Bicentennial. ..." The plan for administrative use is "in keeping with Jefferson's aim to combine the useful and the beautiful."

June

Preservation News (organ of National Trust for Historic Preservation) announces restoration in full page illustrated editorial by its senior historian: "The restoration plan calls for reestablishing the main floor oval rooms and hallway for use by the President of the University and the Board of Visitors."

July-Aug.

Alumni News feature and cover article on the restoration: "The rooms on the main floor will be reconstructed for administration, board meetings ... the Rotunda once again will be the functional as well as the visual center of the University." 7,500 reprints widely distributed to faculty, students, alumni, and others.

Aug. 4

Art Commission reviews working drawings and specifications with President and architects. Gives approval.

October

President's Report to Board of Visitors. Sent to faculty, members of Alumni Association, student leaders. States on pages 28 and 46 that President's Office will be moved to oval rooms on main floor.

Nov. 20

Chattanooga Times editorial: "When completed, the Rotunda will once again be the hub of administrative direction with offices for the President. ..."

Dec. 14

President submits CO-2 form requesting inclusion of Rotunda in 1973 Supplemental Appropriations Bill "to provide an administrative center for the President, the Board of Visitors, a large dome room for special meetings. ..." This is the basis for State undertaking cost of maintenance.

1972 December

Challenge (magazine published by HUD): "The suite of elliptical rooms will include the President's Office and a meeting room for the Board of Visitors."

1973 Jan. 11

Governor's Budget recommends to General Assembly authorization of Rotunda work; Federal, $1,088,250, non-Federal, $1,033,250.

July 1

Appropriation Act authorizes Rotunda work as recommended.

July 10

Governor authorizes award of contract to R. E. Lee & Son.

July 16

HUD authorizes award of contract to R. E. Lee & Son.

July 18

Contract awarded by University.

Sept. 20

Notice by University to R. E. Lee to proceed with work, to be completed December 31, 1975.

September

Alumni News Rotunda reprint sent to all Deans and new faculty.

1826-1895 Dome Room, occupying 2/3 of cubic space, used as library-museum-ceremonial room. 6 oval rooms on lower floors were the administrative center of the University: Board of Visitors, Offices of Chairman and other officers. Other academic uses. Burned in 1895. 1895-1904 Dome Room enlarged as bookstack to occupy 3/4 of building. 2 large oval rooms (49' X 28') and 2 small oval rooms (37' X 16') eliminated. Title of "Chairman" changed to "President," office moved to Pavilion IV, thence in 1947 to Pavilion VIII. 1938-1939 Library moved to Alderman Building. Exterior of Rotunda restored (P.W.A. grant and General Assembly appropriation). Restoration and reconversion of interior deferred. World War II and post-war expansion caused further postponement. 1953-1964 Garden Club of Va., University, and private donors spend approximately $300,000 on restoration of pavilions, gardens, & crosswalks, looking toward ultimate restoration of Rotunda's interior form and functions. 1955 Feb. 11 Va. State Art Commission hears Board of Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds' proposal for restoration of Rotunda's main floor and 4 oval rooms for use by Board and President. Approves, provided there are "no considerable compromises." 1955 Feb. 12 Committee reports to Board. Minutes (Vol. XI, p. 395): The Chairman described a conversation with Fiske Kimball, leading authority on Jefferson's architecture and the neo-classic revival. Quotes Kimball as saying that Rotunda was Jefferson's "last great architectural monument . . . the functional idea of making the Rotunda the administrative center of the University was strictly in accord with Jefferson's conception of academic architecture." March F. D. Nichols' illustrated article on Rotunda in Alumni News: "oval rooms on main floor . . . could be used by the Board of Visitors and the Administration." Alumni response favorable. Dec. 17 Board of Visitors minutes (Vol. XI, p. 438). President authorized to construct model of Rotunda to show original oval rooms and main floor. 1957 June 7 Board of Visitors minutes (Vol. XII, pp. 42-3). B. & G. Committee presents Mr. Whitehurst's Rotunda model. Board votes approval of tentative plans "conditioned only upon the necessity of procuring funds for the work from private sources." Committee authorized to seek funds from foundations. 1957 National Trust for Historic Preservation lists Rotunda in its Survey of Historic Buildings. 1963-1972 Several hundred gifts of funds received for restoration, largest from several members of the Scott family. 1963-1974 Annual Rotunda Ball inaugurated by student groups. Excerpt from printed program: "The restoration of the Rotunda's interior to Mr. Jefferson's original plan would provide three oval rooms on the first floor for the offices of the Board of Visitors and the President . . . would make the Rotunda once again what he intended it should be -- the administrative and social center of the University." 1964 General Assembly appropriates $55,000 to replace Rotunda roof. 1965 July 28 Architectural Advisory Committee (T. K. Fitz Patrick, chairman) recommends Ballou & Justice as planning architects. Approved by Board of Visitors' Executive Committee. Sept. 25 President appoints a building committee (Rotunda Restoration Committee) to guide planning. Nov. 9 Restoration Committee's first meeting (9 members present). Agree unanimously upon general plan, as outlined by chairman and Mr. Nichols, to plan restored dome room as visitor center for exhibits, receptions, meetings, etc., main floor rooms for use of President and Board. Dec. 20 Secretary of Interior designates Rotunda as one of 4 National Historic Landmarks in Virginia for protection under National Park Service regulations. 1966 Jan. 7 President signs agreement with N.P.S. for preservation of Rotunda as National Historic Landmark. Feb. 24 Director of Budget requested to ask Appropriations Committee to change 1964 allowance of $55,000 for new roof to planning funds for restoration. April 2 Board of Visitors orders employment of Ballou & Justice as restoration architects. Private funds to be sought by President and committee. 1966 April 10 Illustrated article by Prof. Nichols in Richmond Times-Dispatch states that main floor oval rooms will be used by President and Board as offices. April 13 Rotunda ceremony for delivery of plaque as National Historic Landmark. Elbert Cox of National Park Service emphasizes University's commitment to restore functions as well as form to Rotunda. June 20 Restoration Committee minutes: "President's Office and Board of Visitors room are to occupy the larger oval rooms on main floor." Planning Office to submit Feasibility Report to State Budget Director. July Project Criteria submitted to Budget Director, providing in detail for use of large oval rooms on main floor by President and Board, small oval room (37' X 16') by Secretary of Board. Sept. 16 University's "Program" for Rotunda submitted to Art Commission. President's letter commits University to restoration of "both function and design to central building which now houses only portions of scattered central administration." Art Commission approves "restoration of the building and adaptation for current uses." Oct. 11 Governor grants authority (CO-1 form) to prepare capital outlay plans for interior restoration to "provide meeting rooms for the Board of Visitors, administrative space for the President, and a large dome room for special meetings ...exhibits and memorials." Oct. 18 Restoration Committee minutes. Unusual degree of support by Art Commission acknowledged. Use of rooms by President and Board found to be feasible. 1966 Oct.-Nov. Student Society of the Purple Shadows begins widespread distribution of pamphlet supporting and soliciting funds for Professor Nichols' interior restoration plans. 1966 Report and "Program" submitted to Budget Director. Calls for President's offices and Board of Visitors on main floor, Dome Room as visitor center, restoration of Pavilion VIII as faculty residence. 1968 April 3 Inquiry from National Park Service requesting assurance that rumored plans for restoration and use are in accord with 1966 agreement. 1969 May 8 Architects' Project Report: The Rotunda "exists solely as a symbol of its past glory and usefulness, and houses no function commensurate with the dignity of its design or the eminence of its concept." Sets forth general plan for Rotunda to house the President's Office, Board of Visitors' meeting room, and assembly hall above. May 19 Officers of Langhorne Trust meet with Restoration Committee and architects for review of plans. Pledge dollar-for-dollar matching funds. May 28 Pledge confirmed by letter up to $750,000. 1970 Oct. 9 Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission accepts Rotunda for listing in Virginia Landmarks Register. Nominates it for National Register of Historic Places. 1971 April 2 Virginia Division of Engineering and Buildings authorizes submission of drawings and specifications to Art Commission. May 1 Favorable review by Art Commission. 1972 March 27 Application for $1,088,250 submitted to Dept. of Housing and Urban Development. President pledges that Rotunda "will be maintained through the University's annual budgets as a central administrative building of the University. ... The restoration will once again provide for central administrative functions, for board meetings ... restoration of reconstructed oval rooms to administrative and committee functions." April 6-7 Architects present completed preliminary plans to Buildings and Grounds Committee. Taylor and Parrish's cost estimates of $2,176,500 approved. Board approves application to HUD for half of needed sum. April 14 Bicentennial Committee recommends Rotunda restoration as No. 1 priority for 1976. April 28 HUD grant of $1,088,250 and agreement signed at Monticello in presence of state, local, and national officials. President outlines plans for restoration (promising the restoration of "every function ... except the library function") in addresses at Monticello and at subsequent luncheon in Rotunda, attended by public officials and representatives of Garden Club of Va., Langhorne Trust, Rotunda Ball Committee, student leaders, Alumni, Visitors and formor Rectors, Bicentennial Commission, prominent private donors to restoration, General Assembly members, and many others. May 4 Cavalier Daily news story and editorial refer to use of Rotunda for administrative offices. One of many such references before and after in Charlottesville newspapers. 1972 May 5 Virginia Law Weekly editorial hails restoration, mentioning use of "main floor oval rooms for a much needed presidential office suite." May 5 Art Commission reviews and approves preliminary plans. Requests review of working drawings and specifications when completed. May 16 National Park Service sends representative to the review of plans by Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission. Favorable action. May-June State newspapers carry lengthy illustrated articles on Rotunda's restoration and future uses. Editorials in Roanoke World-News, Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, and other papers carry enthusiastic editorials referring specifically to use of main floor oval rooms for President's offices and Board of Visitors meetings. June 2 Board of Visitors adopts resolution thanking the Trustees of the Langhorne Trust, and assuring them that the University will "proceed with this long-planned restoration of design and function to its focal building." June 12 Mrs. Edward C. Anderson gives $5,000 to restoration, supplementing earlier gifts from sister and brother, Mrs. William Reed and Mr. Frederic Scott. June 20 Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission issues final letter of approval: "By good fortune the restoration of the original interior will result in making the Rotunda a more functional building. ... The East Oval Room appropriately assigned to the Board of Visitors. The West Oval Room, the North Oval Room, and approximately one-half of the hourglass-shaped hall is to be given over to the use of the President's Office." 1972 June 28 Julian P. Boyd's letter: "This is indeed a splendid contribution to the Bicentennial. ..." The plan for administrative use is "in keeping with Jefferson's aim to combine the useful and the beautiful." June Preservation News (organ of National Trust for Historic Preservation) announces restoration in full page illustrated editorial by its senior historian: "The restoration plan calls for reestablishing the main floor oval rooms and hallway for use by the President of the University and the Board of Visitors." July-Aug. Alumni News feature and cover article on the restoration: "The rooms on the main floor will be reconstructed for administration, board meetings ... the Rotunda once again will be the functional as well as the visual center of the University." 7,500 reprints widely distributed to faculty, students, alumni, and others. Aug. 4 Art Commission reviews working drawings and specifications with President and architects. Gives approval. October President's Report to Board of Visitors. Sent to faculty, members of Alumni Association, student leaders. States on pages 28 and 46 that President's Office will be moved to oval rooms on main floor. Nov. 20 Chattanooga Times editorial: "When completed, the Rotunda will once again be the hub of administrative direction with offices for the President. ..." Dec. 14 President submits CO-2 form requesting inclusion of Rotunda in 1973 Supplemental Appropriations Bill "to provide an administrative center for the President, the Board of Visitors, a large dome room for special meetings. ..." This is the basis for State undertaking cost of maintenance. 1972 December Challenge (magazine published by HUD): "The suite of elliptical rooms will include the President's Office and a meeting room for the Board of Visitors." 1973 Jan. 11 Governor's Budget recommends to General Assembly authorization of Rotunda work; Federal, $1,088,250, non-Federal, $1,033,250. July 1 Appropriation Act authorizes Rotunda work as recommended. July 10 Governor authorizes award of contract to R. E. Lee & Son. July 16 HUD authorizes award of contract to R. E. Lee & Son. July 18 Contract awarded by University. Sept. 20 Notice by University to R. E. Lee to proceed with work, to be completed December 31, 1975. September Alumni News Rotunda reprint sent to all Deans and new faculty.

MINUTES - BOARD OF VISITORS - APRIL 7, 1972

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CONTINUATION OF PLANNING FOR THE RESTORATION OF THE ROTUNDA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Buildings and Grounds Committee to continue planning for the restoration of the Rotunda be and it is hereby approved and accepted;RESOLVED further that the Board approves the plans prepared by Ballou and Justice for the replacement of the rooms that were removed from the Rotunda by Stanford White, so that the interior structure and proportions will be as they were designed and built by Thomas Jefferson (according to the model of the Pantheon) and as they existed from his death until the fire of 1895;RESOLVED further that the Board's approval is conditioned only upon the necessity of procuring funds for the work, and that the Board encourages the Committee and the President to continue the search for such funds;AND BE IT RESOLVED that the Board specifically authorizes an application by the President at this time to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for a grant of one half of the total estimate of $2,176,500, so that, with matching funds from non-Federal sources, this Historic American Landmark can be restored to its original design by the nation's anniversary year, 1976.

September 1972 - June 1973
--------------------------

MONTH

DATE

TIME

EVENT

SPONSOR

September

14

9:00

Graduate Mixer

University Union

September

23

8:30

Dance

Phi Delta Phi

September

28

4:00-6:00

Reception

Engineering Dept

October

2 - 5

6:30-9:30

Interviews

Guide Service

October

6

3:00-7:00

Party

Raven Society

October

7

8:00

Party

First Year Medical Class

October

20

5:00-11:00

Cocktail Party

Va. Law Weekly

October

20

10:45-11:45

Film on University Architecture

Economics Dept.

October

21

6:30

Dinner

Virginia Players

October

27

4:30

Fall Party

Corks & Curls

October

28

4:00-7:00

Cocktail Party

Nursing Class 1967 Reunion

November

3

8:30-12:30

Graduate Party

University Union

November

4

5:30-7:30

Cocktail Party

University Union

November

6

2:00-8:00

Registration

Experimental University

November

14

7:30-10:00

Initiation

A.E.D.

November

15

7:00

Wine Tasting

University Union

November

16

10:00-12:30

Initiation

St. Anthony Hall

November

18

7:00-12:00

Thanksgiving Party

Lawn Residents

December

1

9:00-1:00

Combo Party

Phi Alpha Delta

December

7

5:30-9:30

Cocktails

I.F.C.

December

8

9:00-2:00

Cocktails

Delta Upsilon

December

9

4:00-8:00

Cocktails

Cavalier Daily

December

13

7:30

Business Meeting

Guide Service

December

14

6:00-11:00

Party

Staff, Alderman Library

December

15

6:30-1:00

Formal Dance

Navy ROTC

December

16

6:00-10:00

Cocktails

Economics Dept.

December

17

6:00-12:00

Party

Glee Club

December

20

7:00-12:00

Party

Lawn Residents

January 1973

5

5:00-9:00

Banquet

Alpha Kappa Psi

February

9

8:30-12:00

Graduate Mixer

University Union

February

10

9:00-1:00

Ball

Nursing School

February

17

5:30-7:30

Cocktails

T.I.L.K.A.

February

24

6:00-11:00

Cocktails

Eli Banana

February

25

6:00-11:00

Wine Tasting

Student Leaders

February

28

8:00

Election Meeting

Guide Service

March

3

9:00

Law Review Reunion

Law Review

March

6

7:00

Wine Tasting

University Union

March

10

8:00-1:00

Dance

Phi Delia Phi

March

13

5:00-8:00

Registration

Experimental University

March

16

9:30-11:30

Reception

Glee Club

March

17

6:00-1:00

Ball

Delta Tan Delta

March

19

8:00

Rush Smoker

Theta Tan

MONTH

DATE

TIME

EVENT

SPONSOR

March

23

7:00-10:00

Cocktails

Commerce Wives

March

24

7:00

Rush Smoker

Theta Tau

March

28

7:00-12:00

Class Party

Architecture School

April

9

7:00

Dinner

Student Legal Forum

April

11

9:00-12:00

Reception

University Union

April

12

8:00-12:00

Graduate Dance

University Union

April

13

8:00

Banquet

Jefferson Societ

April

17

7:00-8:30

Meeting

Guide Service

April

20

5:00-9:00

Beer Party

Bon Voyage for Prof. Palmer

April

21

5:00-7:00

Cocktails

First Year Class GSBA

April

25

6:30

Dinner

Government Dept.

April

26

6:00-11:00

Dinner

Internal Medicin Department

April

28

5:00-1:00

Cocktails

Navy ROTC

April

29

6:00-1:00

Initiation

Theta Tau

May

2

4:30-6:00

Initiation

Phi Beta Kappa

May

3

6:00-10:00

Banquet

Raven Society

May

5

10:00-2:00

Ball

Restoration Ball Committee

May

8

6:30-8:30

Agnew Dinner

Student Legal Forum

May

9

6:30

Cocktails

I.F.C.

May

10

6:00-11:30

Cocktails

Lawn Residents

May

11

6:30

Dinner

Va. Engineering Foundation

May

12

7:00-1:00

Ball

Pi Kappa Phi

May

13

5:00-8:00

Wine Tasting

Law Wives

May

18

5:30

Banquet

Alpha Kappa Psi

May

19

8:30-12:30

Cocktails

Government Dept.

May

20

7:00-11:00

Recording Session

Glee Club

May

25

6:00-1:00

Cocktails

Dept. of Surgery

May

26

9:00-1:00

Dance

Virginia Players

June

1

5:00-7:00

Cocktails

Graduating Echol Scholars

Buildings and Grounds Committee - April 6, 1972

9\. Restoration of the Rotunda

Mr. Werner Sensbach presented Mr. Louis Ballou and Mr. John Allen, who described the preliminary drawings for the restoration of the Rotunda, almost exactly as built by Thomas Jefferson. They explained that certain exceptions were necessary to preserve the structural integrity of the Rotunda and to provide such modern conveniences as an elevator and air conditioning. They reported that the dome of the Rotunda is sound and that the reconstruction work will not alter the outside appearance of the Rotunda. Mr. Allen described the methods of lighting the rooms and showed drawings to the Committee that will provide an additional floor with rooms for the Board of Visitors and the President's Office. The estimated cost of the restoration will be about 2.2 million dollars.

Mr. Ballou and Mr. Allen showed the Committee schematic drawings and renderings of the restoration. The Committee approve the plans and commended the architects for their careful work.

MONTH DATE TIME EVENT SPONSOR September 14 9:00 Graduate Mixer University Union September 23 8:30 Dance Phi Delta Phi September 28 4:00-6:00 Reception Engineering Dept October 2 - 5 6:30-9:30 Interviews Guide Service October 6 3:00-7:00 Party Raven Society October 7 8:00 Party First Year Medical Class October 20 5:00-11:00 Cocktail Party Va. Law Weekly October 20 10:45-11:45 Film on University Architecture Economics Dept. October 21 6:30 Dinner Virginia Players October 27 4:30 Fall Party Corks & Curls October 28 4:00-7:00 Cocktail Party Nursing Class 1967 Reunion November 3 8:30-12:30 Graduate Party University Union November 4 5:30-7:30 Cocktail Party University Union November 6 2:00-8:00 Registration Experimental University November 14 7:30-10:00 Initiation A.E.D. November 15 7:00 Wine Tasting University Union November 16 10:00-12:30 Initiation St. Anthony Hall November 18 7:00-12:00 Thanksgiving Party Lawn Residents December 1 9:00-1:00 Combo Party Phi Alpha Delta December 7 5:30-9:30 Cocktails I.F.C. December 8 9:00-2:00 Cocktails Delta Upsilon December 9 4:00-8:00 Cocktails Cavalier Daily December 13 7:30 Business Meeting Guide Service December 14 6:00-11:00 Party Staff, Alderman Library December 15 6:30-1:00 Formal Dance Navy ROTC December 16 6:00-10:00 Cocktails Economics Dept. December 17 6:00-12:00 Party Glee Club December 20 7:00-12:00 Party Lawn Residents January 1973 5 5:00-9:00 Banquet Alpha Kappa Psi February 9 8:30-12:00 Graduate Mixer University Union February 10 9:00-1:00 Ball Nursing School February 17 5:30-7:30 Cocktails T.I.L.K.A. February 24 6:00-11:00 Cocktails Eli Banana February 25 6:00-11:00 Wine Tasting Student Leaders February 28 8:00 Election Meeting Guide Service March 3 9:00 Law Review Reunion Law Review March 6 7:00 Wine Tasting University Union March 10 8:00-1:00 Dance Phi Delia Phi March 13 5:00-8:00 Registration Experimental University March 16 9:30-11:30 Reception Glee Club March 17 6:00-1:00 Ball Delta Tan Delta March 19 8:00 Rush Smoker Theta Tan MONTH DATE TIME EVENT SPONSOR March 23 7:00-10:00 Cocktails Commerce Wives March 24 7:00 Rush Smoker Theta Tau March 28 7:00-12:00 Class Party Architecture School April 9 7:00 Dinner Student Legal Forum April 11 9:00-12:00 Reception University Union April 12 8:00-12:00 Graduate Dance University Union April 13 8:00 Banquet Jefferson Societ April 17 7:00-8:30 Meeting Guide Service April 20 5:00-9:00 Beer Party Bon Voyage for Prof. Palmer April 21 5:00-7:00 Cocktails First Year Class GSBA April 25 6:30 Dinner Government Dept. April 26 6:00-11:00 Dinner Internal Medicin Department April 28 5:00-1:00 Cocktails Navy ROTC April 29 6:00-1:00 Initiation Theta Tau May 2 4:30-6:00 Initiation Phi Beta Kappa May 3 6:00-10:00 Banquet Raven Society May 5 10:00-2:00 Ball Restoration Ball Committee May 8 6:30-8:30 Agnew Dinner Student Legal Forum May 9 6:30 Cocktails I.F.C. May 10 6:00-11:30 Cocktails Lawn Residents May 11 6:30 Dinner Va. Engineering Foundation May 12 7:00-1:00 Ball Pi Kappa Phi May 13 5:00-8:00 Wine Tasting Law Wives May 18 5:30 Banquet Alpha Kappa Psi May 19 8:30-12:30 Cocktails Government Dept. May 20 7:00-11:00 Recording Session Glee Club May 25 6:00-1:00 Cocktails Dept. of Surgery May 26 9:00-1:00 Dance Virginia Players June 1 5:00-7:00 Cocktails Graduating Echol Scholars