Board of Visitors minutes (1975) May 30, 1975
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 30, 1975

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TENTATIVE MINUTES Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 30, 1975
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., on May 30, 1975, in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., W. Wright Harrison, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: DuPont Guerry, III and Hugh Scott. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Avery Catlin, Vincent Shea, Kenneth R. Crispell and Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 14, 1975 previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in May 1976. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., and William L. Zimmer, III.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Sciences CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1975-1976. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. William L. Zimmer, III Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.Mr. William L. Zimmer, III Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMrs. Linwood HoltonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. George C. Palmer, IIMr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. William L. Zimmer, III Health Sciences CommitteeDr. DuPont, Guerry, III, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. Edwin K. MatternMr. Howard W. McCall, Jr.Mr. George C. Palmer, IISenator Hugh Scott Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. William E. LeggettMr. Edwin K. Mattern Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Waller Barrett, ChairmanDr. DuPont Guerry, IIIMrs. Linwood HoltonMr. William E. LeggettMr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Andrea Allen as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Harvey B. Aronson as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James M. Baker as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Frans R. Bax as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert L. Baxter, Jr., as Instructor, General Faculty, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975. (Biographical sketch in October 1, 1973 Docket.)Mr. Carl M. Brauer as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John F. Burleigh as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Lawrence R. Burwell as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Billy J. Campsey, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Fred V. Carstensen as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Jane B. Casey as Lecturer in English, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. M. J. Clarke as Visiting Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, for the period June 16, 1975 through September 30, 1975.Dr. Phil Collins as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. William M. Colony as Professor of City Planning, for two years, effective August 1, 1975, with salary provided by the Environmental Protection Agency.Miss Martha A. Cook as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Roger D. Cox as Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Thomas H. Cromartie as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John F. Cushman as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. John H. Danby as Associate Professor of Family Medicine (Lynchburg), for three years, effective June 1, 1975.Dr. Charles M. Davis as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.LCDR Edward A. Davis as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Edward M. Davis as Lecturer in Religious Studies, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Sharon D. Decker as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mrs. Sandra DiJkstra as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Mark J. Elson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Stephen J. Farber as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph Fletcher as Visiting Scholar in Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Gerald P. Fogarty as Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Anne H. Freeman as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. Elroy J. Friesen as Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for three years, effective June 1, 1975.Dr. J. William Futrell as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Thomas J. Gal as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Ann B. Gates as Visiting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. C. Edward Good as Lecturer in Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. John A. Hagy as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, (Roanoke), for three years, effective May 1, 1975.Mr. Clifford W. Haury as Instructor in History, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Ann R. Higgins as Instructor in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Robert H. Hodge, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. David L. Holmes as Scholar-in-Residence, Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Benjamin C. Howland as Visiting Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. John L. Hudson as Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Charlie D. Hurt, III, as Instructor, General Faculty, Engineering Library, for the period June 1, 1975 through June 30, 1976.Mrs. Jill Jones as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Howard I. Kator as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective February 1, 1975.Dr. Thaddeus E. Kelly as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Diana E. Kleiner as Lecturer in the History of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Fred S. Kleiner as Assistant Professor of the History of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Edith W. Kirsch as Lecturer in the History of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Rita J. Kirshstein as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Constance B. Kuriyama as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William H. Lucy as Associate Professor of City Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. James R. Markello as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective April 1, 1975.Mr. Robert M. McLeod as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Gilbert C. Meilaender, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David E. Mills as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Kenneth R. Mladenka as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Frank C. Mohler as Acting Assistant Professor of Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James C. Nohrnberg as Professor of English, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Ralph G. O'Brien as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. J. Frederick O'Bryant as Instructor, General Faculty, Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective May 1, 1975.Mr. Richard Odessey as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Anthony C. Olcott as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Geoffrey C. Orth as Instructor in German, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Laurence J. O'Toole, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Charlotte J. Patterson as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Barry J. Pearson as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Richard W. F. Pope as Visiting Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Shivnath Prasad as Visiting Professor of Architecture, one-half time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Shivnath Prasad as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. Terrence W. Pratt as Visiting Associate Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Yale Rabin as Associate Professor of City Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Theodore W. Rall as Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Jacques J. Roger as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Alan D. Rogol as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 1, 1975.Mr. Lawrence E. Rose as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Cynthia W. Sanborn as Instructor in Nursing, for the period March 1, 1975 through May 15, 1975.Dr. Narendra C. Shah as Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, for the period March 1, 1975 through June 30, 1976.Miss Mary J. Smith as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Norman E. Smith as Visiting Associate Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert D. Snodgrass as Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Sarah N. Stever as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ralph W. Stone, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, one-half time, for one year, effective June 16, 1975.Mr. Harold D. Taylor as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Kenneth W. Thompson as Commonwealth Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. George E. Toles as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Shirley Van Marter as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John T. Ward, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James D. White as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. Roy G. Willis as Visiting Associate Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Joan W. Wilson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective June 1, 1975.Mrs. Linda K. J. Wilson as Instructor in French, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Joseph R. Zanga as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 1, 1975.Mr. William E. Zierden as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF DR. JACK M. GWALTNEY, JR., AS WADE HAMPTON FROST PROFESSOR OF EPIDEMIOLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Wade Hampton Frost Professor of Epidemiology.

ELECTION OF MR. OSCAR L. MILLER, JR., AS WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Oscar L. Miller, Jr., be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1975.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF JANUARY 10, 1975
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Gene E. Clapsaddle, as approved by the Board on January 10, 1975, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Gene E. Clapsaddle as Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1974.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF JANUARY 24, 1974
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Jan C. Louw, as approved by the Board on January 24, 1974, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Jan C. Louw as Associate Professor of Psychiatry, part-time, for three years, effective January 1, 1974.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. John P. Adams as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics and of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Donald W. Ball as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. William J. Berman as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William C. Berry as Associate Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Edward M. Bloomberg as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Christabel P. Braunrot as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Gary Brooker as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. William M. Cseh as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Frederick M. Denny as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Charles P. Emerson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Kay Engler as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Annette Gibbs as Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles S. Green, III, as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Howard L. Hamilton as Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ronald B. Hanawalt as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John J. Hinrichsen as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. John C. Hortenstine as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective February 1, 1975.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James J. Kent as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert C. Leighton as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. William J. Logan as Assistant Professor of Neurology and of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Stephen B. Manuck as Assistant Professor of Psychology, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.The Honorable Robert H. McBride as Diplomat-in-Residence, Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Michael L. McCartney as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Natalie K. Moyle as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Richard A. Murphy as Associate Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Costas T. Papatriantafillou as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Brian J. Parshall as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John S. Pettengill as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robin K. Ransone as Visiting Associate Professor of Systems Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Robert A. Reid as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Larry G. Richards as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Jorge Roman as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Rafael Rubio as Associate Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Leonard G. Sbrocchi as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William J. Starosta as Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Richard P. Wenzel as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Patricia J. Widhalm as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert D. Wilson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Henry W. Wingate as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Darden School Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1975. Mr. Wingate served as Law Librarian 1973-74.Dr. Sarfraz A. Zaidi as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. JOHN A. JAMES
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the date of the re-election of Mr. John A. James as Assistant Professor of Economics, as approved by the Board on March 14, 1975, be changed from September 1, 1975, to September 1, 1976.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. MICHAEL P. MURRAY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the date of the re-election of Mr. Michael P. Murray as Assistant Professor of Economics, as approved by the Board on March 14, 1975, be changed from September 1, 1975, to September 1, 1976.

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MRS. PATRICIA M. RODIER
------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the re-election of Mrs. Patricia M. Rodier as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, as approved by the Board on March 14, 1975, be changed from one year to three years, effective July 1, 1975.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Edmund Berkeley, Jr., Assistant Professor, General Faculty, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. S. Michael Bernhard, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Diane Cothren, Instructor, Medical Library, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Richard S. Crampton, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Richard L. Crozier, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Richard F. Edlich, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Anas M. El-Mahdi, Associate Professor, to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Martin J. Faigel, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Charles J. Flickinger, Associate Professor, to Professor of Anatomy, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Adrian R. L. Gear, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Jack M. Gwaltney, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Peter W. Holloway, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert J. Kadner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Roy Land, Associate Professor, to Professor, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. C. Jared Loewenstein, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Susan O. Marcell, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Ferid Murad, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Bruce J. Neilson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Katharine L. Picard, Instructor, to Assistant Professor, Law Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Michael Plunkett, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Ann P. Pumphrey, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. William E. Reefe, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Steven I. Reger, Lecturer, to Research Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Wallace P. Ritchie, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Carolyn T. Rizzetta, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Joel P. Schrank, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Edith B. Schwartz, Research Assistant Professor, to Research Associate Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert A. Seal, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. James Shaeffer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. S. Murray Sherman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles C. Sisson, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Lewis E. Snyder, Associate Professor, to Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William Steinberg, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Linda A. Sundholm, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Donald E. Sweet, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Charles J. Tegtmeyer, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Harry A. Wellons, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Donna D. Wilson, Instructor, General Faculty, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Stephen L. Baehr, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research in USSR on official cultural exchange with grant from the International Research and Exchange Board.Mr. Malcolm Bell, III, Assistant Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976, to work on a project concerning his study of the Hellenistic necropolis Kentoripa, Sicily.Mr. R. Ralph Biggadike, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for the period September 1, 1975 through December 31, 1975, to complete dissertation for Doctor of Business Administration, Harvard Business School.Mr. Robert D. Dripps, III, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to accept a teaching position at Central Polytechnic Architectural School, London.Mr. Eleftherios N. Economou, Associate Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as visiting faculty at the University of Chicago.Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg, Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as Visiting Professor in Giulio Racah Chair of Theoretical Physics, Hebrew University, Jerusalem.Mr. Harry L. Garnham, Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, for personal reasons.Mr. Earl A. Glosser, Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve in the George Peabody School for teachers overseas program in Counseling Psychology.Mr. Norman A. Graebner, Edward R. Stettinius Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to assume the directorship of Bicentennial Commission of the State of Pennsylvania.Mr. Stephen T. Hedetniemi, Associate Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research at the University of Victoria.Mr. Walter J. Hoagman, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for one year, effective January 1, 1975, to serve with the foreign service in Viet Nam.Mr. Alan B. Howard, Associate Professor of English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research.Mr. Yukon Huang, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept an assignment with the U. S. Treasury.Mrs. Constance B. Kuriyama, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to complete commitment to the University of Arizona.Dr. Thomas W. Lamb, Associate Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1975, to carry out research.Mr. Donald L. Martin, Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research at the University of Miami Law School.Miss Lucila I. Mena, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept a Social Science Research Council grant.Mr. Richard A. Merrill, Professor of Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as General Counsel for the Food and Drug Administration.Mr. John H. Moore, Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975 to accept a research appointment at the Hoover Institute, Palo Alto.Miss Barbara G. Murphy, Instructor, Law Library, for the period August 1, 1975 through August 15, 1975, to complete requirements for Master's degree in Library Science, Catholic University, Washington.Mr. Edgar O. Olsen, Associate Professor of Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research.Miss Marion Roberts, Associate Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to complete work on a book concerning the Biblical reliefs on the facade of Wells Cathedral.Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel, Associate Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept an appointment with NASA under the 1975 Federal Faculty Fellowship Program.Mr. Roger A. Rydin, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research at the Institut fur Reaktorent Wicklung der Kernforschungsanlage, Julich, West Germany.Mr. Stephen A. Saltzburg, Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as visiting professor at Berkeley, California.Mr. Ernest A. Scatton, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research.Mr. Robert E. Stong, Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976, to visit the Institute for Advanced Studies.Mr. Richard J. Van Brunt, Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to continue his research at the Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, Boulder, Colorado.

CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED MR. LEOPOLD DAMROSCH, JR.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr., by the Board at its meeting on March 14, 1975, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr., Associate Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED MR. PETER H. TAYLOR
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted Mr. Peter H. Taylor, by the Board at its meeting on March 14, 1975, be changed from the first semester, effective September 1, 1975, to the second semester, effective January 16, 1976.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. J. Francis Amos, from Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine and of Internal Medicine, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Judith A. Bancroft, from Associate Professor of Nursing and Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Associate Professor of Nursing and Assistant Professor of Education, for the period January 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Richard B. Barnett, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. R. Leonard Brown, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for the period May 1, 1975 through May 31, 1977.Mr. Victor N. Cabas, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Norman Familant, from Instructor in Economics, to Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Stuart S. Howards, from Associate Professor of Urology, to Associate Professor of Urology and of Physiology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert M. Hubbard, from Professor of Chemical Engineering, to Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Terry MacDougall, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John S. Rose, from Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ernst H. Soudek, from Associate Professor of German, to Associate Professor of Humanities, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Miss Nellie B. Carwile, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective September 30, 1975. Miss Carwile has been a member of the staff since 1957.Mr. David Baxter Moyer as Treasurer of the University of Virginia, effective June 30, 1975. Mr. Moyer has been a member of the staff since 1946.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert W. Artinian, Assistant Professor of French, effective May 31, 1975, to accept the Chairmanship of the Modern Language Department, Sweet Briar College.Mr. Robert M. Chamberlain, Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position at Baylor Medical School.Mr. James F. Childress, Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective August 31, 1975, to accept a position at Georgetown University as Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr., Professor of Christian Ethics.Dr. Andrew J. Chmiel, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1975, to pursue psychoanalytic training in Washington.Mr. Curtis W. McIntyre, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective July 31, 1975, to accept a position at Southern Methodist University.Mrs. Laurel R. Rodd, Acting Assistant Professor of Japanese, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position at another institution.Mr. John A. Sanderson, Assistant Dean, School of Education, effective August 31, 1975, to devote full time to teaching.Dr. Rajindar Singh, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 31, 1975, to accept another position.Mr. William H. Van Hoose as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, effective May 31, 1975, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. C. Lee Woods, Assistant Professor of Education, effective March 31, 1975, to accept a position elsewhere.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Martin Battestin as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for the months of July and August, 1975.Mr. Robert L. Baxter, Jr., as Assistant Dean of Students, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Thomas F. Bergin, William Minor Lile Professor of Law, as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Staige D. Blackford as Editor, Virginia Quarterly Review and Special Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Leroy S. Fletcher as Chairman, Department of Mechanical Engineering, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David B. Harned as Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John L. Hudson as Chairman, Department of Chemical Engineering, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Robert A. Jahrsdoerfer as Acting Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Norman J. Knorr as Associate Dean, and Director of Admissions, School of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr., as Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for four years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. H. Clifton McCleskey as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. James C. Nohrnberg as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert H. Pate as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., as Treasurer of the University of Virginia, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Kenneth W. Thompson as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Chairman, Department of Health and Physical Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Rolland A. Bowers as Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Milton T. Edgerton as Chairman, Department of Plastic Surgery, for five years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Harold B. Haley as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, Roanoke, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles H. Hudgins as Director, Computing Activities and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Ralph W. Ingersoll as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Frederick T. Kain, Jr., as Associate Director for Finance, Computer Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Executive Director, Tayloe Murphy Institute, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective February 1, 1975.Mr. Ralph D. Pinto as Associate Legal Adviser, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles A. Plesums, as Associate Director for Computer Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Peter A. Soderbergh as Associate Dean for Admissions and Student Affairs, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Edward J. White, as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF THE WADE HAMPTON FROST PROFESSORSHIP IN EPIDEMIOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Wade Hampton Frost Professorship in Epidemiology, effective May 30, 1975, made possible by a grant from the Sterling Drug Company.

RENAMING OF THE TUBERCULOSIS FOUNDATION OF VIRGINIA, INC., CHAIR IN PULMONARY MEDICINE THE E. CATO DRASH PROFESSORSHIP
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Chair in the School of Medicine known as the Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia, Inc., Professorship in Pulmonary Medicine be and it is hereby renamed the E. Cato Drash Professorship in Pulmonary Medicine established by the Tuberculosis Foundation of Virginia Incorporated.

APPROVAL OF THE 1975-76 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1975-76 University Budget be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1975-76 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
--------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1975-76 University Hospital Budget be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1975-76 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION, AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1975-76 Budgets for Clinch Valley College, the School of Continuing Education, and the Public Service Bureaus, be and they are hereby approved.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

In a report that was distributed to the Board on the status of construction projects, the Board was advised that the restoration and adaptation of the Rotunda project is progressing as scheduled, and that the building will be ready for occupancy in January of 1976. The Health Sciences Library and Information Center project is also on schedule, and will be ready for occupancy on July 1, 1975. Five other projects are under construction.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported that due to a change in reporting dates, the University was unable to obtain the salary information from the AAU institutions in time for analysis before this meeting. He advised the Board that an analysis of the salary data will be mailed to the Board as soon as it becomes available.

RESOLUTION APPROVING THE 1975 REVISION OF THE MANUAL
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 5.8 of the Manual, proposed revisions to the Manual were sent to the Executive Committee, and its views on the amendments were sent to the Board with the regular notice of the meeting, and;WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the Manual and the Executive Committee recommended that the Manual be revised and reprinted;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the 1975 revision of the Manual be and it is hereby made effective as of May 30, 1975.

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the daily rates for rooms in the hospital be and they are hereby increased by $9.00 effective at the close of business on June 30, 1975.

AMENDMENT TO THE MINUTES OF MARCH 29, 1974
------------------------------------------

At the time the contract was let for Phase I of the new building for the School of Law the University had insufficient funds to award the contract. It was recommended to the Finance Committee and approved by the Committee that an additional $50.00 increase in out-of-State tuition in the School of Law be allocated to amortize the cost of the new building when the next increase in such tuition was approved by the Board.

The schedule of tuition increases approved by the Board on March 29, 1974 raised the out-of-State tuition in the School of Law by $275.00 but failed to make such allocation.

The following resolution was adopted to replace the resolution of March 29, 1974: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the out-of-State tuition charge for students entering the School of Law be and it is hereby increased by $275.00 per session, effective September 1974, and that $50.00 of the increase be allocated for the amortization of a loan necessary to provide additional funds for the new School of Law building.

NAMING OF THE UNIVERSITY PROPERTY WEST OF EMMET STREET AND NORTH OF THE RIGHT OF WAY OF THE CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University property west of Emmet Street and north of the right of way of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway be and it is hereby named the North Grounds of the University of Virginia.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$221,620.89

Free service to Counties and Cities

484,696.12

\-----------

Total

$706,317.01

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $706,317.01, as recommended by it, consisting of the following:Bad debts$221,620.89Free service to Counties and Cities484,696.12-----------Total$706,317.01

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF PROPERTY AT 36 UNIVERSITY CIRCLE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee had, on April 21, 1975, authorized the sale of a house and lot at 36 University Circle to Dean Bruce W. Nelson.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE SALE OF SEWARD FOREST
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee had on April 21, 1975 authorized the sale of Seward Forest, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia, to Brunswick County, Virginia.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to support the Alumni Association is for the current fiscal year only and is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on December 8, 1962.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts and grants. He expressed the sincere appreciation of the University to those who contributed, or supported University activities.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF SPECIAL GIFT OF $300,000 FROM THE UNION CAMP CORPORATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that a gift of $300,000 was provided by the Union Camp Corporation to be used for the building of Sponsors Hall of the Darden School of Graduate Business Administration. He announced also that the Library in the Darden School of Graduate Business Administration will be named the Camp Library.

CHANGE IN TITLE OF ASSOCIATE COMPTROLLER TO UNIVERSITY COMPTROLLER
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted by the Board on June 5, 1970, authorizing the Associate Comptroller to execute instruments in the name of and on behalf of the Rector and Visitors be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:The President reported that by action of the Board on December 12, 1952 and October 3, 1969 resolutions were adopted authorizing certain University officers to execute instruments on behalf of the Rector and Visitors. It has been recommended that this authorization be extended to the University Comptroller.RESOLVED, by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia any instrument which may hereafter require the name of this corporation to be signed thereto, including specifically, without limitation, deeds, contracts, options, and other instruments and documents dealing with real estate and interests in real estate and any instruments executed pursuant to Section 23-77.2 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, granting easements for roads, streets, sewers, water lines, electric and other utility lines, or any other purpose, or any property now owned or hereafter acquired by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the University Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized and empowered to sell, assign and transfer any and all stocks, bonds, evidences of interest or indebtedness, rights, and options, to acquire or to sell the same, and all other securities, corporate or otherwise, standing in the name of, or belonging to, this corporation in any capacity, andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the University Comptroller be and he is hereby fully authorized and empowered to give the assent of this corporation to such mergers, consolidations, agreements for deposit of stock, or for reorganization of any corporation in which The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia may have an interest; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that the Secretary and Assistant Secretary be and either of them is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to affix the corporate seal of the University of Virginia to such instruments and to attest the same; andRESOLVED FURTHER, that such instruments when submitted for execution shall have been approved by the University's Special Counsel who is also authorized to take appropriate action to complete these transactions.

CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSED PURCHASE OF THE TOWERS HOSPITAL
-------------------------------------------------------------

The President referred to a Sales Contract dated May 6, 1975, for the purchase by the University of the Towers Hospital and outlined the terms and conditions for the purchase. The terms include a provision that the University Medical Center would assume full responsibility for the hospital and/or nursing care of patients in that facility on July 1, 1975. The President advised the Board that he and his staff had used their best efforts to work out all of the problems, that had arisen, including legal questions, and that this was the best package that could be put together for presentation to the Board. He recommended that the Towers Hospital be purchased and sought approval of the Sales Contract, subject to favorable ruling of the Attorney General and to further approval of the Governor.

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, said that the matter had been considered at great length, that the Finance Committee had concluded that the Contract was not acceptable, and that the Committee was unable to recommend it to the Board.

Following this, all members of the Board present voted to reject the proposal except for the following Visitors who did not participate in the discussion and did not vote on the issue: Messrs. Robert P. Buford, George C. Palmer, William E. Leggett, and W. Wright Harrison.

STATEMENT BY THE RECTOR
-----------------------

The Rector observed that there has been increasing concern about admissions. He noted that the University is much sought after by both Virginia and out-of-State students, that competition for admission is very keen, and that many sons and daughters of alumni have been refused admission. Though the Board works toward keeping the University a strong national institution, we must keep before us the obligation that we have as a state University to provide educational opportunity for citizens of the Commonwealth.

APPOINTMENT OF A COMMITTEE ON A DECORATIVE FOUNTAIN TO BE LOCATED WEST OF THE ROTUNDA
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector appointed a special committee to study the feasibility and cost of installing a fountain west of the Rotunda similar to the fountain located east of the Rotunda. The Committee is as follows:

Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Chairman

C. Waller Barrett

George C. Palmer, II

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Miss Diedre H. Brantley as Assistant Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1975.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. George E. Culbertson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Van W. Daniel, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Neva Y. Gibson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Library Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Betty J. Gilliam, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Betty M. Humphreys, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Business, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Lois P. Lowry, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Rosemary P. Mercure, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Library Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Emmet F. Low, Jr., as Dean of the College, for five years, effective July 1, 1975.

INCREASE IN RESIDENCE HALL RENT AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------

Per Semester

Current

Rates Proposed

McCrary Hall

$176

$192

Martha Randolph Hall

$144

$192

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the rental fees for accommodations in the residence houses at Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective for the fall semester of 1975:Per SemesterCurrentRates ProposedMcCrary Hall$176$192Martha Randolph Hall$144$192

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-APPOINTMENTS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Associate Dean, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Wendell M. Lewis as Assistant Dean for Instruction, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. David A. Brewster as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected:Mr. Peter R. Henriques as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. William F. Lanier as Director, Northern Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

RICHMOND VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected:Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Assistant Professor of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Director, Richmond Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Charles E. Smith as Director, University of Virginia's Program, F.B.I. National Academy, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 2:40 p.m.

RCB:jb