Board of Visitors minutes (1978) October 7, 1978
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 7, 1978

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 7, 1978
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:50 a.m., on October 7, 1978, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Stephen C. Mahan, George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Frank S. Royal, Hugh Scott, and D. French Slaughter, Jr. Absent: Howard W. McCall, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, John J. Owen, and William H. Muller were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 2, 1978, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF ELECTION OF MR. DAVID T. BUXTON
-----------------------------------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. THOMAS WEX
----------------------------------------------

ELECTION TO CHAIR
-----------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF MR. RAYMOND C. HEIDLOFF
--------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE OF A PROFESSORSHIP TO BE CALLED THE PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL CHAIR IN PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTING
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALMAND R. COLEMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN THE COLGATE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President discussed briefly a report on the status of construction of various projects in the University. The largest projects now in the construction stage include the Primary Care Center Building scheduled for completion in February 1979, Law School Phase II which will be ready for occupancy in December of 1978, and Scott Stadium Expansion project which is presently delayed due to structural problems.

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

The Legal Adviser, George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$4,537,857.71

Free Service to Counties and Cities

761,754.48

\---------------

Total

$5,299,612.19

CONFIRMATION OF 1979 BOARD MEETING DATES
----------------------------------------

REPORT BY THE RECTOR OF THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NOMINATING MEMBERS IN THE ART AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that acting for the Board on June 21, 1978, the Executive Committee approved the nomination of the following individuals for membership in the Art and Architectural Review Council. He explained that the Governor's Office requested the nominations on June 20, 1978, and asked that they be submitted without delay, hence the action could not be deferred until the date of this meeting. The following were nominated: Messrs. David Gibson, William B. O'Neal, John E. Wilson, and Frederick H. Cox, Jr.

UNIVERSITY RETIREMENT POLICY
----------------------------

RESOLUTION ON EASEMENT TO PRINCE WILLIAM ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE
-------------------------------------------------------------

RESIGNATION OF MR. COLGATE W. DARDEN, JR., FROM THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. HENRY FOWLER as A MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RENTAL RATES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR THE SUMMER 1979
-------------------------------------------------------

FACILITY

CURRENT RATE

PROPOSED RATE SUMMER, 1979

Alderman-Observatory

per student per week double occupancy

$18

$20

per student per week single occupancy

$24

$26

Nurses Apartment Complex

per student per week double occupancy

$22

$24

per student per week single occupancy

$30

$32

Monroe Hill Houses

per student per week double occupancy

$22

$24

per student per week single occupancy

$30

$32

SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

Lambeth Field, Copeley III, and Nurses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 9

$10

per person per night single occupancy

$11

$13

Family rates per week two bedroom apartments

$70

$90

Family rates per week three bedroom apts.

$84

$100

Monroe Hill Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 7

$ 8

per person per night single occupancy

$10

$11

Alderman-Observatory Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 6

$ 6.50

per person per night single occupancy

$ 8

$ 9

McCormick Road Houses

per person per night double occupancy

$ 5

$ 5.50

per person per night single occupancy

$ 7

$ 8

Guest Facilities at McCormick Houses

per person for first night

$ 6

$ 7

per person per night thereafter

$ 4

$ 5

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President distributed a list of gifts received by the University and a report on sponsored programs covering the period May 1, 1978, through June 30, 1978. Gifts for the period totaled $598,800. Also reported was $7,315,800 for the support of sponsored programs at the University of Virginia. The report was received by the Board of Visitors.

DISCUSSION OF CAVALIER DAILY REQUEST
------------------------------------

In response to a request for information about an appeal from the Cavalier Daily with respect to the payment of salaries to its staff, the President advised that he received an appeal from the decision of the Student Activities Committee which excluded salary payments to Cavalier Daily staff members. Before the President acted on this appeal the Cavalier Daily rejected Student Activity Funds and began payment of salaries to staff members, thus making the appeal moot. The President advised that he has not received any further requests on appeals in the matter. Under Section 5.3 of the Manual, communications to the Board are channeled through the Office of the President. This will again be explained to the Cavalier Daily.

DISCUSSION OF AN ATHLETIC REPORT
--------------------------------

The President discussed with the Board a report, which he considers to be a presidential paper, from Mr. Eugene Corrigan, Director of Athletic Programs. Mr. Hereford advised the Board that he intends to make a statement about athletic matters on October 9, 1978.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1978
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ARTS AND SCIENCES

Budget(1) (1)Note: Budget amounts represent the total approved by the Board from inception through 1978-79. Approved By Board

Expenditures(2) (2)Expenditure amounts represent the total expended from inception through June 30, 1978. To Date

Unexpended Balance 06/30/78

Biology

Student Support

$ 47,200.00

$ 33,549.00

$ 13,651.00

Faculty Salary Supplement

7,000.00

1,875.56

5,124.44

Research and Equipment

212,200.00

65,114.76

147,085.24

$ 266,400.00

$ 100,539.32

$ 165,860.68

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 36,150.00

$ 14,000.82

$ 22,149.18

Faculty Salary Supplement

3,500.00

0.00

3,500.00

Research and Equipment

188,000.00

10,000.00

178,000.00

$ 227,650.00

$ 24,000.82

$ 203,649.18

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 82,000.00

$ 31,800.00

$ 50,200.00

Faculty Salary Supplement

80,000.00

0.00

80,000.00

Research and Equipment

0.00

0.00

0.00

$ 162,000.00

$ 31,800.00

$ 130,200.00

Physics

Student Support

$ 123,200.00

$ 60,865.56

$ 62,334.44

Faculty Salary Supplement

1,500.00

0.00

1,500.00

Research and Equipment

211,000.00

0.00

211,000.00

$ 335,700.00

$ 60,865.56

$ 274,834.44

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE

Student Support

$ 50,000.00

$ 12,925.00

$ 37,075.00

Research and Equipment

948,761.00

58,684.21

890,076.79

$ 998,761.00

$ 71,609.91

$ 927,151.79

$ 1,990,511.00

$ 288,814.91

$ 1,701,696.09

ARTS AND SCIENCES Budget(1) (1)Note: Budget amounts represent the total approved by the Board from inception through 1978-79. Approved By Board Expenditures(2) (2)Expenditure amounts represent the total expended from inception through June 30, 1978. To Date Unexpended Balance 06/30/78 Biology Student Support $ 47,200.00 $ 33,549.00 $ 13,651.00 Faculty Salary Supplement 7,000.00 1,875.56 5,124.44 Research and Equipment 212,200.00 65,114.76 147,085.24 $ 266,400.00 $ 100,539.32 $ 165,860.68 Chemistry Student Support $ 36,150.00 $ 14,000.82 $ 22,149.18 Faculty Salary Supplement 3,500.00 0.00 3,500.00 Research and Equipment 188,000.00 10,000.00 178,000.00 $ 227,650.00 $ 24,000.82 $ 203,649.18 Mathematics Student Support $ 82,000.00 $ 31,800.00 $ 50,200.00 Faculty Salary Supplement 80,000.00 0.00 80,000.00 Research and Equipment 0.00 0.00 0.00 $ 162,000.00 $ 31,800.00 $ 130,200.00 Physics Student Support $ 123,200.00 $ 60,865.56 $ 62,334.44 Faculty Salary Supplement 1,500.00 0.00 1,500.00 Research and Equipment 211,000.00 0.00 211,000.00 $ 335,700.00 $ 60,865.56 $ 274,834.44 SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Student Support $ 50,000.00 $ 12,925.00 $ 37,075.00 Research and Equipment 948,761.00 58,684.21 890,076.79 $ 998,761.00 $ 71,609.91 $ 927,151.79 $ 1,990,511.00 $ 288,814.91 $ 1,701,696.09

Note: Budget amounts represent the total approved by the Board from inception through 1978-79.

Expenditure amounts represent the total expended from inception through June 30, 1978.

REVISED PATENT POLICY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAPolicyDefinition of University Research and ResearcherAdministrative Responsibilities1. Associate Provost for Research2. The Office of Sponsored Programs3. The University Research Policy CouncilDistribution of Royalties to the Inventor(s)Inventions and Discoveries which are not the Result of University Research
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The policy of the University of Virginia is to consider and, where appropriate, assist in the patenting and commercial development of discoveries or inventions which are the product of University research. Any person who may be engaged in University research shall be required to execute a patent agreement with the University in which the rights and obligations of both parties are defined.

For the purpose of this Patent Policy and any documents developed for its implementation, University research is defined as research and related activities by any person a) which are related in any way to duties or responsibilities for which he has been compensated either by or through the University or b) for which facilities owned, operated, or controlled by the University are used.

Products of research eligible for copyright protection are excluded from this definition.

Modification of this definition of University research may be effected by the terms of a contract between the University and another public or private agency or, in exceptional circumstances, in the patent agreement with an individual University researcher.

A researcher is any person who may be engaged in University research.

Responsibility for the administration of the University of Virginia Patent Policy is assigned to the Associate Provost for Research.

Decisions regarding the University's rights to an invention shall be made within a reasonable time so that an inventor's options are not compromised unnecessarily.

In general, the inventor(s) will receive from any product of University research fifteen percent of the gross royalties which accrue from inventions for which the University obtains a patent.

An institutional agreement between the University and an outside patent management firm, such as the University of Virginia Alumni Patents Foundation or Research Corporation, or between the University and a Federal agency, such as the National Institutes Of Health, will specify a distribution of royalties.

Individual grants or contracts for sponsored University research with public or private agencies may specify an assignment of patent(s) ownership and distribution of royalties of which the researcher shall be informed before research is conducted under such an award or contract.

The University normally will relinquish any claim to an invention or discovery which is judged by the Associate Provost for Research not to be the product of University research. However, in such cases the researcher may request that the invention or discovery be appraised by and, if appropriate, assigned to the University. In such cases, the terms of the agreement will be determined by the inventor and the University.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSRETIREMENTAPPOINTMENTSRE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. MARVIS C. WEBBBACHELOR OF ARTS DEGREE PROGRAM WITH A MAJOR IN PERFORMING ARTS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
-----------------------------------------------

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTIONCENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERS - CONTINUEDAPPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERAPPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 1:00 p.m.

RCB:jb