<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1989)

## November 14, 1989

### board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors\
November 14, 1989\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2005

### Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

### THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

#### November 14, 1989

#### MEMORANDUM TO:

#### FROM:

#### SUBJECT:

The Board of Visitors met at 1:30 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda on November 14, 1989, in Open Session, with Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Rector, Charles L. Brown, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Jr., Edward E. Elson, Waller H. Horsley, Lemuel E. Lewis, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Wendelin L. White, and Jesse B. Wilson, III, present. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James L. Trinkle and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Also present was James J. Mingle.

In accordance with the Code of Virginia, the roll was called with respect to Executive Session items. (See Attachment I for responses).

### CHARGE FOR THE BOARD OF VISITORS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DEVELOPMENT

RESOLVED that the following charge to the Board of Visitors Special Committee on Development be and it is hereby approved:

While the development programs of the University of Virginia have been relatively successful in the past decade, there has been a problematic development in the last few years. It is the trend toward decentralization. Not only have parts of the University withdrawn from the center in order to conduct fundraising on their own, but some parts are competitive with one another. Even worse, there are some separate initiatives that are inconsistent with the University's own larger, long-term interest.

At President O'Neil's direction, an ad hoc committee of University officers has been working on a plan to restructure all development activity, thereby to assure coordination. It is anticipated that this committee's recommendations will be presented to the Board of Visitors promptly, for it is imperative that all of this be resolved prior to the selection of a new President of the University.

Because these are unusually consequential issues, and also because the proposed changes will, in some significant degree, modify established patterns for conducting fund-raising at UVA, it is desirable that a Special Committee of the Board of Visitors be appointed, in order to:

### ENDORSEMENT OF THE WOODROW WILSON COLLEGE PROPOSAL FOR NORTHERN VIRGINIA

Copies to:

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:02 p.m.

RCB:jb

### ATTACHMENT I

#### VOTE

| NAME                         | (yes or no) | COMMENTS |
|------------------------------|--------------|----------|
| Joshua P. Darden, Jr.       | yes          |          |
| John S. Battle, Jr.         | absent       |          |
| Charles L. Brown            | yes          |          |
| W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.      | absent       |          |
| Robert G. Butcher, Jr.      | yes          |          |
| William M. Camp, Jr.        | yes          |          |
| Mrs. George M. Cochran      | absent       |          |
| N. Thomas Connally           | yes          |          |
| Edward E. Elson             | yes          |          |
| Waller H. Horsley           | yes          |          |
| Lemuel E. Lewis             | yes          |          |
| Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie      | yes          |          |
| S. Buford Scott              | yes          |          |
| James L. Trinkle            | absent       |          |
| Jesse B. Wilson, III        | yes          |          |
| Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.      | absent       |          |

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on November 14, 1989, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an Executive Session. Members are required to certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia Law were discussed in closed session; and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were discussed or considered by the Board. \[In accordance with the law, any member of the Board who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".]

#### VOTE

| NAME                         | (yes or no) | COMMENTS |
|------------------------------|--------------|----------|
| Joshua P. Darden, Jr.       | yes          |          |
| John S. Battle, Jr.         | absent       |          |
| Charles L. Brown            | yes          |          |
| W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.      | absent       |          |
| Robert G. Butcher, Jr.      | yes          |          |
| William M. Camp, Jr.        | yes          |          |
| Mrs. George M. Cochran      | absent       |          |
| N. Thomas Connally           | yes          |          |
| Edward E. Elson             | yes          |          |
| Waller H. Horsley           | yes          |          |
| Lemuel E. Lewis             | yes          |          |
| Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie      | yes          |          |
| S. Buford Scott              | yes          |          |
| James L. Trinkle            | absent       |          |
| Jesse B. Wilson, III        | yes          |          |
| Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.      | absent       |          |
