Board of Visitors minutes (1990) March 30, 1990
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 30, 1990

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 30, 1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session on March 29, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Pro Tem Edward E. Elson, President Robert M. O'Neil, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Wendelin L. White, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Hugh P. Kelly, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 2:30 p.m., in Open Session on March 30, 1990, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President Robert M. O'Neil, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Wendelin L. White, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Hugh P. Kelly, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 26, 1990, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

RESOLUTION PROVIDING THAT THE BOARD'S STANDING COMMITTEES OPERATE AS THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE BOARD ON A TEMPORARY BASIS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced the newly appointed members of the Board; Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, Dr. J. Thomas Hulvey, Mr. Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Mr. Arnold H. Leon, Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., and Mr. Freddie W. Nicholas.

ELECTION OF MR. EDWARD E. ELSON AS RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors, and in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Edward E. Elson was unanimously elected as Rector of the University of Virginia for a four year term.

ELECTION OF MR. RAYMOND C. BICE, JR., AS SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., was elected Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years.

ELECTION OF MR. ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., was elected Assistant Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

In accordance with the 1985 Manual of the Board of Visitors and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-75, the following were elected to serve on the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors until the annual meeting in May 1990: Mr. Edward E. Elson, Chair, Dr. N. Thomas Connally, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, and Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

ELECTION OF JULIE G. LYNN AS NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER
------------------------------------------------------

On the motion of Mr. Jesse B. Wilson, III, Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Miss Julie G. Lynn as a non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for the period July 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991 as prescribed in Section 2.21 of The Manual.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEFINANCE COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ALUMNI AFFAIRS
-----------------------------------

The Rector announced the establishment of the Special Committee on Alumni Affairs for the purpose of ensuring that alumni activities maintain a signal place on the agenda of the Board of Visitors.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
-------------------------------------

The Rector announced the establishment of the Special Committee on External Affairs for the purpose of studying and assisting the University's external affairs and recommending to the Board ways to encourage an efficacious program.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
-----------------------------------------

The Rector announced the establishment of the Special Committee on Governmental Affairs for the purpose of assisting and encouraging the governmental relations of the University with commissions and executive, administrative and legislative bodies with whom the University interfaces and reporting to the Board that information necessary to ensure full Board participation.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON INTER-GROUP RELATIONS
------------------------------------------

The Rector announced the establishment of the Special Committee on Inter-Group Relations for the purpose of promoting inter-group relations to assure that the sense of community of which the University is so justly proud continues and to report to the Board suggestions to further encourage and enhance pluralism on the Grounds.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRING VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed the deep appreciation of the Board and the University to the following members of the Board whose terms ended on March 1, 1990: Mr. Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Rector, Mr. John S. Battle, Jr., Mr. Charles L. Brown, Mr. William M. Camp, Mrs. George M. Cochran, Mr. Lemuel E. Lewis and Mr. James L. Trinkle.

DISCUSSION OF BOARD MEETING SCHEDULES
-------------------------------------

The Rector said he would appoint a special committee to recommend possible changes in the scheduling of meetings. This committee will report its recommendations to the Board at the May 1990 meeting if they recommend any changes at all.

ELECTIONS
---------

Election of Part-Time Faculty
-----------------------------

Election of Non-Salaried Faculty
--------------------------------

Election of Clinical Faculty
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. KATHRYN L. WEISE
--------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

DELETION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MRS. BEVERLEY B. BUTLER
------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION TO THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH H. GIECK
----------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. ENRIQUE R. TORRE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. SERGIO CONETTI
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DELETION OF THE RESIGNATION OF DR. JAMES W. CRAIG AS ANNOUNCED TO THE BOARD ON OCTOBER 6, 1989
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the resignation of Dr. James W. Craig, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1989, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, be and it is hereby deleted. Dr. James Craig resigned from his administrative position as Associate Dean but not from his faculty position as Professor of Internal Medicine.

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MR. EKKEHARD SINN
------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEATH OF DR. LUCIEN J. RUBINSTEIN
---------------------------------

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ELSON PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
--------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LUCIEN CARR, III, PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RICHARD F. EDLICH PROFESSORSHIP IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS M. LINVILLE PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PERRE BOWEN PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CLASS OF 1963 RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CLASS OF 1948 PROFESSORSHIP IN SCHOLARLY RESEARCH IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported that construction projects valued at some $114 million are underway for the University Division. Roughly 25% of these funds are from State General Funds. Projects in the Hospital Division are valued at $230 million, 10% of which are from State General Funds. The Clinch Valley College Division construction projects are valued at $5.5 million - mostly all from State General Funds.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President reported that gifts to the College of Arts and Sciences have already exceeded four million dollars from private sources. He said that this is an exceptional achievement.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

President O'Neil reported that Higher Education (not exclusively this University) will undertake a number of studies. These studies include the study of Higher Education in Northern Virginia, increased flexibility in the State's two teaching hospitals, some interim measures for the financing of capital projects, the reduction of health care costs and some related issues. He said also, some increased attention to environmental concerns was requested. No action was sought on this report.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF BARNES VANZE & ASSOCIATES FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE ADDITION AND RENOVATION OF THE UNIVERSITY PRESS BEMISS HOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF NOMINATIONS OF MR. EDWARD E. ELSON, MRS. PATRICIA M. KLUGE, MR. CHARLES T. GILLET, MR. PETER HACKETT, AND MR. JOSEPH C. MILLER TO THE COLLEGE COUNCIL OF REGENT'S COLLEGE, LONDON
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISIONREGULAR SESSION:APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION (cont.)CONTINUING EDUCATION:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1989-90

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1990-91

Actual 1989-90

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1990-91

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools Full Time

$2,680

$258

9.6%

$2,938

$7,060

$1,048

14.8%

$8,108

Graduate Law

$2,680

$384

14.3%

$3,064

$7,060

$1,174

16.6%

$8,234

Medical Technology

$1,360

$128

9.4%

$1,488

$1,360

$128

9.4%

$1,488

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus. - MBA

$4,640

$368

7.9%

$5,008

$10,120

$1,498

14.8%

$11,618

Law - JD

$4,060

$354

8.7%

$4,414

$8,920

$1,134

12.7%

$10,054

Medicine - MD

$6,440

$488

7.6%

$6,928

$13,320

$1,408

10.6%

$14,728

Activity Fees

General-All Students

$28

\--

\--

$28

$28

\--

\--

$28

Architecture

$20

\--

\--

$20

$20

\--

\--

$20

Commerce

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Darden

$32

$23

71.9%

$55

$32

$23

71.9%

$55

Education

$4

\--

\--

$4

$4

\--

\--

$4

Engineering

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Law School

$28

\--

\--

$28

$28

\--

\--

$28

Medicine

$70

\--

\--

$70

$70

\--

\--

$70

Nursing

$10

\--

\--

$10

$10

\--

\--

$10

Residential College Programming Fee

$100

\--

\--

$100

$100

\--

\--

$100

Current 1989-90

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1990-91

Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester hour

Virginian

$88

$5

5.7%

$93

Non-Virginian

$104

$14

13.5%

$118

Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$88

$10

11.4%

$98

Non-Virginian

$104

$19

18.3%

$123

Special Students Registration through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per semester hour

Virginian

$120

$10

8.3%

$130

Non-Virginian

$336

$54

16.1%

$390

Masters Degree Programs Per semester hour

Virginian

$98

$25

25.5%

$123

Non-Virginian

$114

$34

29.8%

$148

Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour

Virginian

$132

\--

\--

$132

Non-Virginian

$298

\--

\--

$298

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

$10

\--

\--

$10

Late Registration Fee

$10

\--

\--

$10

Change of Course Fee

$10

\--

\--

$10

Transcript Fee

$2

\--

\--

$2

Late Exam Fee

$5

\--

\--

$5

Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost.

OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Vice President for Business and Finance.

CONTINUING EDUCATION: Current 1989-90 Amount of Increase Percent Increase Proposed 1990-91 Undergraduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester hour Virginian $88 $5 5.7% $93 Non-Virginian $104 $14 13.5% $118 Graduate (Non-Degree Programs) Per Semester Hour Virginian $88 $10 11.4% $98 Non-Virginian $104 $19 18.3% $123 Special Students Registration through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses Per semester hour Virginian $120 $10 8.3% $130 Non-Virginian $336 $54 16.1% $390 Masters Degree Programs Per semester hour Virginian $98 $25 25.5% $123 Non-Virginian $114 $34 29.8% $148 Graduate Televised Engineering Per Semester Hour Virginian $132 -- -- $132 Non-Virginian $298 -- -- $298 Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs $10 -- -- $10 Late Registration Fee $10 -- -- $10 Change of Course Fee $10 -- -- $10 Transcript Fee $2 -- -- $2 Late Exam Fee $5 -- -- $5 Other Miscellaneous Fees as established to recover expenses such as laboratory, materials, etc., on a basis of estimated cost. OTHER: Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Vice President for Business and Finance.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1989-90

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1990-91

Actual 1989-90

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1990-91

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$1,870

$186

9.9%

$2,056 \* \*Tuition $1,564 + Fees $492 = $2,056

$3,338

$378

11.3%

$3,716 \*\* \*\*Tuition $3,224 + Fees $492 = $3,716

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hrs per semester) Rate per semester hour

$60

$4

6.7%

$64

$120

$12

10.0%

$132

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$60

$4

6.7%

$64

$92

$4

4.3%

$96

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

$20

$2

10.0%

$22

$40

$6

15.0%

$46

Dormitory Rent

Dorms

$1,320

$80

6.1%

$1,400

$1,320

$80

6.1%

$1,400

Apt. House

$1,500

$90

6.0%

$1,590

$1,500

$90

6.0%

$1,590

Meal Plan

19 meals per week

$1,420

$80

5.6%

$1,500

$1,420

$80

5.6%

$1,500

Other Fees

Application Fee

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

$15

$0

0.0%

$15

Applied Music Fee

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

$120

$0

0.0%

$120

Student Teaching Fee

\--

\--

\--

$100

\--

\--

\--

$100

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404, and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

A registration fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. The graduation fee will be $40 per year.

Tuition $1,564 + Fees $492 = $2,056

Tuition $3,224 + Fees $492 = $3,716

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES FOR 1990-1991
--------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1989-90

Amount of Inc/(Decr)

Percent Inc/(Decr)

Proposed 1990-91

Pledged for Facilities - University Hall

$ 15.00

\--

\--

$ 15.00

University Transit

52.00

$4.00

7.7%

56.00

Auxiliary Services Fee (including debt service)

98.00

60.00

61.2%

158.00

Fringe Benefits

63.00

(63.00)

\--

\--

Athletics

88.00

10.00

11.4%

98.00

Student Health

163.00

13.00

8.0%

176.00

University Union

45.00

4.00

8.9%

49.00

University Union Programs

16.00

\--

\--

16.00

TOTAL

$ 540.00

$28.00

5.2%

$ 568.00

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 1990-1991
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1989-90

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1990-91

Dining Service Contract

7 Day (19 meals)

$1,518

$ 132

8.7%

$1,650

6 Meals per week\* \*Meal Plan to be Eliminated FY 90-91

664

\--

\--

\--

9 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

1,400

12 Meals per week\*

1,306

\--

\--

\--

15 Meals per week

1,428

172

12.0%

1,600

50 Meals per semester

\--

\--

\--

600

100 Meals per semester

\--

\--

\--

900

Residential College

7 Day (19 meals)

$1,668

$ 162

9.7%

$1,830

6 Meals per week\*

814

\--

\--

\--

9 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

1,490

12 Meals per week\*

1,456

\--

\--

\--

15 Meals per week

1,578

202

12.8%

1,780

Athletics

12 Meals per week\*

$1,392

\--

\--

\--

15 Meals per week

\--

\--

\--

$1,700

19 Meals per week

$1,604

$ 146

9.1%

1,750

French House

4 Meal Dinners

$ 578

62

10.7%

640

Meal Plan to be Eliminated FY 90-91

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1990-1991APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1990-91 (cont.)APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1990-91 (cont.)APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1990-91 (cont.)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Utilities Furnished by UVA

FACILITY

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1989-90 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS,E,O,C

$320

$26

8.12%

$346

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS,E,O,C

$380

$30

7.89%

$410

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS,C

$400

$32

8.00%

$432

E,O

Townhouses (10) 3BR

WS,C

$400

$32

8.00%

$432

E

Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1,1 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$310

$24

7.74%

$334

Apt. 2,3 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$345

$29

8.40%

$374

Apt. 3,1 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$310

$24

7.74%

$334

Apt. 4,2 Bedroom

WS,E,O,C

$320

$26

8.12%

$346

Monroe Lane

1 Bedroom (15)

WS,G,C

$280

$24

8.57%

$304

E

Efficiency (1)

WS,G,C

$240

$20

8.33%

$260

E

404 Monroe Lane (2BR)

WS,G,C

$330

$26

7.87%

$356

E

412 A Monroe Lane (2BR)

WS,G,C

$355

$29

8.17%

$384

E

412 B Monroe Lane (Eff)

WS,G,C

$240

$20

8.33%

$260

E

Snowden

Apt. 1 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$285

$25

8.77%

$310

E

Apt. 2 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$285

$25

8.77%

$310

E

Apt. 6 (Eff.)

WS,G,C

$240

$20

8.33%

$260

E

Apt. 101 (3BR)

WS,G,C

$420

$34

8.09%

$454

E

Apt. 103 (2BR)

WS,G,C

$355

$29

8.17%

$384

E

Apt. 201 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$285

$25

8.77%

$310

E

Apt. 202 (1BR)

WS,G,C

$285

$25

8.77%

$310

E

Apt. 203 (2BR)

WS,G,C

$355

$29

8.17%

$384

E

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS,C

$345

$29

8.40%

$374

E,O

Upper Alden (3BR)

WS,O,C

$380

$32

8.42%

$412

E

Lower Alden (2BR)

WS,O,C

$335

$27

8.05%

$362

E

South Cottage (3BR)

WS,C

$180

$16

8.88%

$196

E,O

Carrs Hill (2BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$340

$30

8.82%

$370

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)

WS,E,HP,C

$240

$20

8.33%

$260

Utilities Furnished by UVA

FACILITY

WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1989-90 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

\*\*Will be vacant during FY 1990-91 2400 Stadium Rd (4BR)

$450

\--

\--

\--

Upper Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$280

$24

8.57%

$304

Lower Mews (1BR)

WS,E,HP,C

$335

$29

8.65%

$364

Milton Airport (1BR)

$165

$15

9.09%

$180

WS,E

Monroe Hill Range (2BR)

WS,HP,C

$400

$32

8.00%

$432

E

Monroe Hill Apt. (2)+ +Rent to Student Housing

WS,HP,E,C

$340

$30

8.82%

$370

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS,C

$260

$20

7.69%

$280

E

Garage Apt. (2BR)

WS,E,O.C

$390

$32

8.20%

$422

Cash House (3BR)

WS,E,O.C

$410

$34

8.29%

$444

Birdwood House (4BR)

WS,C

$450

$36

8.00%

$486

E,O,G

Faulkner Property

Holly House (2BR)

WS,E,O,C

$330

$26

7.87%

$356

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS,E,O,C

$160

$20

12.50%

$180

Hedge House (2BR)

WS,C

$300

$24

8.00%

$324

E,O

Orchard House (5SRMS)

WS,E,O,C

$160

$20

12.50%

$180

Carriage House (4BR)

WS,C

$350

$30

8.57%

$380

E,O

118 Oakhurst-Upper (2BR)

WS,G,C

$345

$29

8.40%

$374

E

118 Oakhurst-Lower (2BR)

WS,G,C

$390

$32

8.20%

$422

E

409 Valley Road (2BR)

C

$330

$28

8.48%

$358

WS,E,O

411 Valley Road (2BR)

C

$330

$28

8.48%

$358

WS,E,O

503 Valley Road (1BR)

C

$270

$22

8.15%

$292

WS,E,O

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$360

$30

8.33%

$390

Apt. 12 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$360

$30

8.33%

$390

Apt. 14 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$360

$30

8.33%

$390

Apt. 15 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$360

$30

8.33%

$390

Apt. 21 (Eff)

WS,E,G,C

$270

$22

8.15%

$292

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$275

$23

8.36%

$298

Apt. 23 (Eff)

WS,R,G,C

$260

$20

7.69%

$280

Apt. 24 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$275

$23

8.36%

$298

Apt. 25 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Apt. 26 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Utilities Furnished by UVA

FACILITY

WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1989-90 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Apt. 27 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Apt. 28 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Apt. 31 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Apt. 32 (1BR)

WS,E,G,C

$280

$22

7.85%

$302

Apt. 33 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$310

$26

8.38%

$336

Apt. 34 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$310

$26

8.38%

$336

Apt. 35 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$310

$26

8.38%

$336

Apt. 36 (2BR)

WS,E,G,C

$310

$26

8.38%

$336

E. & G. Property

Montebello (3BR)

O

$410

$20

4.87%

$430

WS,E,G

Big Morea (4BR)

WS,E,O,C

$305

$15

4.91%

$320

Little Morea (1BR)

WS,E,O,C

$275

$13

4.72%

$288

Sunnyside (4BR)

O,C

$525

$25

4.76%

$550

WS,E

Hotel D (2BR)

WS,E,H

$260

$12

4.61%

$272

Monroe Hill House

WS,E,HP

$525

$25

4.76%

$550

Pavilions

Pavilion I

WS,HP,E

$505

$25

4.95%

$530

\*Pavilion II

WS,HP

$360

\--

\--

\--

E

Pavilion III

WS,HP,E

$505

$25

4.95%

$530

Pavilion IV

WS,HP

$360

$18

5.00%

$378

E

Pavilion V

WS,HP

$360

$18

5.00%

$378

E

\*Pavilion V Annex

\--

\--

\--

\--

Pavilion VI

WS,HP,E

\--

\--

\--

$530

Pavilion VIII Lower

WS,HP,E

$120

$36

30.00%

$156

Pavilion VIII Upper

WS,HP,E

$240

$84

35.00%

$324

Pavilion IX

WS,HP

$360

$18

5.00%

$378

E

Pavilion X

WS,HP

$360

$18

5.00%

$378

E

Blue Ridge Properties

++Facility has been removed from residential use. Bldg 913A (2/3 BR Apt)

WS,E,HP

$495

\--

\--

\--

Utilities Furnished by UVA

FACILITY

WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable)

Rents 1989-90 per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Blandy Farm

\*\*\*\*Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved. Curator's House

WS

$285

\--

\--

\--

E,O

Farmhouse

WS

$270

$10

3.70%

$280

E,O

Greenhouse

WS

$50

$5

10.00%

$55

E

Utilities Furnished by UVA FACILITY WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable) Rents 1989-90 per Month Amount of Increase Percent of Increase Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month Utilities Paid by Occupant \*\*Will be vacant during FY 1990-91 2400 Stadium Rd (4BR) $450 -- -- -- Upper Mews (1BR) WS,E,HP,C $280 $24 8.57% $304 Lower Mews (1BR) WS,E,HP,C $335 $29 8.65% $364 Milton Airport (1BR) $165 $15 9.09% $180 WS,E Monroe Hill Range (2BR) WS,HP,C $400 $32 8.00% $432 E Monroe Hill Apt. (2)+ +Rent to Student Housing WS,HP,E,C $340 $30 8.82% $370 Birdwood Properties Cottage (1BR) WS,C $260 $20 7.69% $280 E Garage Apt. (2BR) WS,E,O.C $390 $32 8.20% $422 Cash House (3BR) WS,E,O.C $410 $34 8.29% $444 Birdwood House (4BR) WS,C $450 $36 8.00% $486 E,O,G Faulkner Property Holly House (2BR) WS,E,O,C $330 $26 7.87% $356 Holly House Lower (1RM) WS,E,O,C $160 $20 12.50% $180 Hedge House (2BR) WS,C $300 $24 8.00% $324 E,O Orchard House (5SRMS) WS,E,O,C $160 $20 12.50% $180 Carriage House (4BR) WS,C $350 $30 8.57% $380 E,O 118 Oakhurst-Upper (2BR) WS,G,C $345 $29 8.40% $374 E 118 Oakhurst-Lower (2BR) WS,G,C $390 $32 8.20% $422 E 409 Valley Road (2BR) C $330 $28 8.48% $358 WS,E,O 411 Valley Road (2BR) C $330 $28 8.48% $358 WS,E,O 503 Valley Road (1BR) C $270 $22 8.15% $292 WS,E,O Faculty Apartments Apt. 11 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $360 $30 8.33% $390 Apt. 12 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $360 $30 8.33% $390 Apt. 14 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $360 $30 8.33% $390 Apt. 15 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $360 $30 8.33% $390 Apt. 21 (Eff) WS,E,G,C $270 $22 8.15% $292 Apt. 22 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $275 $23 8.36% $298 Apt. 23 (Eff) WS,R,G,C $260 $20 7.69% $280 Apt. 24 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $275 $23 8.36% $298 Apt. 25 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302 Apt. 26 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302

Will be vacant during FY 1990-91

Rent to Student Housing

Utilities Furnished by UVA FACILITY WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable) Rents 1989-90 per Month Amount of Increase Percent of Increase Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month Utilities Paid by Occupant Apt. 27 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302 Apt. 28 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302 Apt. 31 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302 Apt. 32 (1BR) WS,E,G,C $280 $22 7.85% $302 Apt. 33 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $310 $26 8.38% $336 Apt. 34 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $310 $26 8.38% $336 Apt. 35 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $310 $26 8.38% $336 Apt. 36 (2BR) WS,E,G,C $310 $26 8.38% $336 E. & G. Property Montebello (3BR) O $410 $20 4.87% $430 WS,E,G Big Morea (4BR) WS,E,O,C $305 $15 4.91% $320 Little Morea (1BR) WS,E,O,C $275 $13 4.72% $288 Sunnyside (4BR) O,C $525 $25 4.76% $550 WS,E Hotel D (2BR) WS,E,H $260 $12 4.61% $272 Monroe Hill House WS,E,HP $525 $25 4.76% $550 Pavilions Pavilion I WS,HP,E $505 $25 4.95% $530 \*Pavilion II WS,HP $360 -- -- -- E Pavilion III WS,HP,E $505 $25 4.95% $530 Pavilion IV WS,HP $360 $18 5.00% $378 E Pavilion V WS,HP $360 $18 5.00% $378 E \*Pavilion V Annex -- -- -- -- Pavilion VI WS,HP,E -- -- -- $530 Pavilion VIII Lower WS,HP,E $120 $36 30.00% $156 Pavilion VIII Upper WS,HP,E $240 $84 35.00% $324 Pavilion IX WS,HP $360 $18 5.00% $378 E Pavilion X WS,HP $360 $18 5.00% $378 E Blue Ridge Properties ++Facility has been removed from residential use. Bldg 913A (2/3 BR Apt) WS,E,HP $495 -- -- --

Facility has been removed from residential use.

Utilities Furnished by UVA FACILITY WS (Water,Sewer) E (Elect.) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heat Plant) C (TV Cable) Rents 1989-90 per Month Amount of Increase Percent of Increase Proposed Rents 1990-91 per Month Utilities Paid by Occupant Blandy Farm \*\*\*\*Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved. Curator's House WS $285 -- -- -- E,O Farmhouse WS $270 $10 3.70% $280 E,O Greenhouse WS $50 $5 10.00% $55 E

Agreement of service in lieu of rent has been approved.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOR 1990-1991
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Proposed Rents 1990-91 Per Month

Utilities Furnished By Clinch Valley College

Rents 1989-90 Per Month

Facility

WS (Water, Sewer) G (Gas)

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Houses (6)

WS

$336

$18

5.4%

$354

2 Bedroom Apt. (2)

WSG

$336

$18

5.4%

$354

1 Bedroom Apt. (2)

WSG

$306

$18

5.9%

$324

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION FOR 1990-1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1989-90 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1990-91 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amt

Interval

General Faculty (4) (4)The rank of Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

Professor

$42,800

$44,500

(2)(2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

35,200

36,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

28,600

29,800

(2)

1 year

Instructor

20,200

21,000

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis. (4)

Department Head

56,900

59,200

(2)

1 year

Professor

49,800

51,800

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

41,000

42,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

33,000

34,300

(2)

1 year

Instructor

25,800

26,800

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant

16,500

16,500

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

17,000

17,000

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist

26,700

27,800

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist

33,500

34,800

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist

51,400

53,400

(2)

1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

The rank of Lecturer is used for administrative faculty positions as well as instructional personnel whose assignment or status does not fit into the regular structure faculty rank. Salary levels will vary in accordance with level of responsibility and experience.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1989-90 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

1990-91 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amt

Interval

Rank

Professor

$32,000

$33,000

(2)(2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$27,500

$28,500

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$23,500

$24,500

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$20,000

$21,000

(2)

1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGY FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current Scale 1989-90

Proposed Scale 1990-91

Rank

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Professor and Department Head

$81,300

$198,400

$84,900

$205,900

Professor and Division Head

77,100

186,600

80,500

195,300

Professor

74,100

179,400

77,400

187,700

Associate Professor and Division Head

67,000

162,300

70,000

169,700

Associate Professor

64,400

155,900

67,300

163,100

Assistant Professor

57,000

138,000

59,500

144,400

Instructor

44,700

108,300

46,700

113,200

REPORT OF THE MEDICAL CENTER ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------------

Bad Debt

$ 1,822,507.36

Indigent Care

8,875,054.79

\---------------

$10,697,562.15

APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO THE COMPENSATION PLAN FOR RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGISTS IN THE RADIATION THERAPY AND DIAGNOSTIC DIVISIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF RADIOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF COMPENSATION PLAN FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS FOR 1990-1991
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

STATEMENT OF MR. GILBERT J. SULLIVAN, DIRECTOR OF ALUMNI ACTIVITIES OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Gilbert Sullivan said that the University of Virginia Alumni Association is 150 years old and that its activities have continuing efforts to raise funds for University purposes. He said a major present responsibility of the Association is the operation of the University of Virginia Fund, which raises about $12 million annually. Related activities are the phonathons, investment services and similar organizations.

Alumni records of 110,000 living alumni are maintained in a computerized system. He said the maintenance of the Jefferson Scholars Program and The Alumni News are also important activities.

He assured the Board that the Alumni Association stands ready to work with the Board of Visitors in every way including fundraising. He predicted that private gifts from alumni will total $50 million this year.

STATEMENT OF ATTORNEY GENERAL MARY SUE TERRY
--------------------------------------------

The Honorable Mary Sue Terry said she was delighted to be with us. She noted that the University is served by two attorneys, Mr. James Mingle and Mr. Larry White, and they both can look to the Attorney General's office in Richmond for a range of services. She pointed out that having a teaching hospital as a part of our organization presents special legal challenges.

She said she has been meeting with education attorneys, and that a level of expertise in these matters is developing.

She urged the Board to advise her of ways that the Office of the Attorney General can help the University or the Board. She concluded by saying that she was aware of the impact that the financial shortfall is having on the institutions in the Commonwealth.

The Rector thanked Attorney General Terry for being with us.

APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION TO LEASE LAND FOR OIL AND GAS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGEELECTIONS
------------------------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

RCB:jb

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

16

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

0

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

0

Meeting Date: March 29, 1990

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE AYES: 16 NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0 ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 29, 1990 - 9:05 a.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE (yes or no) COMMENTS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes N. Thomas Connally yes Hovey S. Dabney yes Edward E. Elson yes Waller H. Horsley yes J. Thomas Hulvey yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. yes S. Buford Scott yes Jesse B. Wilson, III yes Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. yes

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

16

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

0

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

0

Meeting Date: March 30, 1990

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of The Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE AYES: 16 NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\]

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 0 ABSENT DURING MEETING: 0

NAME

VOTE (yes or no)

COMMENTS

W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

N. Thomas Connally

yes

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

Edward E. Elson

yes

Waller H. Horsley

yes

J. Thomas Hulvey

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

yes

S. Buford Scott

yes

Jesse B. Wilson, III

yes

Thomas E. Worrell, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on March 30, 1990 - 2:15 p.m., a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE (yes or no) COMMENTS W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes N. Thomas Connally yes Hovey S. Dabney yes Edward E. Elson yes Waller H. Horsley yes J. Thomas Hulvey yes Evans B. Jessee yes Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge yes Arnold H. Leon yes Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr. yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr. yes S. Buford Scott yes Jesse B. Wilson, III yes Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. yes

ATTACHMENT A = Amendment to the Compensation Plan for Radiologic Technologists in the Radiation Therapy and and Diagnostic Divisions of the Department of Radiology UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Department of Personnel Administration Carruthers Hall 1001 North Emmet Street P.O. Box 9007 Charlottesville. Va. 22906-9007TO:FROM:DATE:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Vice President for Health Sciences and the Vice President for Business and Finance are authorized to amend the compensation for individual Health Care Professional classes subject to approval by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors, with increases to the personnel budget of the hospital of no more than $200,000.

The following is a proposal outlining the actions necessary to alleviate major staffing shortages in the Radiation Therapy and Diagnostic Divisions of the Department of Radiology.

Conventional recruiting and retention practices have not alleviated the problem, thus some non-conventional interventions must be considered or these divisions will be unable to render appropriate and timely patient care.

ANNUALIZED COST: $71,000. See attached for more details.

An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer

ISSUE: RECRUITMENT OF RADIOLOGY THERAPY TECHNOLOGISTSPROPOSED SOLUTION:ISSUE: RETENTION OF EXISTING RADIATION THERAPY TECHNOLOGISTSPROPOSED SOLUTION:ISSUE: STAFFING EVENING AND NIGHT SHIFTS IN THE DIAGNOSTIC DIVISIONPROPOSED SOLUTION:IMPLEMENTATION COSTS(1) RECRUITMENT INCENTIVES OR BONUSES FOR CURRENT RADIATION THERAPY TECHNOLOGIST STUDENTS(2) 6.% INCREASE APPLIED TO:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OLD RATES

PROPOSED RATES

Class

Min

Max

Min

Max

Rad.Therapy Tech

22,370

30,557

23,712

32,390

Rad.Therapy Tech Sr.

24,458

33,407

25,925

35,411

Rad.Dosimetrist

24,458

33,407

25,925

35,411

Rad.Ther.Asst.Chief

26,745

36,517

28,350

38,708

Rad.Therapy Chief

29,230

39,935

30,984

42,331

Annualized Cost = $25,027.00 (Includes salary plus fringe benefits)

SHIFT

OLD RATES

NEW RATES

week day evening

1.25

2.25

week day night

1.50

2.50

weekend day

.75

1.75

weekend evening

1.75

2.75

weekend night

2.25

3.25

Annualized cost = $38,000

Recent turnover of Radiation Therapy Technologists has left the Division understaffed by 33%. Three of nine staff technologist positions are currently vacant. Filling these vacancies poses a dilemma in that a severe nationwide shortage exists, precluding effective recruitment of experienced Radiation Therapy Technologists. Repeated recruiting efforts have not been successful. The more promising pool of Radiation Therapy Technologists exists within Radiology schools, one of which is in session at the University of Virginia. As graduation approaches, these UVa-trained Radiation Therapy Technologists will be approached by various medical centers, who may be in a position to offer higher starting salaries or recruiting bonuses.

Most recruiting bonuses are paid at or after employment commences. We are recommending that we secure a commitment from our students before other offers are presented, by offering our four students a recruiting incentive of $2,000 each, payable immediately, in exchange for a written commitment that each will work for UVa for one year, commencing no later than September 1, 1990. Further, as it is anticipated that shortages may exist in other areas of Radiology, a lesser recruiting bonus of $1,000 should be offered to other students, enrolled in our school, for a similar one year commitment. We believe that by providing students the recruiting incentive immediately, we will accelerate the conventional recruiting period and beat our competition.

Plans are underway to redesign the stipend-scholarship employment provisions and requirements for future students who are enrolled in our medical center based schools.

Labor market survey data from our Fall 1989 survey indicate that for Radiation Therapy Technologists, UVa's ranges trail the market by 9% at the minimum and by 13% at the maximum, with average salaries down by over 6%.

To retain the present staff, it is recommended that they be given an increase of 6.0% effective February 1, 1990

A major issue of dissatisfaction in the Diagnostic Division including CT Scan and MRI, is that of the technologists having to rotate shifts. Year to date, 8 vacancies have occurred, reportedly due largely to the dissatisfaction of rotating shifts.

To resolve the issue and prevent future turnover, it is recommended that the practice of rotating shifts be abolished, and that permanent shift assignments be made. As an incentive for Diagnostic Technologists, including CT Scan and MRI, to work evening and night shifts, it is recommended that an extra $1.00 per hour shift differential be added to existing shift differential rates. A $1.00 add-on was successful previously in Nursing when the need arose to encourage off-shift work.

ATTACHMENT B HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL CLASSIFICATION/COMPENSATION STRUCTURE July 1, 1990HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL CLASSIFICATION/COMPENSATION STRUCTURE July 1, 1990HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL CLASSIFICATION/COMPENSATION STRUCTURE July 1, 1990
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CLASS TITLE

GRADE

RANGE MINIMUM

MAXIMUM

MARKET DIFFERENTIAL

Anesthetist

17

42994

65645

3.0%

Anesthetist Asst Head

18

47000

71762

3.0%

Anesthetist Head

18

47000

71762

3.0%

Audiologist

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Audiologist Supervisor

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Bone Marrow Trans Tech

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Bone Marrow Trans Tech Sr

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Cardiac Cath Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Cardiac Cath Tech Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Cast Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Cert Nurse Practitioner

13

30105

45965

1.0%

Cert Nurse Practitioner Sr

14

32910

50248

1.0%

Clinical Perfusionist

0

0

85000

0.0%

Clinical Perfusionist

0

0

80000

0.0%

Clinical Social Work Supv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Clinical Social Worker

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Clinical Social Worker Sr

10

23044

35184

3.0%

CV Monitor Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

CV Monitor Tech Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

CV Monitor Tech Supv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Dental Hygienist

9

21079

32185

3.0%

EEG Tech

6

16135

24636

3.0%

EEG Tech Supv

8

19283

29441

3.0%

EKG Supv

6

16135

24636

3.0%

EKG Tech

4

13502

20615

3.0%

Emer Med Tech Spec

7

17639

26932

3.0%

Emer Med Tech Sr

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Epidemiology Tech Adv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Epidemiology Tech Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Laboratory Specialist

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Laboratory Specialist Adv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Laboratory Specialist Mgr

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Laboratory Specialist Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Med Tech

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Med Tech Lab Admn

15

35977

54930

3.0%

Med Tech Mgr

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Med Tech Sr

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Med Tech Supv

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Nutrition Program Dir

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Nutritionist Specialist

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Nutritionist Specialist Sr

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Occupational Ther Asst

6

16135

24636

3.0%

Occupational Therapist

11

25191

38463

5.0%

Occupational Therapist Sr

12

27538

42047

5.0%

Occupational Therapy Dir

15

35977

54930

3.0%

Occupational Therapy Supv

13

30105

45965

5.0%

Operating Room Tech

5

14760

22536

3.0%

Organ Transplant Coordinator

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Pain Mgmt Med Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Pharmacist

14

32910

50248

3.0%

CLASS TITLE

GRADE

RANGE MINIMUM

MAXIMUM

MARKET DIFFERENTIAL

Pharmacist Supv

16

39329

60049

3.0%

Pharmacy Assistant Director

17

42994

65645

3.0%

Pharmacy Senior

15

35977

54930

3.0%

Physical Therapist

11

25191

38463

6.0%

Physical Therapist Asst

6

16135

24636

3.0%

Physical Therapist Sr

12

27538

42047

6.0%

Physical Therapy Asst Dir

14

32910

50248

3.0%

Physical Therapy Director

15

35977

54930

3.0%

Physical Therapy Supv

13

30105

45965

6.0%

Physician's Assistant

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Practical Nurse

5

14760

22536

3.0%

Practical Nurse Sr

6

16135

24636

3.0%

Psychologist

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Psychologist Sr

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Pulmonary Lab Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Pulmonary Lab Tech Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Pulmonary Lab Tech Supv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Rad Dosimetrist-RT

11

25191

38463

9.1%

Rad Educ Asst Dir

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Engineering Spec

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-CT

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-Diag

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-MRI

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-NM

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-RT

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-SP

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Asst Chief-US

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Rad Tech Chief-CT

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Rad Tech Chief-Diag

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Rad Tech Chief-NM

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Rad Tech Chief-RT

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Rad Tech Chief-SP

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-CT

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-Diag

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-MRI

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-NM

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-RT

11

25191

38463

9.1%

Rad Tech Sr-SP

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Rad Tech Sr-US

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-CT

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-Diag

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-MRI

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-NM

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-RT

10

23044

35184

9.1%

Rad Tech Staff-SP

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Staff-US

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Rad Tech Sup-Nuclear

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Radiology Education Dir

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Radiology Maintenance Supv

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Radiology Manager

14

32910

50248

3.0%

CLASS TITLE

GRADE

RANGE MINIMUM

MAXIMUM

MARKET DIFFERENTIAL

Radiology Physics Spec Advanc

13

30105

45965

3.0%

Radiology Physics Spec Sr

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Radiology School Director

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Recreational Therapist

7

17639

26932

3.0%

Recreational Therapist Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Reg Nurse Clin A

11

25191

38463

6.0%

Reg Nurse Clin A (InPat)

11

25191

38463

8.5%

Reg Nurse Clin A (OutPat)

11

25191

38463

1.0%

Reg Nurse Clin B

12

27538

42047

6.0%

Reg Nurse Clin B (InPat)

12

27538

42047

8.5%

Reg Nurse Clin B (OutPat)

12

27538

42047

1.0%

Reg Nurse Coord (InPat)

13

30105

45965

8.5%

Reg Nurse Coord (OutPat)

13

30105

45965

1.0%

Reg Nurse Mgr (InPat)

15

35977

54930

8.5%

Reg Nurse Mgr (OutPat)

15

35977

54930

1.0%

Registered Nurse

10

23044

35184

6.0%

Registered Nurse Coord

13

30105

45965

6.0%

Registered Nurse (InPat)

10

23044

35184

8.5%

Registered Nurse (OutPat)

10

23044

35184

1.0%

Renal Dialysis Tech

8

19283

29441

3.0%

Renal Dialysis Tech Sr

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Renal Dialysis Tech Supv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Respiratory Therapist

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Respiratory Therapist Sr

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Respiratory Therapy Asst Dir

12

27538

42047

3.0%

Respiratory Therapy Supv

11

25191

38463

3.0%

Respiratory Therapy Tech

6

16135

24636

3.0%

Speech Pathologist

10

23044

35184

3.0%

Speech Pathologist Supv

11

25191

33463

3.0%

UVA Pool Reg Nurse

0

0.0%

Venipuncture Manager

9

21079

32185

3.0%

Venipuncture Tech

5

14760

22536

3.0%

Venipuncture Tech Supv

8

19283

29441

3.0%

CLASS TITLE GRADE RANGE MINIMUM MAXIMUM MARKET DIFFERENTIAL Anesthetist 17 42994 65645 3.0% Anesthetist Asst Head 18 47000 71762 3.0% Anesthetist Head 18 47000 71762 3.0% Audiologist 10 23044 35184 3.0% Audiologist Supervisor 11 25191 38463 3.0% Bone Marrow Trans Tech 9 21079 32185 3.0% Bone Marrow Trans Tech Sr 11 25191 38463 3.0% Cardiac Cath Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% Cardiac Cath Tech Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Cast Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% Cert Nurse Practitioner 13 30105 45965 1.0% Cert Nurse Practitioner Sr 14 32910 50248 1.0% Clinical Perfusionist 0 0 85000 0.0% Clinical Perfusionist 0 0 80000 0.0% Clinical Social Work Supv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Clinical Social Worker 8 19283 29441 3.0% Clinical Social Worker Sr 10 23044 35184 3.0% CV Monitor Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% CV Monitor Tech Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% CV Monitor Tech Supv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Dental Hygienist 9 21079 32185 3.0% EEG Tech 6 16135 24636 3.0% EEG Tech Supv 8 19283 29441 3.0% EKG Supv 6 16135 24636 3.0% EKG Tech 4 13502 20615 3.0% Emer Med Tech Spec 7 17639 26932 3.0% Emer Med Tech Sr 8 19283 29441 3.0% Epidemiology Tech Adv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Epidemiology Tech Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Laboratory Specialist 8 19283 29441 3.0% Laboratory Specialist Adv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Laboratory Specialist Mgr 13 30105 45965 3.0% Laboratory Specialist Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Med Tech 9 21079 32185 3.0% Med Tech Lab Admn 15 35977 54930 3.0% Med Tech Mgr 13 30105 45965 3.0% Med Tech Sr 11 25191 38463 3.0% Med Tech Supv 12 27538 42047 3.0% Nutrition Program Dir 13 30105 45965 3.0% Nutritionist Specialist 10 23044 35184 3.0% Nutritionist Specialist Sr 12 27538 42047 3.0% Occupational Ther Asst 6 16135 24636 3.0% Occupational Therapist 11 25191 38463 5.0% Occupational Therapist Sr 12 27538 42047 5.0% Occupational Therapy Dir 15 35977 54930 3.0% Occupational Therapy Supv 13 30105 45965 5.0% Operating Room Tech 5 14760 22536 3.0% Organ Transplant Coordinator 9 21079 32185 3.0% Pain Mgmt Med Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% Pharmacist 14 32910 50248 3.0%

CLASS TITLE GRADE RANGE MINIMUM MAXIMUM MARKET DIFFERENTIAL Pharmacist Supv 16 39329 60049 3.0% Pharmacy Assistant Director 17 42994 65645 3.0% Pharmacy Senior 15 35977 54930 3.0% Physical Therapist 11 25191 38463 6.0% Physical Therapist Asst 6 16135 24636 3.0% Physical Therapist Sr 12 27538 42047 6.0% Physical Therapy Asst Dir 14 32910 50248 3.0% Physical Therapy Director 15 35977 54930 3.0% Physical Therapy Supv 13 30105 45965 6.0% Physician's Assistant 12 27538 42047 3.0% Practical Nurse 5 14760 22536 3.0% Practical Nurse Sr 6 16135 24636 3.0% Psychologist 8 19283 29441 3.0% Psychologist Sr 10 23044 35184 3.0% Pulmonary Lab Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% Pulmonary Lab Tech Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Pulmonary Lab Tech Supv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Rad Dosimetrist-RT 11 25191 38463 9.1% Rad Educ Asst Dir 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Engineering Spec 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-CT 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-Diag 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-MRI 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-NM 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-RT 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-SP 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Asst Chief-US 12 27538 42047 3.0% Rad Tech Chief-CT 13 30105 45965 3.0% Rad Tech Chief-Diag 13 30105 45965 3.0% Rad Tech Chief-NM 13 30105 45965 3.0% Rad Tech Chief-RT 13 30105 45965 3.0% Rad Tech Chief-SP 13 30105 45965 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-CT 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-Diag 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-MRI 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-NM 11 25191 38463 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-RT 11 25191 38463 9.1% Rad Tech Sr-SP 11 25191 38463 3.0% Rad Tech Sr-US 11 25191 38463 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-CT 9 21079 32185 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-Diag 9 21079 32185 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-MRI 9 21079 32185 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-NM 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-RT 10 23044 35184 9.1% Rad Tech Staff-SP 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Staff-US 10 23044 35184 3.0% Rad Tech Sup-Nuclear 12 27538 42047 3.0% Radiology Education Dir 13 30105 45965 3.0% Radiology Maintenance Supv 12 27538 42047 3.0% Radiology Manager 14 32910 50248 3.0%

CLASS TITLE GRADE RANGE MINIMUM MAXIMUM MARKET DIFFERENTIAL Radiology Physics Spec Advanc 13 30105 45965 3.0% Radiology Physics Spec Sr 10 23044 35184 3.0% Radiology School Director 12 27538 42047 3.0% Recreational Therapist 7 17639 26932 3.0% Recreational Therapist Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Reg Nurse Clin A 11 25191 38463 6.0% Reg Nurse Clin A (InPat) 11 25191 38463 8.5% Reg Nurse Clin A (OutPat) 11 25191 38463 1.0% Reg Nurse Clin B 12 27538 42047 6.0% Reg Nurse Clin B (InPat) 12 27538 42047 8.5% Reg Nurse Clin B (OutPat) 12 27538 42047 1.0% Reg Nurse Coord (InPat) 13 30105 45965 8.5% Reg Nurse Coord (OutPat) 13 30105 45965 1.0% Reg Nurse Mgr (InPat) 15 35977 54930 8.5% Reg Nurse Mgr (OutPat) 15 35977 54930 1.0% Registered Nurse 10 23044 35184 6.0% Registered Nurse Coord 13 30105 45965 6.0% Registered Nurse (InPat) 10 23044 35184 8.5% Registered Nurse (OutPat) 10 23044 35184 1.0% Renal Dialysis Tech 8 19283 29441 3.0% Renal Dialysis Tech Sr 9 21079 32185 3.0% Renal Dialysis Tech Supv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Respiratory Therapist 9 21079 32185 3.0% Respiratory Therapist Sr 10 23044 35184 3.0% Respiratory Therapy Asst Dir 12 27538 42047 3.0% Respiratory Therapy Supv 11 25191 38463 3.0% Respiratory Therapy Tech 6 16135 24636 3.0% Speech Pathologist 10 23044 35184 3.0% Speech Pathologist Supv 11 25191 33463 3.0% UVA Pool Reg Nurse 0 0.0% Venipuncture Manager 9 21079 32185 3.0% Venipuncture Tech 5 14760 22536 3.0% Venipuncture Tech Supv 8 19283 29441 3.0%

Personnel Administration 3/14/90