<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1991)

## October 4, 1991

### Board of Visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 4, 1991

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

### October 4, 1991

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, October 3, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Don E. Detmer, Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:35 p.m., in Open Session, on Friday, October 4, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Adam S. Arthur, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

The Rector asked the President to give an overview of the matters to be considered at the October meeting of the Board of Visitors.

## MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present:

(a) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of The Code of Virginia.

(b) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, and for the purpose of considering the evaluation of certain departments, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(1) of The Code of Virginia.

(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University's possible investment of certain endowment funds in a particular Venture Capital Fund, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(6) of The Code of Virginia.

(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the University's acquisition, financing and use of an improved property at 914-918 Emmet Street, also known as the "Michie Buildings", as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(3) of The Code of Virginia.

(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 A.(7) of The Code of Virginia.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:45 p.m.

## ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Timothy D. Averill as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Beth A. Bailey as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.

Mr. Peter S. Baker as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.

Mr. Robert J. Beck as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Terry Belanger as University Professor, effective July 1, 1992.

Mr. David J. Boling as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

Dr. John M. Campbell as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.

Dr. Alan C. Dalkin as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Russell H. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Dr. Larry G. Dennis as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.

Dr. Allen D. Everett as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John Farrenkopf as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Susan T. Firkaly as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, Department of Student Health, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Jorge A. Flores as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Patricia L. Foley as Instructor in Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. David A. Fryburg as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Federico Gonzalez-Fernandez as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Martha W. Habash as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period April 16, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Mr. Daniel J. Haisenleder as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Susan G. Harris as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.

Ms. Doris M. Haverstick as Instructor in Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Mayhugh H. Horne, III as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. John E. Humphries as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.

Dr. Ismail H. Ihmeidan as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John Z. Imbrie as Professor of Mathematics, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Michael B. Ishitani as Instructor in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. James M. Jaeger as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Diane M. Juffras as Lecturer in Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Claire N. Kaplan as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 12, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Mr. Stephen A. Kimata as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

Ms. Suzette M. Kimball as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Carl R. Knospe as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Marie-Agnes S. Krogstad as Instructor in French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Reneo Lukic as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Mary F. Marshall as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992.

Dr. Alan H. Matsumoto as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 15, 1991.

Ms. Yuko C. Nakahama as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Kathryn B. Nesbitt as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Mark D. Okusa as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Jayashree S. Parekh as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Thomas W. Payne, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.

Mr. Todd E. Peterson as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Barbara T. Post as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Timothy S. Prinz as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. James F. Reibel as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Carl Roskott as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Mark M. Schimmenti as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Theresa Schlager as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Anne J. Schutte as Professor of History, effective September 1, 1992.

Mr. James H. Scott, III as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 16, 1991.

Mr. John R. Shepherd as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective January 16, 1992.

Mr. Kenneth E. Sinarski as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

Dr. Craig L. Slingluff as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William J. Stauff as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1994.

Ms. Linda A. Swank as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert D. Sweeney as Lecturer, General Faculty, for five years, effective August 1, 1991.

Ms. Yoshiko Tahara as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Richard A. Tomasulo as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.

Mr. Raymond M. Tuenge as Lecturer in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 13, 1991.

Dr. Kenneth S. Tung as Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Peter D. Waldman as Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1992.

Ms. Patricia A. Wattenmaker as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Joan C. Williams as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1992.

Dr. Michael T. Zagardo as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

## ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY

## ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY

## ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY

## ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholder(s)

Dr. Eugene J. Barrett as Madge M. Jones Professor of Diabetes and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Thomas J. Braciale as Beirne B. Carter Professor of Immunology and Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Richard F. DeMong as Ramon W. Breeden, Sr., Research Professor of Commerce, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Ms. Merrill Elam as Edmund Shureman Campbell Professor of Architecture, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991.

Ms. Marion R. Johnson as Madge M. Jones Professor of Nursing, for the period August 15, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Ms. Connie L. Juel as Thomas G. Jewell Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch as John C. Coleman Professor of English, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Herwig M. Langohr as Dale S. Coenen Visiting Professor of Free Enterprise, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Gianfranco Poggi as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert E. Spekman as Frank Talbott, Jr., Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert A. Strong as Compton Visiting Associate Professor of World Politics at the White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William J. Stuntz as E. James Kelly, Jr., Research Professor of Law, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert I. Webb as Ramon W. Breeden, Sr., Research Professor of Commerce, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

(b) Re-Election of Chairholder(s)

Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as John A. Ewald, Jr. Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991.

(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)

Mr. Jeffrey O'Connell, Samuel H. McCoy, II, Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to be visiting professor at New York Law School.

(d) Change of Title of Chairholder(s)

Mr. Edward W. Davis from Oliver Wight Professor of Business Administration to Oliver Wight Professor of Business Administration and Isidore Horween Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson from Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Chair in Professional Accounting to C. Coleman McGehee Eminent Scholars Research Professor of Banking and Commerce and Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Chair in Professional Accounting, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Dr. R. Scott Jones from Stephen H. Watts Professor of Surgery to S. Hurt Watts Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1991.

(e) Special Salary Action of Chairholder(s)

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED

(f) Retirement of Chairholder(s)

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Gibson has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1955.

(g) Re-appointment of Chairholder(s)

Mr. William J. Kehoe as Associate Dean, School of Commerce, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

## RE-ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

Ms. Mary P. Abouzeid as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Ralph D. Alley as Visiting Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Sally A. Amero as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Mr. Simon P. Anderson as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Brian D. Andrews as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. John T. Ashley as Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.

Dr. Christopher M. Asplin as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Arlene Aveno as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Ms. Lynn A. Baker as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Jack W. Barber as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Michael Bowermaster as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Robert J. Boyle as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Mark S. Braiman as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Erich E. Brumbaugh as Visiting Associate Professor of Biochemistry, for the period June 1, 1991 through August 15, 1991.

Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns as Research Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert Burnett as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Edwin T. Burton as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Xiong Cai as Visiting Scholar in Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Dr. Wayne S. Cail as Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William E. Carter, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Don A. Christensen as Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Jan M. Christoph as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Julia A. Clancy-Smith as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Michael T. Clayton as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Carl H. Cofer as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. George B. Craddock, Jr. as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Leland L. Cross as Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Harold E. Crow as Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Edward J. Cukauskas as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Joseph R. Dane as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Varsha J. Desai as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Nancy L. Desmond as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert Diamond as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Jacques E. Dion as Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 15, 1991.

Dr. Vinko V. Dolenc as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Patillo E. Donald as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective June 1, 1991.

Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Kemal H. Elbirlik as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Sharon A. Esau as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Amando V. Esguerra as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Karl Eurenius as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Murray H. Finley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Ronald D. Fischer as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Tor Fjeldly as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective August 16, 1991.

Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher as Visiting Scholar in Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Patrick C. Fowler as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Rachel D. Fowlkes as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert G. Frankis, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.

Ms. Tanya Furman as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Glenn A. Gaesser as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Spencer B. Gay as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Bruce D. Gaylinn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period May 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Mr. Bela Geczy, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.

Mr. Vladimir G. Gelnovatch as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Deborah A. Gideon as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Eliezer Gileadi as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, part time, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. George T. Gillies as Research Associate Professor of Engineering Physics and Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Gerhard Glomm as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Pearl S. Gray as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993.

Mr. Charles F. Gressard as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Clarice P. Gressard as Assistant Professor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Susan J. Grossman as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Sandra L. Gubin as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Mary A. Gunter as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Margaret E. Gutgesell as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Robin J. Hamill as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Kim W. Hamlett as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Marie H. Hanigan as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William K. Harper as Professor of Business Administration, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Mark L. Hartman as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John F. Hawley as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. J. Ronald Heller as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Randy A. Hock as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Annelle V. Hodges as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Ms. Elizabeth J. Hrncir as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Visiting Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Anne W. Humphries as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Frank P. Hunter as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. David H. Ibbeken as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Ali Iranmanesh as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Lynn A. Isabella as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Rajiv Jain as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Ananda R. Jayaweera as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Ms. Valerie S. King as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Michael T. Kinter as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Mable B. Kinzie as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Andra L. Larson as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Catherine A. Leslie as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Arthur W. Lichtenberger as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Rebecca J. Lindsay as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Paul A. Lombardo as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Ralph A. Lowry as Professor of Engineering and Applied Science, part time, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Ms. Kathleen B. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi as Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.

Ms. Barbara J. Mann as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Andrew B. Martof as Associate Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Paul G. Matherne as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert E. Matson as Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Takamichi Matsuki as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period August 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.

Dr. Daniel F. McCarter as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Patrick J. McCarthy as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Patrick J. Michaels as Research Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Janet J. Michie as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Susan L. Mintz as Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. W. Edmund Moomaw as Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Rachel Most as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. John P. Mugler, III as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John F. O'Bryant as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Justine E. Owens as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period August 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Ms. Sonia Pearson-White as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective August 1, 1991.

Dr. John W. Pendleton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Martin T. Phillips as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John R. Redick as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Karen S. Rheuban as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Dana S. Richards as Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Hans O. Riddervold as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Arie M. Rijke as Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Joel Rini as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Alfredo H. Rosas-Peniche as Visiting Scholar in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Gordon S. Rule as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective June 1, 1991.

Ms. Beverly H. Runge as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Douglas C. Russell as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Thomas V. Ryan as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Christopher F. Sacchi as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William J. Sacco as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Cynthia W. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Ian J. Sarembock as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Jerzy Sarosiek as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Jon T. Saunders as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Worthington G. Schenk, III as Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. William P. Schofield as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Jorge E. Secada as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. John B. Selby as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John D. Shannon as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Robert B. Sharp as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. John T. Sigmon as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Thomas M. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.

Ms. Avril V. Somlyo as Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Thomas J. Spicuzza as Assistant Professor of Neurology, part time, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Douglas R. Spitz as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Richard B. Sporik as Visiting Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period April 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period August 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Dr. Aubrey L. Stafford as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. William D. Steers as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Michael A. Stern as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Joseph A. Stirt as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Ruth L. Stornetta as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Gail W. Sullivan as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Patricia A. Sullivan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Janice F. Sultenfuss as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective May 1, 1991.

Mr. Anil K. Suri as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for the period July 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Dr. Lawrence H. Sutker as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Kuldeep Teja as Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Mano J. Thubrikar as Research Associate Professor of Surgery, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Enrique R. Torre as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for the period June 16, 1991 through July 15, 1992.

Mr. Rafael Triana as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, part time, for the period May 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Mr. Fred Viebahn as Scholar in Residence in English, for two years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Diane E. Wakat as Associate Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Janet I. Warren as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Toni G. Wegner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Margot L. White as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 15, 1992.

Dr. Wayne H. Wilson as Associate Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Oibim Yang as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for the period August 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Dr. Tatsuo Yoneyama as Associate Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Laszlo Zaborszky as Research Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for the period July 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991.

## PROMOTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:

Mr. George L. Cahen from Associate Professor of Engineering Education and Materials Science, General Faculty to Professor of Engineering Education and Materials Science, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Thomas W. Crowe from Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Todd P. Greenwald from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Demetrios A. Julius from Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period July 1, 1991 through September 30, 1992.

Mr. David B. Mattern from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Yvonne G. Newberry from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert C. Pianta from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Louis J. Schott from Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

## LEAVES OF ABSENCE

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

Ms. Kathleen M. Balutansky, Assistant Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Richard B. Barnett, Associate Professor of History, without pay, for the period January 16, 1992 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Reda Bensmaia, Associate Professor of French, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to be visiting professor at Brown University.

Mr. Robert P. Cook, Associate Professor of Computer Science, without pay, for the period August 1, 1991 through July 31, 1992, to be associated with Microsoft Corporation for this period.

Ms. Alice H. Cooper, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Ms. Cora Diamond, Professor of Philosophy, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to be visiting professor at Princeton University.

Mr. Robert E. Emery, Associate Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Charles M. Engel, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Robert R. Fair, Professor of Business Administration, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

Mr. Michael S. Fenster, Instructor in Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period February 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991, because of insufficient research funds.

Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, with pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through November 30, 1991, for medical reasons.

Mr. Don Fullerton, Professor of Economics, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Richard Handler, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research.

Dr. J. Owen Hendley, Professor of Pediatrics, with partial pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992, for educational purposes.

Mr. E. Donald Hirsch, Jr., Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, to do research.

Ms. Emily E. Lape, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 12, 1991, for professional purposes.

Ms. Emily E. Lape, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty and Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, without pay, for the period August 19, 1991 through August 23, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Suzanne Louis, Instructor, General Faculty, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 11, 1992, to complete a Masters degree.

Ms. Barbara J. Mann, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Janet M. Pearlberg, Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, without pay, for the period June 10, 1991 through July 7, 1991, for educational purposes.

Mr. Terrance W. Pratt, Research Professor of Computer Science, without pay, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Eric R. Predo, Associate Professor of Education, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Mr. Theodore W. Rall, Professor of Pharmacology, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao, Professor of Religious Studies, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 16, 1992, to work on an encyclopedia.

Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, with partial pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through May 31, 1991, because of insufficient grant funds.

Ms. Kathrine M. Reed, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period June 10, 1991 through June 14, 1991, for personal reasons.

Mr. John T. Sigmon, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to be consultant to the United States House of Representatives Committee on Science, Space and Technology.

Mr. S. Fred Singer, Research Professor of Environmental Science, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, for personal reasons.

Ms. V. Shamim Sisson, Lecturer, General Faculty, without pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991, for agency convenience.

Mr. Jonathan S. Skinner, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Ms. Patricia A. Sullivan, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991, to accept a Virginia Foundation for Humanities fellowship.

Dr. Dorothy G. Tompkins, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, part time, without pay, for the period May 1, 1991 through October 31, 1991, for medical reasons.

Ms. Jeanne M. Toungara, Assistant Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

Dr. Maryanne D. Williams, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, without pay, for the period June 3, 1991 through June 11, 1991, for personal reasons.

Mr. Melvin N. Wilson, Associate Professor of Psychology, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to do research.

## CHANGES OF TITLE

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

Dr. Richard M. Carpenter from Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine to Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Marcia D. Finney from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Joanne M. Herbert from Assistant Professor of Education to Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Barbara A. Hobbs from Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine to Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1991.

Mr. W. Gilbert O'Neal from Instructor of Civil Engineering to Lecturer in Civil Engineering, for one semester, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Emilie F. Rissman from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1994.

Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson from Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. W. Victor Vieweg from Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State and Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Mary C. Wimer from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Moses K. Woode from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Research Associate Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Medical Education and Associate Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective May 16, 1991.

## SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS DELETED

## RESIGNATIONS

The following resignations were announced:

Ms. Sally A. Amero, Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Judith W. Balthazar, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Dr. Jeffrey L. Blumer, Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Dr. Karen A. Bringelsen, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Bing C. Cai, Visiting Professor of Materials Science, effective June 30, 1991, because funding project ended.

Mr. Peter A. Campochiaro, Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Raymond D. Dueser, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Cynthia J. Duncan, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective May 9, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Linda A. Eastham, Instructor in Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Dr. Frank A. England, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, effective April 30, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Cheryl L. Eschbach, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Dr. Larry J. Findley, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Barbara G. Gallo, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective May 15, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Peter B. H'Doubler, Jr., Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Allan M. Judd, Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Kevin L. Keough, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective October 2, 1990, for personal reasons.

Dr. Fred Koch, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Dr. Jan A. Leigh-Fleming, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 1, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Jeanne M. Liedtka, Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Eve L. Menger, Professor of Chemistry, effective July 15, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Marc D. Moskovitz, Lecturer of Music in Cello, effective September 1, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Yvonne G. Newberry, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective August 15, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Robert M. Owen, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1991, for personal reasons.

Ms. Elayne K. Phillips, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Mr. Kenneth G. Pote, Research Assistant Professor of Biology, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky, Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Austin E. Quigley, Professor of English, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Janine P. Ray, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, effective August 2, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Michael D. Reed, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Dr. David W. Robinson, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, effective June 15, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Mary V. Rorty, Lecturer in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, effective August 31, 1991, for personal reasons.

Dr. Theresa Schlager, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position with the Department of Pediatrics.

Ms. Dhun G. Sharma, Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. George F. Shuster, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Gregory G. Simoncini, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective August 1, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Deborah M. Strzepek, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective September 30, 1988, for personal reasons.

Mr. Philip M. Tate, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Dean L. Urban, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Stanley A. Vinores, Research Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, effective July 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Dr. Eileen Watson, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, for personal reasons.

Mr. Peter A. Wieringa, Visiting Associate Professor of Physiology, effective April 30, 1991, to accept another position.

Ms. Carol A. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. Ben C. Yen, Professor of Civil Engineering, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position.

Mr. William W. Young, Jr., Associate Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1991, to accept another position.

## RETIREMENTS

The following retirements were announced:

Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell, Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1991. Mr. Hartwell has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1984.

Mr. Roland E. Johnson, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Johnson has been a member of the faculty since October 15, 1983.

## APPOINTMENTS

The following appointments were announced:

Mr. Brandt R. Allen as Associate Dean for Executive Education, The Darden School, for three years, effective August 1, 1991.

Mr. Herbert Braun as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. George L. Cahen as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Melvin Cherno as Principal of Stadium Road Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Barbara J. Deily as Acting Auditor, for the period April 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Mr. William H. Fishback, Jr. as Special Advisor to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert F. German, Jr. as Chief of Staff, Office of the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Pearl S. Gray as Major Gifts Officer and Adviser to the President, for the period June 1, 1991 through May 31, 1993.

Ms. Susan G. Harris as Assistant to the General Counsel, for one year, effective March 1, 1991.

Mr. James L. Kelly as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Benjamin C. Ray as Co-Principal of Monroe Hill Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Co-Principal of Monroe Hill Residential College, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Albert B. Reynolds as Chairman of the Department of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William G. Rowland, Jr. as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. C. Ray Smith as Associate Dean for Masters of Business Administration Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Patricia M. Spacks as Chair, Department of English, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William J. Thurneck as Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period December 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.

Mr. William J. Thurneck as Assistant Dean for Administrative and Academic Affairs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1993.

Ms. Valdrie N. Walker as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1991.

Ms. Margaret M. Williams as Assistant to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for the period June 10, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

## RE-APPOINTMENTS

The following re-appointments were announced:

Dr. B. Lewis Barnett, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Family Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.

Ms. Linda K. Bunker as Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs, School of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. James C. Garrison as Interim Chair of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Alice W. Handy as University Treasurer, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Betty M. Johnson as Interim Assistant Dean for Continuing Education and Offgrounds, School of Nursing, for the period July 1, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Mr. Stephen A. Kimata as University Bursar, for the period June 1, 1991 through June 30, 1994.

Mr. William F. Lanier as Assistant Dean, Federal Bureau of Investigation National Academy, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Jen-Shih Lee as Chairman, Department of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. L. Jay Lemons as Assistant to the President, for the period September 1, 1991 through April 30, 1992.

Ms. Hilary L. Morgan as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. David Morris as Associate Dean for Academic Programs, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chairman, Department of Human Services, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Michael J. Peach as Associate Dean for Research, School of Medicine, for three years, effective April 1, 1991.

Mr. Timothy J. Scovill as Associate Dean for Academic Support, Division of Continuing Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chairman, Department of Educational Studies, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.

Dr. Warren G. Stamp as Chairman, Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Associate Dean, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Milton E. Turner as Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.

Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Chairman, Department of Dermatology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. Larry B. Wenger as Law Librarian, School of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.

Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Assistant Provost for Research, for the period July 1, 1991 through February 15, 1992.

## ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following person be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991.

## CHANGE IN ELECTION OF DR. LARRY D. EDWARDS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Larry D. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Dr. Larry D. Edwards as Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.

## CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. WILLIAM W. ABBOT

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. William W. Abbot as James Madison Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. William W. Abbot, James Madison Professor of History, with partial pay, for the period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan.

## CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF DR. ROBERT W. CANTRELL

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through August 31, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.

## CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. AVERY CATLIN

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of February 1, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

## CHANGE IN THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. LUCIANA G. WLASSICS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period June 3, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Ms. Luciana G. Wlassics, as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period June 3, 1991 through July 31, 1991, without pay, for a voluntary furlough.

## CHANGE IN THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE RESIGNATION OF DR. CYNTHIA L. JANUS

The President announced that the resignation of Dr. Cynthia L. Janus, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective August 30, 1991, for personal reasons, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Dr. Cynthia L. Janus, Associate Professor of Radiology, effective June 24, 1991, for personal reasons.

## CHANGE IN RESIGNATION OF MR. STEPHEN N. MACFARLANE

The President announced that the resignation of Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign affairs, effective May 31, 1991, to accept another position, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of May 24, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. Stephen N. MacFarlane, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective August 1, 1991, to accept another position.

## CHANGE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MR. JOHN W. BORING

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. John W. Boring, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. John W. Boring, Professor of Engineering Physics, effective May 31, 1991. Mr. Boring has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

## CHANGE IN RETIREMENT OF MR. JOSEPH E. GIBSON

The President announced that the retirement of Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991. Mr. Gibson has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1955.

## CHANGE IN ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF MR. JOSEPH E. GIBSON

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the election of Professor Emeritus of Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective May 31, 1991, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1991, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Professor of Professional Accounting, effective June 30, 1991.

## ELECTION OF MR. THOMAS H. JACKSON AS INTERIM VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. Thomas H. Jackson be and he is hereby elected as Interim Vice President and Provost of the University of Virginia until a Vice President and Provost of the University is elected, effective September 1, 1991.

## ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT D. SWEENEY AS VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that Mr. Robert D. Sweeney, be and he is hereby elected Vice President for Development, for five years, effective August 1, 1991.

## CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Mr. Christopher F. Achua as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. LeAnder Canady as Associate Professor of Art, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.

Mr. Carroll W. Dale as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective June 1, 1991.

## ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY

##
