<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1991)

## February 1, 1991

### board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 1, 1991

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

# THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

## February 1, 1991

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session on Thursday, January 31, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., and Elizabeth D. Morie. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, and Hugh P. Kelly were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 4:30 p.m., in Open Session on Friday, February 1, 1991, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Edward E. Elson, President John T. Casteen, III, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Hovey S. Dabney, Waller H. Horsley, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Julie G. Lynn, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., S. Buford Scott, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Ernest H. Ern, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Raymond M. Haas, Don E. Detmer, and Hugh P. Kelly were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

# MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION

The following motions were unanimously adopted by the vote of all Visitors present:

* (a) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation or resignation of faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.
* (b) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing investment strategies with the University investment managers relating to University Endowment Funds, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(6) of The Code of Virginia.
* (c) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with the General Counsel pertaining to actual and probable litigation, or other specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by Counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(7) of The Code of Virginia.
* (d) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing capital fundraising plans, strategies and activities, including identification of prospective donors, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(8) of The Code of Virginia.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 4:30 p.m., on February 1, 1991.

# STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT

The President reported that the rough draft of the Ten-Year Academic Plan will be presented to the Board at the March 1991 meeting.

# ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted:
RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

* Dr. Manuel Aguilar as Instructor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective November 1, 1990.
* Ms. Jann T. Balmer as Instructor in Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 4, 1990.
* Mr. Christopher Barton as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991.
* Mr. Joseph D. Bazan as Lecturer, General Faculty, Medical Center, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Mr. David J. Burger as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Instructor, General Faculty, for five years, effective December 3, 1990.
* Mr. Ronald D. Carter as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Bien D. Chiang as Lecturer in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Georgia H. Childress as Lecturer, General Faculty, for two years, effective November 26, 1990.
* Ms. Lynda F. Clendenning as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.
* Dr. G. Rees Cosgrove as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Ms. Marilu Dixon as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Mark S. Doherty as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.
* Dr. Frank A. England as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.
* Mr. Michael S. Fenster as Instructor in Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Elizabeth P. Harper as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.
* Dr. Gary J. Harpold as Assistant Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.
* Dr. Harvey N. Himel as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Annelle V. Hodges as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Ms. Susan G. Huffman as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. William D. Jonsen as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Dr. James R. Kerrigan as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Dr. Jun Kim as Visiting Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period December 1, 1990 through March 31, 1991.
* Mr. Kenneth J. Kress as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Mr. Richard B. Laurance as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.
* Mr. Kevin S. Lee as Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.
* Ms. Karen S. Leibert as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Mr. Jonathan M. Lord as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.
* Ms. Joyce F. MacDonald as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective November 16, 1990.
* Dr. John C. Marshall as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective January 1, 1991.
* Ms. Paula D. McClain as Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1991.
* Ms. Janelle A. Molloy as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1990.
* Mr. Brendan P. Mullan as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Anne Perotin-Dumon as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Ms. Judith M. Reagan as Lecturer in Drama, for one semester, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Juanita Reigle as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Claudio Santangelo as Lecturer in Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Stephen H. Sprigle as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Jamie B. Townsend as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.
* Dr. Bhairvi K. Trivedi as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for the period August 1, 1990 through June 30, 1993.
* Ms. Leah C. Wacksman as Instructor, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period November 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Dr. Eileen Watson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective December 1, 1990.
* Mr. Albert Whalley as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1990.
* Ms. Brenda L. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Faculty, Medical Center, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1993.

# ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY

# ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY

# ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY

# ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:

* (a) Election of Chairholders
  * Mr. Roger Chevalier as W. H. Vanderbilt Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $75,000.
  * Mr. Mark R. Eaker as Robert F. Vandell Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1990, at an annual salary of $104,300.
  * Mr. Michael Fowler as Commonwealth Professor of Physics, effective January 1, 1991, at an annual salary of $102,500.
  * Mr. Thomas F. Gallagher as Jesse W. Beams Professor of Physics, effective January 1, 1991, at an academic year salary of $76,000.
  * Mr. Georce M. Hornberger as Distinguished Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $70,000.
  * Mr. Rudy Hunziker as Harry Shure Visiting Professor of Architecture, for the period October 25, 1990 through December 31, 1990, at a salary of $19,380.
    * SKETCH: Born October 14, 1946, Lugano, Switzerland. Lugano Technical University: Diploma in Architecture, 1972; Visiting Professor, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 1980-90; Private Practice: 1979-90.
  * Mr. Dell H. Hymes as Commonwealth Professor of Anthropology and Commonwealth Professor of English, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $98,500.
  * Dr. Eric W. Lothman as Eugene Meyer, III, Professor of Neuroscience, effective October 1, 1990.
  * Dr. John C. Marshall as Arthur and Margaret Ebbert Professor of Medical Science, effective January 1, 1991.
  * Mr. Carl W. Stenberg, III as Distinguished Professor for the Director of the Center for Public Service, effective September 1, 1990, at an annual salary of $112,400.
  * Mr. Henry M. Wilbur as Commonwealth Professor of Biology and Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective July 1, 1991, at an annual salary of $106,700.
    * SKETCH: Born January 25, 1944, Bridgeport, Connecticut. Duke University: B.S., 1966; University of Michigan: Ph.D., 1971; Fellow, University of Michigan: 1971-73; Assistant Professor/Associate Professor/Professor, Duke University: 1973-90.
* (b) Re-elections of Chairholders
  * Mr. Murray H. Finley as Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
  * Mr. Frederick D. Nichols as Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* (c) Leave of Absence of Chairholders
  * Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.
  * Mr. Murray H. Finley, Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Professor of Business Administration, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons.
* (d) Special Salary Action for Chairholders
  * Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Commonwealth Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $105,000.
  * Mr. Edmund W. Kitch, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $121,600.
  * Mr. Saul Levmore, Barron F. Black Research Professor of Law and Professor of Law, effective December 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $85,500.
  * Mr. J. James Murray, Jr., Samuel Miller Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1989, at an annual salary of $73,800.
* (e) Resignation of Chairholder
  * Mr. David L. Clark, William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.

# RE-ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

* Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.
* Ms. Arlene Aveno as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Timothy P. Bender as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1991.
* Mr. Stuart S. Berr as Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective October 1, 1990.
* Dr. Edward H. Bertram, III as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1991.
* Mr. Gregg D. Bleam as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Linda K. Blum as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1990.
* Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Bing Cai as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.
* Mr. Robert W. Collin as Assistant Professor of Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Patricia F. Coopersmith as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective October 1, 1990.
* Ms. Jonquil D. Feldman as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.
* Mr. Michael L. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Susan D. Fraiman as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Mr. John W. Frick as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Ms. Nancy J. Gansneder as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Patricia A. Gill as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Mr. R. Sergio Guglielmi as Lecturer in Psychology and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Susan T. Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Martin A. Hoard as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for the period December 1, 1990 through June 30, 1992.
* Ms. Laura C. Huang as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.
* Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Visiting Professor of Architectural History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Mr. Benjamin R. Jacobson as Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for one year, effective December 9, 1990.
* Ms. Judith A. Kinnard as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Daria Kiselica as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period February 1, 1991 through January 31, 1994.
* Mr. Arthur W. Lichtenberger as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Larry L. Lowe as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for the period November 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990.
* Mr. Joseph N. Mait as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 16, 1991.
* Mr. Hugo A. Massaldi as Visiting Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period November 15, 1990 through May 14, 1991.
* Ms. Janice L. McMillan as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Mr. Kenneth Morgan as Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective December 15, 1990.
* Ms. Rachel Most as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Kwong-Tai Ng as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective January 1, 1991.
* Ms. Deborah W. Parker as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Karen V. Parshall as Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Ms. Nancy Perdue as Scholar in Residence in Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Christine M. Peterson as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective August 16, 1990.
* Mr. Dinko Pocanic as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.
* Mr. Prem veer Gujja Reddy as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective October 15, 1990.
* Ms. Emilie F. Rissman as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1994.
* Ms. Elizabeth P. Rosenblum as Research Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Helmy M. Siragy as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period October 1, 1990 through March 31, 1992.
* Mr. Bryan L. Spangelo as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective December 1, 1990.
* Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.
* Mr. William R. Stewart, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period October 1, 1990 through November 30, 1991.
* Ms. June L. Triplett as Visiting Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1991.
* Mr. Dean L. Urban as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 16, 1990.
* Mr. Paul Vanden Bout as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. George B. Vaughan as Visiting Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1991.
* Mr. Stanley A. Vinores as Research Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.
* Dr. Frederic B. Walker, IV as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1990.
* Mr. Dingying Wei as Visiting Scholar in Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990.
* Dr. Maryanne D. Williams as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective November 1, 1990.
* Dr. Barbara B. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective September 16, 1990.

# LEAVES OF ABSENCE

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

* Mr. Bennett I. Bertenthal, Associate Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Mr. Edwin Burmeister, Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1991 through May 31, 1992, without pay, to do research.
* Dr. Robert W. Cantrell, Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for the period September 1, 1990 through February 28, 1991, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.
* Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, for the period January 16, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to continue early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.
* Mr. James G. Clawson, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.
* Mr. Lionel R. Duisit, Associate Professor of French, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the early retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.
* Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, for educational purposes.
* Mr. Maxim P. Engers, Associate Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, without pay, to do research.
* Ms. Marjorie A. Flavin, Associate Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.
* Ms. Charlene E. Gill, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 24, 1991, with pay, for medical reasons.
* Ms. Patricia A. Gill, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Mr. Paul E. Gold, Professor of Psychology, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Ms. Janice L. Knight, Assistant Professor of English, for the period September 1, 1990 through September 30, 1990, with partial pay, to accept a fellowship at Harvard University.
* Mr. P. David Kovacs, Professor of Classics, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1992, with partial pay, to do research.
* Ms. Suzanne Louis, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 15, 1991, with partial pay, to pursue masters degree.
* Mr. Stewart C. Malone, Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Mr. Worthy N. Martin, Associate Professor of Computer Science, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Ms. Jennie L. Moody, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period October 1, 1990 through October 31, 1990, without pay, because of delay in grant funding.
* Mr. Peter Onuf, Professor of History, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to do research.
* Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period November 1, 1990 through October 31, 1991, with pay, to do research.
* Mr. G. Carleton Ray, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, because of insufficient research grant funds.
* Mr. Steven E. Rhoads, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, to complete work on a book.
* Mr. Richard Rorty, University Professor of Philosophy, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to accept a grant.
* Mr. Larry J. Sabato, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1990 through January 15, 1991, with partial pay, to do research.
* Mr. John T. Sigmon, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period November 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, without pay, to be consultant for the Committee on Science, Space and Technology, United States House of Representatives.
* Mr. S. Fred Singer, Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, without pay, for personal reasons.
* Mr. John W. Stewart, Associate Professor of Physics, for the period September 1, 1991 through January 15, 1992, without pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.
* Mr. John E. Travers, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for the period August 26, 1990 through November 26, 1990, without pay, to accept the call to active duty.
* Mr. Dean L. Urban, Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 1, 1991 through October 15, 1991, without pay, because of deficiency in research funding.
* Dr. Maryanne D. Williams, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period September 1, 1990 through September 18, 1990, without pay, for personal reasons.

# CHANGES OF TITLE

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:

* Mr. Ian Ayres from Visiting Associate Professor of Law to Research Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. James R. Barrett from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, effective the period October 1, 1990 through August 31, 1991.
* Ms. Sarah M. Corse from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology to Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective January 16, 1991.
* Dr. Frank Fodor from Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Southwestern State Hospital to Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Catawba Hospital, for the period October 1, 1990 through June 30, 1991.
* Mr. Eric H. Maslen from Acting Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering to Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Ake Mattsson from Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, DeJarnette Center to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for the period November 21, 1989 through June 30, 1992.
* Ms. Susan E. Perry from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three years, effective October 1, 1990.
* Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky from Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, General Medical Faculty, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Scott W. Sautter from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective January 1, 1991.
* Mr. David G. White from Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one year, effective January 16, 1991.

# RESIGNATIONS

The following resignations were announced:

* Ms. Margaret A. Aycock, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective January 5, 1991, to accept another position.
* Mr. Gary Dicovitsky, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 4, 1991, to accept another position.
* Dr. W. Keith Dockery, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, effective December 13, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Jingchang Dong, Visiting Scholar in Biomedical Engineering, effective August 31, 1990, to become a student at George Mason University.
* Dr. Ramesh D. Doshi, Assistant Professor of Radiology, Salem Program, effective August 26, 1990, for personal reasons.
* Dr. Joseph P. Dutkowsky, Assistant Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, effective September 30, 1990, to accept another job.
* Dr. Robert D. Ferguson, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective September 30, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. John P. Headrick, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective October 2, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Donald L. Kaiser, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1990, for personal reasons.
* Dr. Thomas M. Kayrouz, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, effective October 20, 1990, to accept another position.
* Dr. Nicholas J. Lenn, Professor of Neurology and Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Peter A. Lichtenberg, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Richard H. Lindemann, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective February 1, 1991, to accept another position.
* Dr. Jacob A. Lohr, Professor of Pediatrics, effective October 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Theodore E. Mifflin, Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Peter L. Munger, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective November 30, 1990, to accept another position.
* Dr. Daniel J. Pambianco, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective September 30, 1990, to accept a non-salaried position with the Department of Internal Medicine.
* Mr. Marion B. Peavey, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective December 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Mr. Theodore M. Porter, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1991, for personal reasons.
* Ms. Melinda L. Reardon, Instructor in Education, effective August 20, 1990, for personal reasons.
* Ms. Nancy Sacks, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective September 17, 1990, for personal reasons.
* Ms. Ellen P. Soroka, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1990, for personal reasons.
* Mr. Terry A. Thorkildson, Associate Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective February 20, 1991, for personal reasons.
* Mr. Gerald Wallace, Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1990, to accept another position.
* Ms. Margot L. White, Clinical Assistant Professor of Biomedical Ethics in Internal Medicine, effective September 30, 1990, to accept a position as Assistant Professor in the Department of Internal Medicine.
* Ms. Mary L. Wicker, Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective October 16, 1990, to accept another position.

# APPOINTMENTS

The following appointments were announced:

* Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Chair, Department of Educational Leadership and Policy Studies, School of Education, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1993.
* Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Associate Dean for External Relations and Faculty Development, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Joyce A. Feucht-Haviar as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.
* Mr. Jay Hirsh as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period January 1, 1991 through June 30, 1992.
* Mr. Robert J. Huskey as Interim Dean of Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for the period September 1, 1990 through December 31, 1990.
* Ms. Rebecca D. Kneedler as Chair, Department of Curriculum, Instruction, and Special Education, School of Education, for three years, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. John C. Marshall as Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine, for five years, effective January 1, 1991.
* Mr. William R. Pinch as Assistant Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Dr. Karen S. Rheuban as Associate Dean for Continuing Medical Education, for three years, effective October 16, 1990.
* Ms. Patricia M. Spacks as Chairman, Department of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1991.

# RE-APPOINTMENTS

The following re-appointments were announced:

* Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Mr. S. Kent Dohrman as Assistant Vice President for Auxiliary Services, for the period October 30, 1990 through October 31, 1991.
* Mr. Charles T. Gillet as Assistant Vice President for Finance, for three years, effective October 1, 1990.
* Mr. Raymond J. Nelson, Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1991.
* Mr. Robert H. Pate, Jr. as Chair, Department of Human Services, School of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Ms. Maruta L. Ray as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.
* Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chair, Department of Educational Studies, School of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1991.
* Ms. Christine M. Zunz as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1991.

# DELETION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. WYUN K. PARK AS ANNOUNCED TO THE BOARD ON MAY 25, 1990

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Wyun K. Park, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, effective May 1, 1990, be and it is hereby deleted.

# CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD G. PICCOLO

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Richard G. Piccolo as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 10, 1990, at an annual salary of $45,000, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Mr. Richard G. Piccolo as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 17, 1990, at an annual salary of $45,000.

# CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MS. CAROL W. TOMLINSON

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $29,000, as shown in the Minutes of the Meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $29,000.

# CORRECTION IN THE RE-ELECTION OF DR. THOMAS A. MASSARO

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the re-election of Dr. Thomas A. Massaro as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Dr. Thomas A. Massaro, as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1990.

# CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MS. MARION W. ROSS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Ms. Marion W. Ross, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology, part-time to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Ms. Marion W. Ross from Assistant Professor of Anthropology, part-time, to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1990.

# CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. KAREN O. DOWD

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Ms. Karen O. Dowd, Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to pursue doctoral degree, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Ms. Karen O. Dowd, Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1990 through December 15, 1990, with partial pay, to pursue doctoral degree.

# CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. WILLIAM A. LITTLE

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, for the period January 16, 1991 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors, be and it is hereby corrected to read as follows: Mr. William A. Little, Professor of German, for the period September 1, 1990 through May 31, 1991, with partial pay, to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.

# CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE RESIGNATION OF MS. KATHERINE E. MALMQUIST

The President announced that the effective date of the resignation of Ms. Katherine E. Malmquist as announced to the Board on October 5, 1990, be and it is hereby corrected as follows:

# SEPARATION

The President announced the following separation: Mr. Gilbert Hay, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective November 16, 1990.

# DEATH OF DR. MICHAEL L. CONNELL

# DEATH OF DR. LESLIE E. RUDOLF

# CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

* Mr. John P. Bradwell as Assistant Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $24,000.
* Mr. Sreenath Shama as Visiting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $31,000.
* Mr. Christopher L. Rizzo as Lecturer, General Faculty, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 17, 1990, at an annual salary of $21,100.
* Mr. Oscar R. Williams, III as Instructor in History, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1990, at an academic year salary of $20,000.

# PROMOTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:

* Mr. Walter C. Crouse, from Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1990.
* Mr. Paul D. Elosser, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, to Professor of Mathematics, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1990.

# APPOINTMENT

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Christopher L. Rizzo as Coordinator of Residence and Greek Life, Clinch Valley College, for one year, effective September 17, 1990.

# APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following be and they are hereby nominated to terms on the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council:

* a. For a term ending June 30, 1992: Joe Tom Howard, Eliza Sutton Rigg
* b. For a term ending June 30, 1993: Glenda F. Ewing, Bobby H. Colyer, Sr.
* c. For a term ending June 30, 1994: Don R. Pippin, R. L. Wallen

# REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

# APPROVAL OF THE 1992-1994 CAPITAL OUTLAY PROGRAM

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approve for final development by the University Administration and submittal to State government the final 1992-94 Capital Budget Program for the University of Virginia, Academic Division (Agency 207), Medical Center (Agency 209) and Clinch Valley College (Agency 246), as presented to the Board.

# APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HARTMAN-COX ARCHITECTS FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES FOR A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR THE ALDERMAN LIBRARY SPECIAL COLLECTIONS EXPANSION PROJECT

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Hartman-Cox Architects of Washington, D. C., be approved for the performance of architectural services for a feasibility study for the Alderman Library Special Collections Expansion Project. At the option of the University administration, the firm may later be continued for development of a preplanning study and for full architectural design services upon approval of the project by State government.

# APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR THE AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY (AT\&T) ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated February 22, 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and AT\&T which grants a ten (10) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain a fiber optics telephone line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Blue Ridge Hospital on Virginia Route 20 South be and it is hereby approved;
RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

# APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated September 9, 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company which grants a thirty (30) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain an electric power line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Copeley Apartment Complex (Section IV) in the northern portion of the Grounds be and it is hereby approved;
RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

# APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated October 1990 between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Virginia Electric and Power Company which grants a thirty (30) foot easement of right-of-way to operate and maintain an electric power line across property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and located in the vicinity of the Lambeth Field Apartment Complex in the northern portion of the Grounds be and it is hereby approved;
RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

# APPROVAL OF THE WRITE-OFF OF BAD DEBTS AND FREE SERVICE

**Bad Debt**\
$ 2,852,199.38

**Indigent Care**\
16,726,181.64

\--------------\
$19,578,381.02

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Medical Center Accounts Committee be and it hereby is authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts included in the University of Virginia Medical Center Accounts Committee Reports for the meetings of October 22, 1990 and November 30, 1990, which includes the write-offs for the months of August, September and October 1990 totalling $19,578,381.02 and consisting of the following:

**Bad Debt**\
$ 2,852,199.38

**Indigent Care**\
16,726,181.64

\--------------\
$19,578,381.02

RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of debts represented by such accounts.

# APPROVAL OF PROPOSED INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION, CONFERENCE, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE FACILITIES RATES FOR 1991-1992

| **TUITION** | **Actual 1990** | **Amount of Increase** | **Percent Increase** | **Proposed 1991** |
|-------------|------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-------------------|
| Virginian (per semester hour) | $ 82.00 | $ 9.00 | 11.0% | $ 91.00 |
| Non-Virginian (per semester hour) | 238.00 | 35.00 | 14.7% | 273.00 |
| Thesis/Dissertation Research | 245.00 | 30.00 | 12.2% | 275.00 |
| Appellate Judges Program | 738.00 | 81.00 | 11.0% | 819.00 |
| Non-Resident Fee | 45.00 | 0.00 | -- | 45.00 |
| Late Payment Fee | 25.00 | 0.00 | -- | 25.00 |
| Summer Foreign Language Institute | 25.00 | 5.00 | 20.00% | 30.00 |

**COMPREHENSIVE FEE**

| **Facility** | **Actual 1990** | **Amount of Increase** | **Percent Increase** | **Proposed 1991** |
|--------------|-----------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-------------------|
| Newcomb Hall | $ 9.00 | 0.00 | -- | $ 9.00 |
| Student Health | 41.00 | 3.00 | 7.3% | 44.00 |
| Transportation | 8.00 | 1.00 | 12.5% | 9.00 |
| TOTAL | $ 58.00 | $ 4.00 | 6.9% | $ 62.00 |

| **Actual 1990** | **Amount of Increase** | **Percent Increase** | **Proposed 1991** |
|------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-------------------|
| Lab Fee and Field Trip | $ 58.00 | $ 4.00 | 6.9% | $ 62.00 |
| Pre-Doctoral Research Fee Per Term: | Virginian | 245.00 | 30.00 | 12.2% | 275.00 |
| Non-Virginian | 490.00 | 60.00 | 12.2% | 550.00 |
| Post doctoral Laboratory: | Fee per week | 89.00 | 6.00 | 6.7% | 95.00 |

# MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

| **Each Person 17 years of age & older** | $367.00 | $ 0.00 | 0.0% | $367.00 |
|-----------------------------------------|---------|------------------|------------------|--------------------|
| **Each Person 10-16 years of age** | 236.00 | 0.00 | 0.0% | 236.00 |
| **Each Person 9 years of age & younger** | 146.00 | 0.00 | 0.0% | 146.00 |

# MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

| **Dormitories** | $ 80.00 | $ 5.00 | 6.3% | $ 85.00 |
|----------------|---------|------------------|------------------|--------------------|
| **Cottages** | | | | |
| Laing Singles | 80.00 | 5.00 | 6.3% | 85.00 |
| Laing Center | 120.00 | 0.00 | 0.0% | 120.00 |
| North | 110.00 | 7.00 | 6.4% | 117.00 |
| South | 110.00 | 7.00 | 6.4% | 117.00 |
| Northwest | 110.00 | 7.00 | 6.4% | 117.00 |
| West | 120.00 | 0.00 | 0.0% | 120.00 |
| Hentz-Mohr | 162.00 | 10.00 | 6.2% | 172.00 |
| With Kitchen | 204.00 | 11.00 | 5.4% | 215.00 |
| Clayton | 162.00 | 10.00 | 6.2% | 172.00 |
| Catesby | 136.00 | 8.00 | 5.9% | 144.00 |
| Gattinger | 136.00 | 8.00 | 5.9% | 144.00 |
| Michaux | 162.00 | 10.00 | 6.2% | 172.00 |
| With Kitchen | 204.00 | 11.00 | 5.4% | 215.00 |
| Burns | 144.00 | 16.00 | 11.1% | 160.00 |
| With Kitchen | -- | -- | new rate | 200.00 |
| Washington | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Banister | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| LeConte | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Hariot | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Schoew | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Mapnis | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Holbrook | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Mitchell | 144.00 | 9.00 | 6.3% | 153.00 |
| Rafinesque | 126.00 | 8.00 | 6.3% | 134.00 |

# FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)** | | | |
| Alderman-Observatory | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 38.00 | $ 2.00 | 5.3% |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% |
| Brandon Apartment Complex | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 60.00 | $ 4.00 | 6.7% |
| Munford/Gwathmey | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 38.00 | $ 2.00 | 5.3% |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% |
| Sprigg Lane | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 42.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.8% |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 54.00 | $ 2.00 | 3.7% |
| Stadium Road | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 42.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.8% |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 54.00 | $ 2.00 | 3.7% |

# SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10*

## (A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 16.25** | **$ 1.25** | **7.7%** | **$ 17.50** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 22.50 | $ 1.50 | 6.7% | $ 24.00 |
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 14.00** | **$ 1.00** | **7.1%** | **$ 15.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 19.25 | $ 1.25 | 6.5% | $ 20.50 |
| **Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 17.75** | **$ 1.25** | **7.0%** | **$ 19.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 25.50 | $ 1.75 | 6.9% | $ 27.25 |
| **Lawn** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 14.50** | **$ 1.00** | **6.9%** | **$ 15.50** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 20.00 | $ 1.50 | 7.5% | $ 21.50 |
| **Faulkner** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 16.75** | **$ 1.25** | **7.5%** | **$ 18.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 24.50 | $ 1.75 | 7.1% | $ 26.25 |

## FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)** | | | |
| Per person, per night, double occupancy | $ 14.50 | $ 1.00 | 6.9% | $ 15.50 |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 20.75 | $ 1.50 | 7.2% | $ 22.25 |

## (B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 13.50** | **$ 1.00** | **7.4%** | **$ 14.50** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 18.50 | $ 1.50 | 8.1% | $ 20.00 |
| **Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apartment** | | | | |
| $ 190.00 | $15.00 | 7.9% | $205.00 |
| **Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apartment** | | | | |
| $ 250.00 | $20.00 | 8.0% | $270.00 |
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 12.00** | **$ 1.00** | **8.3%** | **$ 13.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 16.00 | $ 1.25 | 7.8% | $ 17.25 |
| **Alderman/Observatory Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 12.50 | $ .75 | 6.0% | $ 13.25 |
| **McCormick Road Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 9.50** | **$ .50** | **5.3%** | **$ 10.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 10.50 | $ .75 | 7.1% | $ 11.25 |
| **Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 12.00** | **$ 1.00** | **8.3%** | **$ 13.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 14.50 | $ 1.00 | 6.9% | $ 15.50 |

## (C) NO LINEN SERVICE

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |

## FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **Alderman/Observatory Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 8.75** | **$ .75** | **8.6%** | **$ 9.50** |
| **McCormick Road Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 7.75** | **$ .50** | **6.5%** | **$ 8.25** |
| **Munford/Gwathmey** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 8.25** | **$ .75** | **9.1%** | **$ 9.00** |
| **Brandon Apartment Complex** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
| **Sprigg Lane** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
| **Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |

## OTHER CONTRACTED per person group rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures.

# GRADUATE SUITES

Graduate Advisor Suites in Alderman and McCormick Road Houses

| **Per suite, per week** | **$ 92.00** | **$ 4.00** | **4.4%** | **$ 96.00** |

# GRADUATION GUESTS

| **Alderman/Observatory** | **Per person, per night** | **$ 14.00** | **$ 2.00** | **14.3%** | **$ 16.00** |

*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10*

# AND BE IT RESOLVED that the following rental rates for housing facilities for summer, 1991, be and they are hereby approved:

## FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **SUMMER SESSION RATES (Including PHD Institute)** | | | |
| Alderman-Observatory | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 38.00 | $ 2.00 | 5.3% | $ 40.00 |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% | $ 50.00 |
| Brandon Apartment Complex | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% | $ 50.00 |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 60.00 | $ 4.00 | 6.7% | $ 64.00 |
| Munford/Gwathmey | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 38.00 | $ 2.00 | 5.3% | $ 40.00 |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 48.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.2% | $ 50.00 |
| Sprigg Lane | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 42.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.8% | $ 44.00 |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 54.00 | $ 2.00 | 3.7% | $ 56.00 |
| Stadium Road | | | |
| Per student, per week, double occupancy | $ 42.00 | $ 2.00 | 4.8% | $ 44.00 |
| Per student, per week, single occupancy | $ 54.00 | $ 2.00 | 3.7% | $ 56.00 |

## SUMMER CONFERENCE RATES

*Five percent discount for reservations received for the period of August 4 through August 10*

### (A) FULL SERVICE - All linens provided; full, daily maid service.

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 16.25** | **$ 1.25** | **7.7%** | **$ 17.50** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 22.50 | $ 1.50 | 6.7% | $ 24.00 |
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 14.00** | **$ 1.00** | **7.1%** | **$ 15.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 19.25 | $ 1.25 | 6.5% | $ 20.50 |
| **Copeley Hill, Phase III & IV** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 17.75** | **$ 1.25** | **7.0%** | **$ 19.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 25.50 | $ 1.75 | 6.9% | $ 27.25 |
| **Lawn** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 14.50** | **$ 1.00** | **6.9%** | **$ 15.50** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 20.00 | $ 1.50 | 7.5% | $ 21.50 |
| **Faulkner** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 16.75** | **$ 1.25** | **7.5%** | **$ 18.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 24.50 | $ 1.75 | 7.1% | $ 26.25 |

### FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)** | | | |
| Per person, per night, double occupancy | $ 14.50 | $ 1.00 | 6.9% | $ 15.50 |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 20.75 | $ 1.50 | 7.2% | $ 22.25 |

### (B) PARTIAL SERVICE - Most linens provided; common areas serviced moderately.

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 13.50** | **$ 1.00** | **7.4%** | **$ 14.50** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 18.50 | $ 1.50 | 8.1% | $ 20.00 |
| **Family rates, per week 2 bdrm apartment** | | | | |
| $ 190.00 | $15.00 | 7.9% | $205.00 |
| **Family rates, per week 3 bdrm apartment** | | | | |
| $ 250.00 | $20.00 | 8.0% | $270.00 |
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 12.00** | **$ 1.00** | **8.3%** | **$ 13.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 16.00 | $ 1.25 | 7.8% | $ 17.25 |
| **Alderman/Observatory Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 12.50 | $ .75 | 6.0% | $ 13.25 |
| **McCormick Road Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 9.50** | **$ .50** | **5.3%** | **$ 10.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 10.50 | $ .75 | 7.1% | $ 11.25 |
| **Stadium Road (Gooch/Dillard)** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 12.00** | **$ 1.00** | **8.3%** | **$ 13.00** |
| Per person, per night, single occupancy | $ 14.50 | $ 1.00 | 6.9% | $ 15.50 |

### (C) NO LINEN SERVICE

| **Lambeth Field** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| **Monroe Hill Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 10.25** | **$ .75** | **7.3%** | **$ 11.00** |

### FACILITY

| **Actual Summer 1990** | **Amt of Incr** | **Percent Incr** | **Proposed Rate Summer 1991** |
|-------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------------------|
| **Alderman/Observatory Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 8.75** | **$ .75** | **8.6%** | **$ 9.50** |
| **McCormick Road Houses** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 7.75** | **$ .50** | **6.5%** | **$ 8.25** |
| **Munford/Gwathmey** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** | **$ 8.25** | **$ .75** | **9.1%** | **$ 9.00** |
| **Brandon Apartment Complex** | **Per person, per night, double occupancy** |
