<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1992)

## October 9, 1992

### board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 9, 1992

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

### October 9, 1992

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session, on Thursday, October 8, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Daniel A. Hoffler, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott. Messrs. John T. Casteen, III, James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Don E. Detmer, Ernest H. Ern, Robert D. Sweeney, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, October 9, 1992, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Hovey S. Dabney, J. Scott Ballenger, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, J. Thomas Hulvey, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., and S. Buford Scott. Messrs. James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Thomas H. Jackson, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., and Mrs. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 23, 1992, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

## INTRODUCTION OF MR. DANIEL A. HOFFLER

Rector Hovey S. Dabney introduced and welcomed Mr. Daniel A. Hoffler from Chesapeake, Virginia, who was appointed by Governor Wilder on October 1, 1992, to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Waller H. Horsley.

## RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO MR. WALLER H. HORSLEY

Rector Hovey Dabney expressed appreciation to Mr. Waller Horsley for his dedicated service on the Board of Visitors from March 1988 to September 1992.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Waller H. Horsley served with great distinction as a member of the Board of Visitors from his appointment in 1988; and WHEREAS, Mr. Horsley gave exemplary service to the University of Virginia and to higher education in the Commonwealth as Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee; and WHEREAS, Mr. Horsley's years of service to the University began when he was an undergraduate and was clearly recognized by his peers as a leader; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors recognizes and thanks Mr. Horsley for his devoted service to the University and expresses the hope that he will continue to give the University and the Board the benefit of his wisdom and counsel.

## APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE

The Rector announced the appointment of the Special Committee of the Board of Visitors on Clinch Valley College, with the following persons serving as members: J. Thomas Hulvey, Chair, Warner N. Dalhouse and Evans B. Jessee. The Committee is charged with maintaining liaison between the Board and the Interim Chancellor of Clinch Valley College during his incumbency. The Special Committee will work to assist the Interim Chancellor in carrying out his duties and to further the advancement of Clinch Valley College.

## APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES

### HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

### FINANCE COMMITTEE

### BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

### STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE

### EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE

### AUDIT COMMITTEE

### EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in May 1993. The Committee assignments are as follows:

**HEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE**\
J. Thomas Hulvey, Chair\
N. Thomas Connally\
Evans B. Jessee\
Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.\
Elizabeth D. Morie\
Albert H. Small

**FINANCE COMMITTEE**\
Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Chair\
W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.\
Mortimer M. Caplin\
Warner N. Dalhouse\
Arnold H. Leon\
S. Buford Scott

**BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE**\
Elizabeth D. Morie, Chair\
J. Scott Ballenger\
Evans B. Jessee\
S. Buford Scott\
Albert H. Small

**STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE**\
W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Chair\
J. Scott Ballenger\
Robert G. Butcher, Jr.\
Mortimer M. Caplin\
Daniel A. Hoffler\
Patricia M. Kluge\
Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

**EDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEE**\
Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr., Chair\
J. Scott Ballenger\
N. Thomas Connally\
Daniel A. Hoffler\
J. Thomas Hulvey\
Patricia M. Kluge\
Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr.\
Freddie W. Nicholas, Sr.

**AUDIT COMMITTEE**\
S. Buford Scott, Chair\
Mortimer M. Caplin\
Warner N. Dalhouse\
Arnold H. Leon

**EXTERNAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE**\
Arnold H. Leon, Chair\
W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr.\
N. Thomas Connally\
Warner N. Dalhouse\
Patricia M. Kluge\
S. Buford Scott\
Albert H. Small

The Rector, Mr. Hovey S. Dabney, is an ex officio member of all Committees.

## MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all Visitors present:

(a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, including discussion of the legal authority of the Board of Visitors relative to its oversight of University-related foundations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia.

(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Primary Care Center Pharmacy, Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Health Sciences Center Publications Department, Division of Nursing, Clinch Valley College Property Disposal, Newcomb Hall Director's Office, Voice Communications, ITC/ACS Fixed Asset System, ITC/ACS Information Center, and the Center for Public Service, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.

(c) That the External Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing specific fund-raising activities in preparation for the Capital Campaign as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (8) of The Code of Virginia.

(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia.

(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing the details and merits of a proposed investment of University Endowment Funds in a real estate transaction of the University Real Estate Foundation in connection with the Foundation's proposal to the Federal Office of Personnel Management to construct, lease and operate a training facility on the Foundation's Research Park, as provided for in Sections 2.1-344 A.(3) and A.(6) of The Code of Virginia.

## STATEMENT BY MR. DANIEL A. HOFFLER

Mr. Rector, I would like to disclose as a matter of public record my personal interest in the transaction referenced in the motion that has just been made. Armada-Hoffler is engaged with the University Real Estate Foundation to construct the training facility, in the event the Foundation is awarded the contract by the Federal Office of Personnel Management. As Chairman of Armada-Hoffler, I have a personal financial interest in the company.

Although Armada-Hoffler's connection with the University Real Estate Foundation occurred before I was appointed to this Board, and the company's contract will be with the Foundation and not with the University, I want to disclose this on the public record.

I also want to make clear that I will not participate in any way or at any time in this Board's discussion or consideration of the Foundation's proposal. I am recusing myself in order to avoid any potential or appearance of a conflict of interest.

Mr. Secretary, please include this statement in the Minutes of the Board's meeting.

## INTRODUCTION OF MS. POLLEY MCCLURE AS ASSOCIATE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE UNIVERSITY

President John T. Casteen introduced Ms. Polley McClure who became the Associate Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the University on October 1, 1992.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 1:30 p.m., on Friday, October 9, 1992.

## ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

* Ms. Beverly C. Adams as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Matthew Ando as Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Warren S. Arbogast as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Barbara E. Armacost as Research Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Katherine Bankole as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Randal S. Blank as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Edward V. Bonyak as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert C. Brickhouse as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Beth L. Brockell as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.
* Ms. Anne E. Bromley as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Arthur J. Bulger as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert S. Call as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Kimberly A. Carpenter as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Dr. Michela Caruso as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John A. Carver as Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Vincent C. Cibbarelli as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Cathleen Clancy as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Dana R. Clyman as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Alon Confino as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Pamela A. Cook as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period July 15, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Mr. Douglas D. Davis as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.
* Ms. Janet B. Davis as Instructor in Rhetoric, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Dennis L. DeSilvey as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Paul T. Diamond as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Rolland C. Dickson as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1992.
* Mr. Joshua F. Dienstag as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Diane Dodd-McCue as Visiting Assistant Professor of Management, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Nicholas R. Duke as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period July 7, 1992 through April 6, 1993.
* Ms. Billie G. Dunton as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993.
* Ms. Cathy L. Eberly as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Dr. Eleanore M. Ebert as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Kathleen O. Edmunds as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Assistant Professor of Art History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Richard I. Enelow as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Carolyn L. Engelhard as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Roger S. Fager as Senior Research Fellow, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Blaise R. Fallon as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Ms. Margaret V.W. Foster as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David F. Germano as Lecturer in Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Abby L. Gillette as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. William F. Glass, II as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Ms. Donna J. Glassbrenner as Whyburn Instructor in Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. John C. Goble as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective May 15, 1992.
* Ms. Suellen D. Good as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.
* Dr. Matthew J. Goodman as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Rolf Groesbeck as Lecturer in Music, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. William E. Gross as Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. James G. Hart as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David M. Herman as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Ellie M. Hisama as Lecturer in Music, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.
* Dr. Suzanne Holroyd as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Dr. Ai-Xuan L. Holterman as Research Instructor in Surgery, for the period May 16, 1992 through May 15, 1993.
* Dr. Harry W. Horner as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.
* Ms. Marie-Helene Huet as Professor of French, effective January 16, 1993.
* Mr. James P. Ignizio as Professor of Systems Engineering, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. A. Andrew John as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Judith E. Kahn as Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Billie S. Kaser as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective May 18, 1992.
* Ms. Arlene W. Keeling as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Adrienne E. Keller as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Kristie Y. Kim as Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jay W. Klingel as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Karl G. Koenig as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 16, 1992.
* Ms. Pamela A. Kulbok as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Elisabeth Ladenson as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Mary Anne Lally-Graves as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period June 10, 1992 through December 9, 1992.
* Dr. Edward R. Laws, Jr. as Professor of Neurosurgery, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. John P. Leschke as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jorg Liebeherr as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Kant Y.K. Lin as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert E. Livingston as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Rhonda E. Lloyd as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Robin S. Lorsch as Lecturer in Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Stuart M. Lowson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Elizabeth B. Mandell as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Carol A. Manning as Research Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Kirk Martini as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. M. Elizabeth Mason as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Ann C. Massey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Mark A. Mastromarino as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Ms. Polley A. McClure as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective October 1, 1992.
* Ms. Elizabeth K. Meyer as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, effective January 1, 1993.
* Ms. Robin A. Miller as Instructor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 15, 1992.
* Ms. Barbara B. Mooney as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Marcia M. Moore as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Peter L. Munger as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.
* Mr. Antonio Munoz Molina as Visiting Professor of Spanish, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.
* Mr. Kevin D. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Douglas S. Newburg as Lecturer in Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 16, 1992.
* Dr. John R. Nordlund as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Victoria F. Norwood as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Neal R. Nygard as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Laura A. Oaksmith as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Dr. Robert A. Older as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. Barry L. Parkhill as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 17, 1992.
* Ms. Roseann N. Parks as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. William C. Peatman as Research Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective May 15, 1992.
* Ms. Jane C. Prey as Lecturer in Computer Science, for one year, effective July 6, 1992.
* Mr. William J. Price-Wilkin as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jeffrey P. Raffensperger as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 16, 1993 through January 15, 1994.
* Dr. Colin E. Ramirez as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective June 16, 1992.
* Ms. Margaret H. Reitz as Lecturer, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. Paul Rilstone as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1994.
* Mr. Gabriel Robins as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Kathryn M. Rohe as Assistant Professor of Drama, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. James J. Schuster as Instructor in Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. A. Frederick Seaman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. William C. Sessa, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period June 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Mr. David W. Sheatsley as Lecturer, General Medical Center Faculty, for the period July 23, 1992 through June 30, 1993.
* Ms. Setsuko Shiga as Instructor in Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. James A. Smith as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Kenneth G. Smith as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Dominic Starsia as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Gregory V. Strickland as Lecturer, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective April 1, 1992.
* Dr. Scott A. Syverud as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Gang Tao as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. James S. Tiedeman as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Carl B. Tubbs as Instructor in Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Jean T. Turner as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective August 15, 1992.
* Mr. Russell S. Valentino as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Steven D. Walt as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Alicyn Warren as Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Thaisa Way as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Anda L. Webb as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Dr. Jurgen H. Wenzel as Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period April 9, 1992 through February 28, 1993.
* Mr. Daniel B. Willingham as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Deborah M. Woolfolk as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Ms. Ida L. Wootten as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective May 1, 1992.
* Dr. Zhiping Ye as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Paul Yeaton as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Horacio F. Zaglul as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through March 31, 1995.

## ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY

## ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY

## ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY

## ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby approved as shown below:

(a) Election of Chairholder(s)\
Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth as John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1992.\
Mr. Kenneth Elzinga as Cavaliers' Distinguished Teaching Professor, for five years, effective September 1, 1992.\
Mr. David T. Gies as Commonwealth Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1992.\
Mr. Robert C. Higgins as Morris Plan Chair of Consumer Credit, for the period October 1, 1992 through March 31, 1993.\
Mr. James M. Kauffman as William Clay Parrish, Jr., Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Kauffman will continue as Professor of Education.\
Mr. J. Thomas Parsons as F. Palmer Weber Medical Research Professor, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Parsons will continue as Professor of Microbiology.\
Mr. Thomas Philipose as Frank Talbot, Jr. Visiting Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.\
Ms. Amy Weinstein as Harry Shure Visiting Professor of Architecture, for the period October 16, 1992 through December 11, 1992.\
Mr. Richard G. Wilson as Commonwealth Professor of Architectural History, effective September 1, 1992.\
Mr. Brantly Womack as Dorothy Danforth Compton Professor of Public Affairs, for one year, and Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without term, effective September 1, 1992.

(b) Re-Elections of Chairholder(s)\
Mr. Mark R. Eaker as Robert F. Vandell Research Professor in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Eaker will continue as Professor of Business Administration.\
Mr. Thomas C. MacAvoy as Paul M. Hammaker Professor of Business Administration, part time, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1992.\
Dr. Ladislau E. Steiner as Alumni Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.\
Mr. Walter J. Wadlington as Professor of Legal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992. Mr. Wadlington will continue as James Madison Professor of Law.

(c) Leaves of Absence of Chairholder(s)\
Mr. Elmer L. Gaden, Wills Johnson Professor of Chemical Engineering, with partial pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to continue to qualify for the incentive retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.\
Mr. James D. Hamilton, A. Willis Robertson Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at the University of California, San Diego.\
Mr. Stanley D. Henderson, F.D.G. Ribble Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, for educational purposes.\
Mr. William J. Kehoe, William F. O'Dell Professor of Commerce, with pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.\
Mr. Richard B. Lillich, Howard W. Smith Professor of Law, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, for educational purposes.\
Mr. Aram Vartanian, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of French Literature, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to do research.

(d) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)\
Dr. George A. Beller from Donald C. Barnes Professor of Cardiology in Internal Medicine to Ruth C. Heede Professor of Cardiology and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1992.\
Dr. Robert M. Epstein from Distinguished Professor of Anesthesiology to Harold Carron Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1992.\
Dr. Bruce J. Hillman from Distinguished Professor of Diagnostic Radiology to Theodore E. Keats Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1992.\
Mr. Thomas H. Jackson from Arnold H. Leon Professor of Law to Brokaw Professor of Corporate Law, effective July 1, 1992.\
Mr. William L. Miller from White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs Professor of Ethics and Institutions, Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, and Professor of Religious Studies to Commonwealth Professor of Political and Social Thought, effective September 1, 1992.\
Mr. John K. Whitaker from Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics to Georgia S. Bankard Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1992.

(e) Resignations of Chairholder(s)\
Mr. Thomas H. Courtney, William G. Reynolds Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, effective July 31, 1992, to accept another position.

(f) Appointments of Chairholder(s)\
Mr. O. Whitfield Broome as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.\
Mr. Ray C. Hunt as Associate Dean for External Affairs, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.

(g) Re-appointments of Chairholder(s)\
Dr. Robert M. Epstein as Chair, Department of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective October 1, 1992.

## RE-ELECTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:

* Ms. Mary P. Abouzeid as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Suresh Agarwal as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. George F. Alheid as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert W. Allen, Jr. as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Ernest G. Ammermann as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Pathology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Alan Aqualino as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Sarbjit S. Aujla as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Carlos A. Bacchetta as Visiting Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Donald G. Baker as Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Mr. Yongde Bao as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Theodore Batchman as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period June 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Mr. Harold W. Berk as Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Stuart S. Berr as Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John S. Blanco as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Susan H. Blanton as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, part time, for one year.
* Dr. Julie L. Blommel as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Linda K. Blum as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Dr. John C. Boatwright as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert J. Bookmiller as Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Professor of Architecture, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Francis J. Bourgeois as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Valentina L. Brashers as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Alan H. Bridle as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Ms. Bonny G. Bronson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert B. Brown as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert S. Brown as Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns as Research Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert Burnett as Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Suzanne M. Burns as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.
* Mr. Edwin T. Burton as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Richard M. Carpenter as Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Dr. Ranes C. Chakravorty as Professor of Surgery, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Philander D. Chase as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Janis C. Childs as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Ms. Jan M. Christoph as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Michael L. Coates as Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Jennifer E. Cobb as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Carl H. Cofer as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Ms. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Peter F. Cooper as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, DeJarnette Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Jamie L. Covell as Assistant Professor of Pathology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Marianne H. Cowley as Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. William H. Craft as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Govert A. Croes as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Mr. Edward J. Cukauskas as Visiting Research Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David Dabydeen as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Claudette E. Dalton as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for the period June 1, 1992 through November 30, 1992.
* Ms. Linda R. Davies as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1993.
* Mr. Russell H. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Marcia A. Delcourt as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Deborah D. Demicco as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Pamela D. Dennison as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.
* Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert Diamond as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Bertram Donn as Visiting Professor of Engineering Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. James J. Dowd, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Ms. Ellen Dunham-Jones as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Ann D. Dunn as Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Charles R. Edwards as Associate Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Thomas H. Eldridge as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. William S. Erwin as Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Zhichu Fang as Visiting Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period May 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992.
* Mr. Marc J. Feldman as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective October 1, 1992.
* Ms. Margo A. Figgins as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Murray H. Finley as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. M. G. Finn as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Kathryn C. Finnell as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Marcia D. Finney as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Tor A. Fjeldly as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period August 16, 1992 through August 31, 1992.
* Mr. Jorge A. Flores as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Edward B. Fomalont as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Hilton L. Fowler as Professor of Neurology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Arthur E. Freedlender as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Ms. Tanya Furman as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for two months, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Glenn A. Gaesser as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Ted R. Galbraith as Assistant Professor of Dentistry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Bruce D. Gaylinn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Vladimir G. Gelnovatch as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Teresa P. Germanson as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Amitav Ghosh as Visiting Scholar, Center for South Asian Studies, for the period April 1, 1992 through August 31, 1994.
* Dr. Carol M. Gilbert as Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Lawrence W. Gimple as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Clarice P. Gressard as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Charles W. Gross as Professor of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Patty J. Hale as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Ms. Melvina P. Hamilton as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Emily J. Hauenstein as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Gary L. Hawk as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert R. Heider as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Joanne M. Herbert as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Patricia B. Higgins as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Mr. Yunsheng Huang as Associate Professor of Architectural History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Kathleen M. Hudson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. James L. Hughes as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Frank P. Hunter as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Marcia A. Invernizzi as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert W. Irvin, Jr. as Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Tetsundo Iwakuni as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Michael J. Iwanik as Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Nabil F. Jarmukli as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Ananda R. Jayaweera as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Sheila M. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Kenneth I. Kellerman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Mr. Anthony R. Kerr as Research Professor of Astronomy, for three years, effective June 1, 1992, and Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. James R. Kerrigan as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period August 1, 1992 through June 30, 1993.
* Ms. Suzette M. Kimball as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 5, 1992.
* Ms. Marilyn G. King as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Ms. Valerie S. King as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Michael T. Kinter as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period July 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.
* Dr. Paul T. Klas as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective August 1, 1992.
* Mr. James R. Klein as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Joan E. Klein as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Lisa A. Kolp as Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Harold J. Krent as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. James J. Lanter as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. James M. Larner as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert B. Lechner as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Kwyro Lee as Visiting Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Virginia K. Lee as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.
* Mr. Robert S. Leventhal as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jules I. Levine as Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Jaqueline Lichtman as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for the period of August 16, 1992 through May 15, 1995.
* Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Jing W. Liu as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. John W. Lloyd as Research Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Mark A. Lovell as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Betsy A. Luxford as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Barbara J. Mann as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Megan Marlatt as Assistant Professor of Studio Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Felicia C. Marston as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Nancy L. McDaniel as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Shirley L. Menaker as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Janet J. Michie as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Antonia C. Mills as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Susan L. Mintz as Assistant Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Susan D. Moss as Associate Professor, General Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Jan P. Muizelaar as Visiting Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. William H. Myers as Visiting Scholar in Chemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Steven A. Newman as Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Gregg E. Newschwander as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1993.
* Mr. Frank D. Nidiffer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. George A. Nowacek as Associate Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Katherine B. Nuckolls as Visiting Professor in Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1993.
* Mr. Thomas J. O'Leary as Assistant Professor of Medical Education, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Gary H. Oberlender as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Justine E. Owens as Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Robert J. Pafford as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Shing-Kuo Pan as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Joseph J. Pancrazio as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Ms. Joanne H. Peach as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Dr. Erle E. Peacock, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Sonia Pearson-White as Research Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Dr. Marvin E. Perkins as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Catawba, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Richard A. Peterson as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John T. Philbrick as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Martin T. Phillips as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jesse R. Pitts as Visiting Scholar in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Frank V. Pollio as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Marian W. Pospieszalski as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert D. Powers as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Terrance W. Pratt as Research Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Thomas Pruzinsky as Visiting Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Lieutenant Colonel William A. Randall as Professor of Military Science, for the period June 19, 1992 through January 31, 1993.
* Mr. S. Waite Rawls, III as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. G. Carleton Ray as Research Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. John R. Redick as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Judson P. Reis as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Appavoo Rengasamy as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1992.
* Dr. Arie M. Rijke as Assistant Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Ellen A. Roberts as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Ms. Mary E. Ropka as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Mr. Alfredo H. Rosas-Peniche as Visiting Scholar in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Fred D. Rosi as Research Professor of Materials Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Dorothy F. Rudolph as Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Eduardo Rueda-Vasquez as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Beverly H. Runge as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Thomas V. Ryan as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Christopher F. Sacchi as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Hilary A. Sanfey as Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Nancy F. Santilli as Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Tomio Sasaki as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for two years, effective May 1, 1992.
* Mr. Peter M. Scharf as Lecturer in Religious Studies, part time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert A. Schwab as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Peter P. Sforza as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. John D. Shannon as Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Zhifeng Shao as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for the period August 16, 1992 through June 30, 1995.
* Mr. Jonathan I. Shiff as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Charles D. Smith as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective January 16, 1993.
* Mr. Steven Smith as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Thomas M. Smith as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective May 1, 1992.
* Dr. Cynthia A. Spaulding as Associate Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1992 through July 31, 1992.
* Dr. Thomas J. Spicuzza as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Douglas R. Spitz as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Kotteazeth Srikumar as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Melita Steiner as Research Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Ruth L. Stornetta as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Michael A. Stroscio as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. William M. Sutherland as Research Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Anthony R. Thompson as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Ms. Carol W. Tomlinson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. Dorothy G. Tompkins as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, part time, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Enrique R. Torre as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Patricia A. Trimmer as Research Assistant Professor of Neuroscience, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. June L. Triplett as Visiting Professor of Nursing, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1993.
* Dr. Jonathon D. Truwit as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Dr. Robert L. Turner, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Dorothy Twohig as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Paul A. Vanden Bout as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Ms. Diane E. Wakat as Associate Professor of Education, part time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. George W. Ward, Jr. as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Clyde M. Watson, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. James O. West as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period July 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.
* Mr. George F. Williams as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Brenda L. Wilson as Assistant Professor of Social Work, General Medical Center Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Brian Wispelwey as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Moses K. Woode as Associate Professor of Medical Education, for the period May 16, 1992 through June 30, 1992.
* Dr. Andrew M. Woods as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Henry A. Wooten as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective June 1, 1992.
* Mr. Yongbo Xu as Visiting Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, part time, for the period June 1, 1992 through September 30, 1992.
* Dr. Glenn R. Yank as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. J. Joe Yazel as Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Chuntong Ying as Visiting Research Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period August 15, 1992 through September 14, 1992.
* Ms. Joelle Zask as Visiting Scholar in Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jose S. de Olmos as Visiting Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.

## PROMOTIONS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:

* Dr. John T. Allen from Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Paul A. Carmichael from Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Thomas L. Gorsuch from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Richard J. Grayson, Jr. from Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Doris M. Haverstick from Instructor in Pathology to Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Thomas R. Henretta from Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John E. Humphries from Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective May 1, 1992.
* Dr. William H. Humphries from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Stephen S. Kennedy from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Edith G. Lawrence from Clinical Assistant Professor of Education to Clinical Associate Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1992.
* Dr. John S. Minasi from Instructor in Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John E. Morgan from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. Jonathon Z. Schuch from Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1992.
* Mr. David E. Smith from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1994.
* Dr. John W. Starr, III from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. W. Graham Stephens from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. Richard M. Surrusco from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Ms. Valerie O. Sutter from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1992.
* Dr. John B. Sydnor from Clinical Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1992.

## LEAVES OF ABSENCE

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:

* Mr. Simon P. Anderson, Associate Professor of Economics, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to teach at Charles University in Prague.
* Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Professor, General Faculty, without pay, for the period June 2, 1992 through June 1, 1993, to serve as President of the Southeastern Universities Research Association.
* Mr. Michael E. Brint, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to teach at Kenyon College.
* Mr. Avery Catlin, University Professor of Engineering, without pay, for the period January 16, 1993 through May 31, 1993, to continue to qualify for the phased retirement plan as approved by the Board of Visitors.
* Mr. Alon Confino, Acting Assistant Professor of History, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, to do research.
* Ms. Ellen Contini-Morava, Associate Professor of Anthropology, without pay, for the period September 1, 1992 through January 15, 1993, to do research.
* Mr. Stephen B. Cushman, Associate Professor of English, with partial pay, for the period January
