<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes (1995) February 4, 1995

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 4, 1995

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS FEBRUARY 4-5, 1995

### Faculty Personnel Actions:

#### Elections

* Election of Chairholders
* Changes of Title of Chairholders
* Special Salary Action of Chairholders
* Retirement of Chairholders
* Promotions
* Changes of Title
* Special Salary Actions
* Resignations
* Retirements
* Appointments
* Re-Appointments
* Election of Professors Emeriti
* Election of Associate Professors Emeriti
* Changes in Titles
* Change in Promotion
* Re-Election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Acting Vice President for Health Sciences
* Clinch Valley College - Special Salary Action
* Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors
* Establishment of the Julian Bishko Professorship in History
* Establishment of the Louis T. Rader Professorship in Electrical Engineering
* Announcement of Fundraising Effort to Establish the N. Thomas Connally Eminent Scholars Professorship in Clinical Excellence
* Re-Election of Miller Center Council Members
* Approval of the Board of Visitors Representative to the Governing Board of the Friends of Blandy Farm Foundation
* Appointment of Member to the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council
* Approval of Clinch Valley College Admissions Standards
* Approval to Establish a Joint Venture Corporation Between the University of Virginia Medical Center and the University of Virginia Health Services Foundation
* Approval of Construction Easement for CJS, LLC Across University of Virginia Property on the West Side of Millmont Street
* Approval of Sale of University Property Located in Appomattox
* Approval to Provide Employer-Paid Health Insurance to Part-Time, Salaried Health Care Professionals
* Approval of Increase in Summer Session Rates for 1995-96
* Approval of Student Housing Rates for 1995-96 for the Academic Division
* Declaration of Milton Airport as Surplus Property
* Approval of Summary of Audit Reports
* Approval of Reporting Relationships and Supervisory Structure for Dual Employment Situations

### Gifts, Grants and Contracts

Approval to Enter into a Partnership Relationship with HEALTHSOUTH Corporation for the Provision of Medical Rehabilitation Services

## Resolution Regarding the Honor Committee

### THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 4, 1995

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 12:55 p.m., on Friday, February 3, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, W. L. Lyons Brown, Jr., Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., N. Thomas Connally, Warner N. Dalhouse, Daniel A. Hoffler, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Mrs. Patricia M. Kluge, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 2:15 p.m., on Saturday, February 4, 1995, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, Ms. Allison S. Linney, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Albert H. Small. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, L. Jay Lemons and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Executive Session, at 11:00 a.m., on Sunday, February 5, 1995, in the President's Conference Room of Madison Hall with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, N. Thomas Connally and C. Wilson McNeely, III. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., James J. Mingle, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, William W. Harmon, Robert T. Canevari, Earl Dudley, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of November 11-12, 1994, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

## MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (7) of The Code of Virginia. (b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including the Law School, the Medical School, the Pharmacy - Nursing Responsibilities, the Hospital Storeroom, Information Technology and Communications - Data Security, and the Anthropology Petty Cash, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia. (c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (1) of The Code of Virginia. (d) That the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing potential contractual transactions and investment initiatives involving the Health Sciences Center, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A) (6) and (8) of The Code of Virginia. (e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of The Code of Virginia.

The full Board recessed at 1:00 p.m., on Friday, February 3, 1995; following Committee meetings and an Executive Session of the full Board, the meeting of the full Board was resumed in Open Session at 2:15 p.m., on Saturday, February 4, 1995. The full Board recessed at 2:45 p.m., and the meeting was resumed in Executive Session as a meeting of the Executive Committee at 11:00 a.m., on Sunday, February 5, 1995. The Executive Committee resumed in Open Session at 12:30 p.m., and adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

## FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS

Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead abstained from voting.

### Elections

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty: Ms. Patricia P. Biller as Associate Professor of Law, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1995. Mr. Matthew J. Combs as Assistant Professor of Research in Radiology, for the period November 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995. Dr. J. Alexander Crane as Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, for two years, effective July 25, 1994. Dr. Joyce B. Geilker as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Keith K. Hunt, Jr. as Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Raymond E. Keller as Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1995. Dr. Steven M. Koenig as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1994. Dr. Charles W. Miller as Professor of Clinical Orthopaedic Surgery, for three years, effective September 19, 1994. Ms. Suzanne M. Moenter as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective November 1, 1994. Dr. Geoffrey Nixon Morris as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective November 1, 1994. Dr. Suzanne M. Pitts as Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective July 16, 1994. Dr. Mark K. Robbins as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective September 15, 1994. Dr. Mark E. Shaffrey as Assistant Professor of Clinical Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Timothy Stenson as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for the period January 1, 1995 through May 31, 1998. Dr. Peter A. Stoddart as Assistant Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology, for one year, effective June 1, 1994. Dr. Charles T. Thornsvard as Associate Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Ms. Mary E. Van Verst as Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for the period November 7, 1994 through June 30, 1995. Mr. David J. Verardo as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective October 1, 1994. Ms. Mary Kate Worden as Assistant Professor of Research in Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, for three years, effective September 1, 1994.

### Actions Relating to Chairholders

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below: (a) Election of Chairholder(s) Mr. Gerald P. Fogarty as William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1994. Mr. Fogarty will continue as Professor of History, without term. Ms. Andrea Leers as Harry S. Shure Professor of Architecture, for the period March 20, 1995 through May 12, 1995. (b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s) Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr. from Elson Professor of Architecture to Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1994. (c) Retirements of Chairholder(s)

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Fredrick has been a member of the faculty since February 1, 1963.

### Promotions

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members are hereby promoted: Dr. Thomas A. Massaro from Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1994. Ms. Lisa K. Rollins from Lecturer in Medical Education, General Faculty to Assistant Professor of Research in Medical Education, for two years, effective December 1, 1994.

### Changes of Title

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title are hereby made: Mr. Suresh Agarwal from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Stuart S. Berr from Research Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Mark A. Brown from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Richard A. Christoph from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Susan A. Dilks from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Charles G. Durbin, Jr. from Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Mr. Patrick C. Fowler from Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. William R. Hobbs from Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Stuart M. Lowson from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for two years, effective June 1, 1994. Ms. Barbara J. Mann from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Robert S. Michel from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Victoria F. Norwood from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. John P. Pelegano from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. JoAnn V. Pinkerton from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. William T. Ross, Jr. from Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Worthington G. Schenk, III from Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Theresa Schlager from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for two years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Siva Thiagarajah from Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Peter E. Waldron from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through August 31, 1996. Mr. William F. Whelan from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through December 31, 1994. Dr. Douglas F. Willson from Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through September 30, 1994. Dr. Barbara B. Wilson from Associate Professor of Dermatology, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1994. Dr. Horacio F. Zaglul from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1994 through March 31, 1995.

### Resignations

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Russell G. Foster, Assistant Professor of Biology, effective August 31, 1995, to accept another position. Ms. Elizabeth B. Lowe, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective June 30, 1995, for personal reasons. Dr. Michael A. Okin, Associate Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, effective November 30, 1994, to accept another position. Dr. Robert A. Schwab, Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, effective June 10, 1994, to accept another position.

### Retirements

The following retirements were announced: Dr. Robert E. Berry, Professor of Surgery, effective September 30, 1994. Dr. Berry has been a member of the faculty since July 1, 1971. Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. Bice has been a member of the faculty since September 16, 1948. Mr. Kenneth Chastain, Professor of Spanish, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Chastain has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1973. Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Hauser has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1960. Mr. Charles R. Kaut, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Kaut has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1961. Mr. Shiv Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Kumar has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964. Mr. William Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Little has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966. Mr. Robert Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, effective December 31, 1995. Mr. Martin has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1959. Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Paige has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1957. Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Stoudt has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1966. Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, effective December 1, 1994. Mr. Volk has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1951. Mr. Theodore R.F. Wright, Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Wright has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1965. Mr. Klaus O.H. Ziock, Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Ziock has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1962.

### Appointments

The following appointments were announced: Mr. James A. Knight as Associate Vice President for Health Sciences Development, for three years, effective December 1, 1994.

### Re-appointments

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Michael J. Halseth, as Executive Director, Medical Center, for the period February 1, 1995 through June 30, 2000. Mr. Philip M. Nowlen, as Dean, Division of Continuing Education, for four years, effective January 1, 1995.

### Election of Professors Emeriti

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus: Dr. Robert E. Berry, Professor of Surgery, effective September 30, 1994. Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Professor of Psychology, effective January 15, 1995. Mr. Kenneth Chastain, Professor of Spanish, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick, John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Charles R. Kaut, Professor of Anthropology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. William Little, Professor of German, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Robert Bruce Martin, Professor of Chemistry, effective January 1, 1995. Mr. Eugene C. Paige, Professor of Mathematics, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Wesley A. Volk, Professor of Microbiology, effective December 1, 1994. Mr. Theodore R.F. Wright, Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Klaus O.H. Ziock, Professor of Physics, effective May 31, 1995.

### Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Associate Professor Emeritus: Mr. Robert L. Ellison, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective May 31, 1990. Mr. Walter Hauser, Associate Professor of History, effective May 31, 1995. Mr. Shiv Kumar, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective May 31, 1998. Mr. Ralph J. Stoudt, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1995.

## CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. JAMES R. BROOKEMAN

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. James R. Brookeman from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Radiology, for the period July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows: Mr. James R. Brookeman from Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty to Professor of Research in Radiology, for the period July 16, 1994 through June 30, 1995.

## CHANGE IN THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. CHANG S. HAHN

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the change of title of Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective April 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows: Mr. Chang S. Hahn from Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for the period April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997.

## CHANGE IN THE PROMOTION OF MR. PAUL L. HUNDLEY

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the promotion of Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Clinical Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 12, 1994, be changed to read as follows: Mr. Paul L. Hundley from Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatric Medicine to Associate Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1994.

## Re-election of Dr. Robert W. Cantrell as Acting Vice President for Health Sciences

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. Robert W. Cantrell be and he is hereby re-elected as Acting Vice President and Provost for Health Sciences, for one year, effective January 1, 1995.

## APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS

On motion of Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin, Acting Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Matthew W. Cooper as the non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors for one year, effective April 9, 1995.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JULIAN BISHKO PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the College of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Julian Bishko Professorship in History. The Board is grateful to an anonymous donor who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LOUIS T. RADER PROFESSORSHIP IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Engineering and Applied Science a Chair to be known as the Louis T. Rader Professorship in Electrical Engineering. The Board is grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Bokan, Mr. Raymond J. Noorda, and various other donors who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

## ANNOUNCEMENT OF FUNDRAISING EFFORT TO ESTABLISH THE N. THOMAS CONNALLY EMINENT SCHOLARS PROFESSORSHIP IN CLINICAL EXCELLENCE

The President announced that patients and friends of Dr. N. Thomas Connally have begun to raise funds effort to establish a University of Virginia medical professorship in his honor. To be known as the N. Thomas Connally Eminent Scholars Professorship of Clinical Excellence, this Chair will recognize the important connection between the primary care physician and the tertiary care specialist. The chairholder will be a clinician of national reputation who has an exceptional record of clinical achievement.

Drs. Alam and Mimi Miran of Leesburg, Virginia, are leading the fundraising effort. Dr. Alam Miran has been Dr. Connally's patient.

The President noted that no Board action on this Chair was necessary at the moment, but he wanted Board members to know of the proposed Chair and to join in celebrating this extraordinary recognition of Dr. Connally.

The Rector commented that he had worked with Dr. Connally for five years, and that the Chair will be a wonderful testimony to Dr. Connally's love for the University and the Health Sciences Center.

## RE-ELECTION OF MILLER CENTER COUNCIL MEMBERS

The following resolutions were adopted: (a) RESOLVED that The Honorable Griffin B. Bell is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for five years, effective February 3, 1995. (b) RESOLVED that The Honorable Warren E. Burger is hereby re-elected to the White Burkett Miller Center Council, for three years, effective February 3, 1995.

## APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVE TO THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE FRIENDS OF BLANDY FARM FOUNDATION

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Mr. David C. Benjamin be approved as the representative of the Board of Visitors to the governing board of the Friends of Blandy Farm Foundation.

## APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADVISORY COUNCIL

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS a member of the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council has resigned, leaving an unexpired term; and WHEREAS the Nominating Committee of the Council is responsible for nominating an individual to fill this post; and WHEREAS the Nominating Committee has recommended Mr. Bryan L. Wolcott to serve as a member; and WHEREAS Mr. Wolcott, Vice President and General Manager of Equitable Resources Exploration, has expressed a desire to serve the College; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Mr. Bryan L. Wolcott is hereby appointed to the Clinch Valley College Advisory Council for a term ending June 30, 1997.

## APPROVAL OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE ADMISSIONS STANDARDS

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires that general admissions policies must be established by the governing board of an institution; and WHEREAS the University of Virginia Board of Visitors serves as the governing board of Clinch Valley College; and WHEREAS Clinch Valley College's admissions policy is that the College seeks to admit students whose intellectual ability, preparation, and seriousness of purpose indicate potential for success in the programs of study offered; NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the admissions standards of Clinch Valley College.

## APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A JOINT VENTURE CORPORATION BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HEALTH SERVICES FOUNDATION

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation have reviewed issues associated with remaining competitive in the changing health care market; and WHEREAS the recommendation of the management of these two organizations is that it would be desirable to form partnerships among the two organizations, other providers and businesses, and to allow the institution to respond quickly to marketplace opportunities; and WHEREAS the 1994 Commonwealth of Virginia legislation pertaining to the operations of the Medical Center (Section 23-77.3 of The Code of Virginia) grants authority to create joint ventures; and WHEREAS it is proposed that the University and the Foundation jointly form a new corporation to conduct activities that are externally oriented and require partnerships between the Medical Center and the Health Services Foundation and potentially other partners; RESOLVED that the University participate with the Health Services Foundation in establishing a non-profit corporation subject to the University's Policy on University-related Foundations and any other provisions that the President deems appropriate to monitor the activities of the corporation, to offer new services and enter into partnerships with other organizations to provide health care services in the region; RESOLVED FURTHER that the University invest $4,000,000, from the Medical Center to capitalize the corporation; RESOLVED FURTHER that The Executive Committee and the Health Affairs Committee of the Board of Visitors be authorized to approve articles of incorporation, by-laws and any additional items associated with creation of the corporation, including composition of the corporation's board of directors.

## APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT FOR CJS, LLC ACROSS UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPERTY ON THE WEST SIDE OF MILLMONT STREET

(Mr. Franklin K. Birckhead abstained from voting).

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement dated February 3, 1995, between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and CJS, LLC, a local developer, which grants temporary access to the property to 1) place an agreed amount of fill dirt in an agreed upon location and configuration, and 2) to regrade the area joint property line according to agreed upon plans to address storm water management issues and 3) place a drainage pipe on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, located in the North Grounds precinct adjacent to the Department of Parking and Transportation Services building and lot, is approved; RESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said deed of easement.

## APPROVAL OF SALE OF UNIVERSITY PROPERTY LOCATED IN APPOMATTOX

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Section 23-77.1 of The Code of Virginia gives The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia authority to sell and convey real estate to which the University has acquired title by gift; and WHEREAS The Rector and Visitors of the University acquired by Will a residential property in Appomattox, Virginia, consisting of a house and approximately four acres for the benefit of the Lupus Clinic in the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center; RESOLVED that the property be declared surplus to the needs of the University and that it be sold; and RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said declaration and deed of sale with the understanding that the proceeds from the sale will remain an asset of The Rector and Visitors of the University for the benefit of the Lupus Clinic.

## APPROVAL TO PROVIDE EMPLOYER-PAID HEALTH INSURANCE TO PART-TIME, SALARIED HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that access to employer-paid health insurance for part-time (at least 20 hours per week), salaried Health Care Professionals be approved, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of Education of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to become effective on or after March 1, 1995.

## APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION RATES FOR 1995-96

| Actual 1994 | Amount of Increase | Percent Increase | Proposed 1995 |
|-------------|--------------------|------------------|----------------|
| TUITION     |                    |                  |                |
| Virginian (per semester hour) | $128.00 | $4.00 | 3.1% | $132.00 |
| Non-Virginian (per semester hour) | $410.00 | $24.00 | 5.9% | $434.00 |
| Thesis/Dissertation Research | $384.00 | $12.00 | 3.1% | $396.00 |
| Appellate Judges Program | $1,152.00 | $36.00 | 3.1% | $1,188.00 |
| Non-Resident Fee | $55.00 | $2.00 | 3.6% | $57.00 |
| COMPREHENSIVE FEE | | | | |
| Newcomb Hall | $9.00 | $1.00 | 11.1% | $10.00 |
| Student Health | $45.00 | $1.00 | 2.2% | $46.00 |
| Transportation | $10.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $10.00 |
| TOTAL COMP. FEES | $64.00 | $2.00 | 3.1% | $66.00 |
| OTHER FEES | | | | |
| Late Payment Fee | $25.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $25.00 |
| Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee | $35.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $35.00 |

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.

| Lab Use Fee | $69.00 | $2.00 | 2.82% | $71.00 |
|--------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week) | Senior Investigators | $200.00 | $6.00 | 2.91% | $206.00 |
| | Co-Investigators | $50.00 | $2.00 | 3.85% | $52.00 |
| | Graduate Students | $50.00 | $2.00 | 3.85% | $52.00 |

### MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

| Each person 17 years of age & older | $390.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $390.00 |
|--------------------------------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Each Person 10-16 years of age      | $250.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $250.00 |
| Each Person 9 years of age & younger | $155.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $155.00 |

| Actual 1994 | Amount of Increase | Percent Increase | Proposed 1995 |
|-------------|--------------------|------------------|----------------|
| MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS) | | | | |
| Dormitories | $96.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $96.00 |
| Laing Singles | $96.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $96.00 |
| Laing Center | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| North | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| South | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| Northwest | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| West | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |

| Cottages | | | | |
| Hentz-Mohr | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Clayton | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Catesby | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Gattinger | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Michaux | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With Kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Burns | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With Kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Washington | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Banister | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| LeConte | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Hariot | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Schoew | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Maphis | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Holbrook | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Mitchell | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Rafinesque | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |

| New Dorm | | | | |
| Singles | $103.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $103.00 |
| Apartments (two rooms) | $155.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $155.00 |
| Second Bedroom (Family) | $50.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $50.00 |

### OFF-SEASON RATES

| Singles (Nightly) | $8.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $8.00 |
|------------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Singles (Weekly) | $40.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $40.00 |
| Singles (Monthly) | $160.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $160.00 |
| Family (Nightly) | $12.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $12.00 |
| Family (Weekly) | $60.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $60.00 |
| Family (Monthly) | $240.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $240.00 |

### SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)

| Hereford College | | | | |
| Per Student, per week, double | $48.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $48.00 |
| Per Student, per week, single | $60.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $60.00 |

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1995:

| Actual 1994 | Amount of Increase | Percent Increase | Proposed 1995 |
|-------------|--------------------|------------------|----------------|
| TUITION     |                    |                  |                |
| Virginian (per semester hour) | $128.00 | $4.00 | 3.1% | $132.00 |
| Non-Virginian (per semester hour) | $410.00 | $24.00 | 5.9% | $434.00 |
| Thesis/Dissertation Research | $384.00 | $12.00 | 3.1% | $396.00 |
| Appellate Judges Program | $1,152.00 | $36.00 | 3.1% | $1,188.00 |
| Non-Resident Fee | $55.00 | $2.00 | 3.6% | $57.00 |
| COMPREHENSIVE FEE |                    |                  |                |
| Newcomb Hall | $9.00 | $1.00 | 11.1% | $10.00 |
| Student Health | $45.00 | $1.00 | 2.2% | $46.00 |
| Transportation | $10.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $10.00 |
| TOTAL COMP. FEES | $64.00 | $2.00 | 3.1% | $66.00 |
| OTHER FEES |                    |                  |                |
| Late Payment Fee | $25.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $25.00 |
| Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee | $35.00 | $0.00 | 0.0% | $35.00 |

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.

| Lab Use Fee | $69.00 | $2.00 | 2.82% | $71.00 |
|--------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Non Univ. of Virginia Researchers: (Per week) | Senior Investigators | $200.00 | $6.00 | 2.91% | $206.00 |
| | Co-Investigators | $50.00 | $2.00 | 3.85% | $52.00 |
| | Graduate Students | $50.00 | $2.00 | 3.85% | $52.00 |

### MT LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

| Each person 17 years of age & older | $390.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $390.00 |
|--------------------------------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Each Person 10-16 years of age      | $250.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $250.00 |
| Each Person 9 years of age & younger | $155.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $155.00 |

| Actual 1994 | Amount of Increase | Percent Increase | Proposed 1995 |
|-------------|--------------------|------------------|----------------|
| MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS) | | | | |
| Dormitories | $96.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $96.00 |
| Laing Singles | $96.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $96.00 |
| Laing Center | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| North | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| South | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| Northwest | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |
| West | $135.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $135.00 |

| Cottages | | | | |
| Hentz-Mohr | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Clayton | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Catesby | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Gattinger | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Michaux | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With Kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Burns | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| With Kitchen | $225.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $225.00 |
| Washington | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Banister | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Le Conte | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Hariot | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Schoew | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Maphis | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Holbrook | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Mitchell | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |
| Rafinesque | $180.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $180.00 |

| New Dorm | | | | |
| Singles | $103.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $103.00 |
| Apartments (two rooms) | $155.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $155.00 |
| Second Bedroom (Family) | $50.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $50.00 |

### OFF-SEASON RATES

| Singles (Nightly) | $8.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $8.00 |
|------------------|---------|--------|--------|--------|
| Singles (Weekly) | $40.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $40.00 |
| Singles (Monthly) | $160.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $160.00 |
| Family (Nightly) | $12.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $12.00 |
| Family (Weekly) | $60.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $60.00 |
| Family (Monthly) | $240.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $240.00 |

### SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)

| Hereford College | | | | |
| Per Student, per week, double | $48.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $48.00 |
| Per Student, per week, single | $60.00 | $0.00 | 0.00% | $60.00 |
