Board of Visitors minutes (1996) April 12, 1996
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 12, 1996

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 12, 1996
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 2:10 p.m., on Friday, April 12, 1996, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, William H. Goodwin, T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Albert H. Small, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy and Henry L. Valentine, II. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes were also present.

The Rector called the Board into session at the conclusion of the Founder's Day Lunch.

The President proposed a resolution honoring Mr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., President-Emeritus of the University.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION TO EDGAR FINLEY SHANNON, JR.
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr., was born in Lexington, and took degrees from Washington and Lee University, Duke University, Harvard University, and Merton College, Oxford University, before joining the faculty of the University of Virginia as an Associate Professor of English in 1956; andWHEREAS, Mr. Shannon became both Professor of English and fourth President of the University of Virginia in 1959; andWHEREAS, Mr. Shannon served with great distinction as President until 1974, giving the leadership which has made the University an institution of national prominence; andWHEREAS, Mr. Shannon has received numerous honors in this country and abroad for his scholarship and his leadership; andWHEREAS, it has been the custom for many years to honor a member of the University community by planting a tree on the Grounds on Founder's Day; andWHEREAS, the tree this year, a white ash to be planted on the east side of the Lawn, is in honor of Mr. Shannon;RESOLVED, The Board of Visitors congratulates Edgar Finley Shannon, Jr., on this most recent mark of the esteem in which he is held in this community, and thanks him once again for his devoted and distinguished service to the University of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 2:15 p.m.

AGG:jb