Board of Visitors minutes (1996) February 10, 1996
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

February 10, 1996

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS February 10, 1996
--------------------------------------------------------------

Faculty Personnel Actions:

Elections

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Promotion

Change of Title

Resignations

Retirements

Appointments

Re-Appointment

Election of Professors Emeriti

Deaths

Change in the Election of Mr. Leland W.K. Chung

Change in the Election of Ms. Haiyen E. Zhau

Election of Dr. Don E. Detmer as Senior Vice President

Clinch Valley College - Retirement Election of Professor Emeritus

Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors

Establishment of the Earle K. Shawe Professorship in Employment Law

Establishment of the S. Ward Casscells Professorship in Orthopedic Surgery

Acceptance of Report on Gifts, Grants and Contracts

Virginia Institute of Government

Approval of Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Boards of University-Related Foundations

Recognition of the Effort and Dedication of University Employees During the Blizzard of 1996

Approval of Support of Neighboring Land Owner's Petition to Close the End of 10 1/2 Street Located North of West Main Street

Approval of Conveyance of Temporary Use and Permanent Ownership of University Land to the Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) to Support the 9th-10th Street Connector Project

Approval of Student Housing Rates for 1996-97 for the Academic Division

Approval of Increase in Summer Session Rates for 1996-1997

Approval to Procure a Replacement Cardiac Catheterization Lab Including Equipment and Associated Renovations in the Medical Center

Approval of Summary of Audit Reports

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA February 10, 1996
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 10:25 a.m., on Friday, February 9, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Daniel A. Hoffler, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, Albert H. Small, and Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, Don E. Detmer, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 2:20 p.m., on Saturday, February 10, 1996, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Hovey S. Dabney, Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, Franklin K. Birckhead, Robert G. Butcher, Jr., Mortimer M. Caplin, Charles M. Caravati, Jr., Matthew W. Cooper, Warner N. Dalhouse, T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Evans B. Jessee, Arnold H. Leon, C. Wilson McNeely, III, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie, and Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy. John T. Casteen, III, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., Peter W. Low, Robert W. Cantrell, Ms. Polley McClure, Ms. Colette Capone, Robert D. Sweeney, Ernest H. Ern, William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne F. Bailes were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of November 11, 1995, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------------------

The following motions were adopted unanimously by the vote of all voting Visitors present: (a) That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of consulting with the General Counsel concerning certain pending and potential litigation involving the University, as well as specific legal matters requiring the advice of counsel, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a.(7) of The Code of Virginia.(b) That the Audit Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing and considering reports and recommendations of the University Auditor related to the recently completed fiscal audits and performance evaluations of certain University departments and programs, including Facilities Management Procurement Practices, Facilities Management Landscape Division, and the Athletic Department's Business Operations, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a.(1) of The Code of Virginia.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific faculty members of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.1-344 a.(1) of The Code of Virginia.(d) That the Special Committee on the Nomination of a Non-Voting Student on the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for the purpose of considering the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.1-344 a.(1) of The Code of Virginia.

Following Committee meetings and a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session of the full Board resumed at 2:40 p.m., on Saturday, February 10, 1996.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Joseph A. Aloi as Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, for three years, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Peter Berg as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective January 16, 1996.Mr. Michael B. Blank as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period November 1, 1995 through May 31, 1998.Dr. Gerald L. Brown as Professor of Psychiatric Medicine, for one year, effective November 1, 1995.Mr. William R. Callender as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective November 6, 1995.Mr. Mikhail I. Diakonov as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, for one month, effective September 1, 1995.Mr. J. Hunter Downs, III as Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, for one year, effective September 25, 1995.Mr. Frederick R. Heisterman as Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, for the period October 23, 1995.Dr. John D. Hendrix, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective January 1, 1996.Ms. Elizabeth I. Merwin as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Wladek Minor as Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology & Biological Physics, for five years, effective December 1, 1995.Ms. Lynne A. Opperman as Assistant Professor of Research in Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective October 1, 1995.Dr. James W. Patterson as Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1996.Mr. Eduardo A. Perozo as Assistant Professor of Molecular Physiology & Biological Physics, for three years, effective December 1, 1995.Mr. Mark J. Rozell as Research Associate Professor, for the period February 1, 1996 through July 31, 1996.Dr. Richard J. Santen as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective November 1, 1995.Dr. Anon Srikiatkhachorn as Assistant Professor of Research in Pediatrics, for one year, effective October 18, 1995.Mr. Douglas P. Wagner as Professor of Health Evaluation Sciences, effective November 1, 1995.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders are hereby approved as shown below:(a) Election of Chairholder(s)Mr. Gordon M. Braden as John C. Coleman Professor of English, effective January 1, 1996.Dr. Don E. Detmer as Louise Nerancy Professor of Health Sciences Policy, effective January 1, 1996. Dr. Detmer will continue as Professor of Surgery, without term, and University Professor of Health Policy, without term.Dr. William A. Knaus as Evelyn Troup Hobson Professor in Health Evaluation Sciences, effective November 1, 1995.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson as William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of English, effective January 1, 1996.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr. as James M. Moss Professor in Diabetes, effective October 16, 1995. Dr. Owen will continue as Professor of Internal Medicine, without term.(b) Changes of Title of Chairholder(s)Dr. Fritz E. Dreifuss from Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., Eminent Scholars Research Professor in Epileptology and Neurology to Thomas E. Worrell, Jr., Professor in Epileptology and Neurology, effective November 11, 1995.Dr. Richard F. Edlich from Distinguished Professor in Plastic Surgery to Raymond F. Morgan Professor in Plastic Surgery, effective November 11, 1995. Dr. Edlich will continue as Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without term.(c) Resignations of Chairholder(s)

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert J. Mattauch, B.P. America Professor of Science and Technology, effective December 31, 1995, to accept another position.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty member is hereby promoted:Mr. Michael A. Spar from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for the period June 1, 1995 through June 30, 1996.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following change of title is hereby made:Ms. Lois C. Knowles from Lecturer, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1995.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Bruce Arena, Instructor, General Faculty, effective January 15, 1996, to accept another position.Mr. Michael L. Fisher, Assistant Professor of Clinical Psychiatric Medicine, effective August 31, 1995, for personal reasons.Dr. William T. Katz, Assistant Professor of Research in Neurosurgery, effective September 15, 1995, to accept another position.Ms. Virginia K. Lee, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, effective December 31, 1995, to accept another position.Mr. William D. Ling, Assistant Professor of Research in Psychiatric Medicine, effective March 1, 1996, for personal reasons.Dr. Carole A. Sable, Assistant Professor of Clinical Internal Medicine, effective December 18, 1995, for personal reasons.Mr. James Frank Salevan, III, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective September 28, 1995, for personal reasons.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Vincent C. Cibbarelli, Associate Professor, General Faculty, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Cibbarelli has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1992.Dr. Philip H. Cooper, Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1996. Dr. Cooper has been a member of the faculty since June 16, 1978.Mr. John F. Mesinger, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1996. Mr. Mesinger has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1964.Ms. Beverly H. Runge, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective October 1, 1995. Ms. Runge has been a member of the faculty since October 1, 1970.Dr. Edward C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1995. Dr. Wilson has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1965.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Virginia E. Bergland as Interim Managing Director, Information, Technology and Communication, for one year, effective January 1, 1996.Mr. Richard C. Kast as Associate General Counsel, for four years, effective January 1, 1996.Ms. Teresa W. Lockard as Senior Project Specialist, for the period December 11, 1995 through June 30, 1998.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Richard A. Kovatch as Assistant Vice President for Business Operations, for three years, effective January 1, 1996.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Philip H. Cooper, Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1996.Mr. John F. Mesinger, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1996.

DEATHS
------

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MR. LELAND W.K. CHUNG
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Leland W.K. Chung as Professor of Urology, effective October 1, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 11, 1995, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Leland W.K. Chung as Professor of Urology, effective November 1, 1995.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MS. HAIYEN E. ZHAU
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Ms. Haiyen E. Zhau as Associate Professor of Urology, effective September 1, 1995, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of November 11, 1995, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Haiyen E. Zhau as Associate Professor of Urology, effective October 1, 1995.

ELECTION OF DR. DON E. DETMER AS SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that Dr. Don E. Detmer be and he is hereby elected as Senior Vice President, for the period January 1, 1996 through June 30, 1998.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGERETIREMENT
-------------------------------

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Mel J. Mahony, Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective January 1, 1996. Mr. Mahony has been a member of the faculty since September 1, 1969.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following person is hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Mel J. Mahony, Professor of English, Clinch Valley College, effective January 1, 1996.

APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

On motion of Mr. C. Wilson McNeely, III, Chair of the Special Committee on Nominating a Non-Voting Student to the Board of Visitors, the Board elected Mr. Sean N. Bryant as the non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors, for one year, effective April 12, 1996.

The Rector asked Mr. McNeely to introduce Mr. Bryant to the Board.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EARLE K. SHAWE PROFESSORSHIP IN EMPLOYMENT LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Law a Chair to be known as the Earle K. Shawe Professorship in Employment Law, this Chair to become effective upon completion of funding. The Board is grateful to Mr. Earle K. Shawe who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE S. WARD CASSCELLS PROFESSORSHIP IN ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the S. Ward Casscells Professorship in Orthopedic Surgery. The Board is grateful to Mrs. S. Ward Casscells who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported on Gifts, Grants, and Contracts. The Report was accepted by the Board.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT
-----------------------

The President gave a brief report on the recent visit and report of the accreditation committee for the University. The University, he said, received a good report, although the committee expressed serious concern about the lack of improvement in faculty salaries. Clinch Valley College also received a good report and the committee was particularly complimentary of the Chancellor. Faculty salaries at Clinch Valley, however, were also a concern of the committee.

VIRGINIA INSTITUTE OF GOVERNMENT
--------------------------------

The President told the Board that the General Assembly last year authorized the establishment of the Virginia Institute of Government to provide training and research services for local governments in the Commonwealth. In the present Session of the General Assembly, there is legislation in committee which would codify the Institute and establish a governing board answering to the Board of Visitors.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Virginia Institute of Government shall be advised by a board specially appointed by the President of the University in accord with principles described in Attachment A, entitled Virginia Institute of Government Advisory Committee.

APPROVAL OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVES TO THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF UNIVERSITY-RELATED FOUNDATIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Alumni Association of the UVA

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Alumni Board of Trustees of the UVA Endowment Fund

Robert V. Hatcher, Jr.

Virginia Auxiliary Services Fdn

William C. Battle

Boar's Head Enterprises, Inc.

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

Clinch Valley College Fdn

J. Thomas Hulvey

Curry School of Education Fdn

Elizabeth D. Morie

Darden School Fdn

Lemuel E. Lewis

Friends of the UVA's Blandy Experimental Farm

David C. Benjamin

HealthCare Partners, Inc.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

UVA Health Services Fdn

Paul H. Wood

Historic Renovation Corp.

David W. Carr

UVA Law School Fdn

Mortimer M. Caplin

McIntire School of Commerce Fdn

Elizabeth A. Twohy

UVA Medical School Fdn

N. Thomas Connally

Miller Center Fdn

Hovey S. Dabney

UVA Patents Fdn

Haydn Wadley

UVA Fdn

Hovey S. Dabney

University Real Estate Fdn

Hovey S. Dabney

Virginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.

William E. Carter, Jr.

Virginia Engineering Fdn

C. Wilson McNeely, III

Virginia Kidney Stone Fdn

Jay Y. Gillenwater

Virginia Student Aid Fdn

M. Terry Holland

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons are approved as representatives of the Board of Visitors to the governing boards of the following University-related foundations:Alumni Association of the UVAC. Wilson McNeely, IIIAlumni Board of Trustees of the UVA Endowment FundRobert V. Hatcher, Jr.Virginia Auxiliary Services FdnWilliam C. BattleBoar's Head Enterprises, Inc.Robert G. Butcher, Jr.Clinch Valley College FdnJ. Thomas HulveyCurry School of Education FdnElizabeth D. MorieDarden School FdnLemuel E. LewisFriends of the UVA's Blandy Experimental FarmDavid C. BenjaminHealthCare Partners, Inc.Charles M. Caravati, Jr.UVA Health Services FdnPaul H. WoodHistoric Renovation Corp.David W. CarrUVA Law School FdnMortimer M. CaplinMcIntire School of Commerce FdnElizabeth A. TwohyUVA Medical School FdnN. Thomas ConnallyMiller Center FdnHovey S. DabneyUVA Patents FdnHaydn WadleyUVA FdnHovey S. DabneyUniversity Real Estate FdnHovey S. DabneyVirginia Ambulatory Surgery, Inc.William E. Carter, Jr.Virginia Engineering FdnC. Wilson McNeely, IIIVirginia Kidney Stone FdnJay Y. GillenwaterVirginia Student Aid FdnM. Terry Holland

RECOGNITION OF THE EFFORT AND DEDICATION OF UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES DURING THE BLIZZARD OF 1996
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the snowstorm which began January 6, 1996, and continued, intermittently, through January 12, caused an accumulation of snow in Charlottesville, so large that it is called, simply, The Blizzard of 1996; andWHEREAS, the snowfall was so deep that roads were impassable and schools and businesses were closed; andWHEREAS, University employees made extraordinary efforts to clear roads and sidewalks on the Grounds, and to maintain essential services;RESOLVED that The Board of Visitors acknowledges the extraordinary performance of University employees during The Blizzard of 1996, and expresses its thanks to those employees for their service and dedication.

APPROVAL OF SUPPORT OF NEIGHBORING LAND OWNER'S PETITION TO CLOSE THE END OF 10 1/2 STREET LOCATED NORTH OF WEST MAIN STREET
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the University supports a neighboring property owner in his petition to the City of Charlottesville, to close approximately one hundred (100) feet at the end of 10 1/2 Street, located north of West Main Street;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to determine the best use of this property once the final approval of the petition is obtained.

APPROVAL OF CONVEYANCE OF TEMPORARY USE AND PERMANENT OWNERSHIP OF UNIVERSITY LAND TO THE VIRGINIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (VDOT) TO SUPPORT THE 9TH-10TH STREET CONNECTOR PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the conveyance of 0.382 acre of land for roadway purposes, 0.355 acre of land for railroad purposes, 0.026 acre as a permanent drainage easement, 1.447 acres as a temporary construction easement to VDOT, in support of the 9th-10th Street connector project, is approved;RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said conveyance.

APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 1996-97 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Facility

Actual 1995-96

Room Rent

Proposed 1996-97

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

Academic Division

DORMITORIES

Alderman/Observatory Houses

Double Room

$1,816

$36

2.0%

$0

$1,852

Brown College

Double Room

$2,278

$46

2.0%

$0

$2,324

McCormick Road

Double Room

$1,732

$30

1.7%

$0

$1,762

Small Double Room

$1,572

$30

1.9%

$0

$1,602

Single

$1,832

$32

1.8%

$0

$1,864

Per Day Rate

$8

$0

0.0%

$0

$8

Facility

Actual 1995-96

Room Rent

Proposed 1996-97

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

Lawn

Small Single

$2,158

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,204

Regular Single

$2,158

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,204

Small Single (no fireplace)

$2,104

$40

1.9%

$0

$2,144

Range

Regular Single

$2,158

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,204

Crackerbox

Single Room

$2,158

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,204

Mary Munford/Roberta Gwathmey

Double Room

$1,816

$36

2.0%

$0

$1,852

Single Room

$2,158

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,204

Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)

Double Room

$2,056

$46

2.2%

$0

$2,102

Single Room

$2,320

$44

1.9%

$0

$2,364

Single Room (private bath)

$2,424

$50

2.0%

$0

$2,474

Gooch/Dillard

Double Room

$2,056

$46

2.2%

$0

$2,102

Single Room

$2,320

$44

1.9%

$0

$2,364

TWELVE MONTH RATE:

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$0

N/A

Single Room

$3,289

$85

2.6%

$0

$3,374

Hereford College

Double Room

$2,160

$42

1.9%

$0

$2,202

Single Room

$2,288

$36

1.6%

$0

$2,324

French House

Triple Room

$1,872

$38

2.0%

$0

$1,910

Double Room

$1,976

$44

2.2%

$0

$2,020

Single Room

$2,184

$46

2.1%

$0

$2,230

Facility

Actual 1995-96

Room Rent

Proposed 1996-97

Per Student Per Session

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Phone/Data Services

Per Student Per Session

German House

Single Room

$1,870

$40

2.1%

$0

$1,910

Russia House

Double Room

$1,992

$40

2.0%

$0

$2,032

Single Room

$2,314

$40

1.7%

$2,354

Spanish House

Double Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$122

$2,142

Single Room

N/A

N/A

N/A

$224

$2,454

APARTMENTS-SINGLE STUDENT

Copeley Hill Phase III & IV, Lambeth Field

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$0

0.0%

$122

$2,126

Three Bedroom

$1,924

$0

0.0%

$122

$2,046

Brandon

Two Bedroom

$2,004

$46

2.3%

$0

$2,050

Three Bedroom

$1,924

$46

2.4%

$0

$1,970

Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)

Double

$2,080

$0

0.0%

$122

$2,202

Single

$2,176

$0

0.0%

$224

$2,400

Large Single

$2,704

$0

0.0%

$224

$2,928

APARTMENTS-FAMILY (per month)

Copeley Hill Phases I & II

One Bedroom

$422

$8

1.9%

$0

$430

Two Bedroom

$468

$9

1.9%

$0

$477

Three Bedroom

$505

$15

3.0%

$0

$520

University Gardens

One Bedroom

$408

$8

2.0%

$0

$416

Two Bedroom

$443

$9

2.0%

$0

$452

Clinch Valley College

Dormitories

$1,996

$200

10.0%

N/A

$2,196

Apartments

$2,310

$230

10.0%

N/A

$2,540

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 1996-97 Session:FacilityActual 1995-96Room RentProposed 1996-97Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionAcademic DivisionDORMITORIESAlderman/Observatory HousesDouble Room$1,816$362.0%$0$1,852Brown CollegeDouble Room$2,278$462.0%$0$2,324McCormick RoadDouble Room$1,732$301.7%$0$1,762Small Double Room$1,572$301.9%$0$1,602Single$1,832$321.8%$0$1,864Per Day Rate$8$00.0%$0$8FacilityActual 1995-96Room RentProposed 1996-97Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionLawnSmall Single$2,158$462.1%$0$2,204Regular Single$2,158$462.1%$0$2,204Small Single (no fireplace)$2,104$401.9%$0$2,144RangeRegular Single$2,158$462.1%$0$2,204CrackerboxSingle Room$2,158$462.1%$0$2,204Mary Munford/Roberta GwathmeyDouble Room$1,816$362.0%$0$1,852Single Room$2,158$462.1%$0$2,204Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton)Double Room$2,056$462.2%$0$2,102Single Room$2,320$441.9%$0$2,364Single Room (private bath)$2,424$502.0%$0$2,474Gooch/DillardDouble Room$2,056$462.2%$0$2,102Single Room$2,320$441.9%$0$2,364TWELVE MONTH RATE:Double RoomN/AN/AN/A$0N/ASingle Room$3,289$852.6%$0$3,374Hereford CollegeDouble Room$2,160$421.9%$0$2,202Single Room$2,288$361.6%$0$2,324French HouseTriple Room$1,872$382.0%$0$1,910Double Room$1,976$442.2%$0$2,020Single Room$2,184$462.1%$0$2,230FacilityActual 1995-96Room RentProposed 1996-97Per Student Per SessionAmount of IncreasePercent IncreasePhone/Data ServicesPer Student Per SessionGerman HouseSingle Room$1,870$402.1%$0$1,910Russia HouseDouble Room$1,992$402.0%$0$2,032Single Room$2,314$401.7%$2,354Spanish HouseDouble RoomN/AN/AN/A$122$2,142Single RoomN/AN/AN/A$224$2,454APARTMENTS-SINGLE STUDENTCopeley Hill Phase III & IV, Lambeth FieldTwo Bedroom$2,004$00.0%$122$2,126Three Bedroom$1,924$00.0%$122$2,046BrandonTwo Bedroom$2,004$462.3%$0$2,050Three Bedroom$1,924$462.4%$0$1,970Faulkner (Hench/Mitchell/Younger)Double$2,080$00.0%$122$2,202Single$2,176$00.0%$224$2,400Large Single$2,704$00.0%$224$2,928APARTMENTS-FAMILY (per month)Copeley Hill Phases I & IIOne Bedroom$422$81.9%$0$430Two Bedroom$468$91.9%$0$477Three Bedroom$505$153.0%$0$520University GardensOne Bedroom$408$82.0%$0$416Two Bedroom$443$92.0%$0$452Clinch Valley CollegeDormitories$1,996$20010.0%N/A$2,196Apartments$2,310$23010.0%N/A$2,540

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN SUMMER SESSION RATES FOR 1996-1997
----------------------------------------------------------

Actual 1995

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996

TUITION

Virginian (per semester hour)

$132

$4

3.0%

$136

Non-Virginian (per semester hour)

$434

$26

6.0%

$460

Thesis/Dissertation Research

$396

$12

3.0%

$408

Appellate Judges Program

$1,188

$36

3.0%

$1,224

Non-Resident Fee

$57

$1

1.8%

$58

COMPREHENSIVE FEE

Newcomb Hall

$10

$1

10.0%

$11

Student Health

$46

$0

0.0%

$46

Transportation

$10

$0

0.0%

$10

TOTAL COMP. FEES

$66

$1

1.5%

$67

OTHER FEES

Late Payment Fee

$25

$0

0.0%

$25

Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee

$35

$0

0.0%

$35

The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.

Lab Use Fee

$71

$0

0.0%

$71

Non-Univ. of Virginia Researcher (per week):

Senior Investigators

$206

$0

0.0%

$206

Co-Investigators

$52

$0

0.0%

$52

Graduate Students

$52

$0

0.0%

$52

MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Each person 17 years of age & older

$390

$10

2.6%

$400

Each Person 10-16 years of age

$250

$10

4.0%

$260

Each Person 9 years of age & younger

$155

$5

3.2%

$160

Actual 1995

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996

MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)

Dormitories

$96

$4

4.2%

$100

Laing Singles

$96

$4

4.2%

$100

Laing Center

$135

$5

3.7%

$140

North

$135

$5

3.7%

$140

South

$135

$5

3.7%

$140

Northwest

$135

$5

3.7%

$140

West

$135

$5

3.7%

$140

New Dormitory

Singles

$103

$12

11.7%

$115

Apartments (two rooms)

$155

$5

3.2%

$160

Second Bedroom (Family)

$50

$0

0.0%

$50

Cottages

Hentz-Mohr

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Clayton

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Catesby

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Gattinger

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Michaux

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Burns

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Washington

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Banister

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

LeConte

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Hariot

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Schoew

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Mapnis

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Holbrook

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Mitchell

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

Rafinesque

$180

$5

2.8%

$185

OFF-SEASON RATES

Singles (Nightly)

$8.00

$0.50

6.3%

$8.50

Singles (Weekly)

$40.00

$2.50

6.3%

$42.50

Singles (Monthly)

$160.00

$10.00

6.3%

$170.00

Family (Nightly)

$12.00

$0.00

0.0%

$12.00

Family (Weekly)

$60.00

$0.00

0.0%

$60.00

Family (Monthly)

$240.00

$0.00

0.0%

$240.00

Actual 1995

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1996

SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)

Hereford College

Per Student, per week, double

$48

$0

0.0%

$48

Per Student, per week, single

$60

$0

0.0%

$60

OTHER:

Conference housing and meal rates, Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation rates, International Center room rates, and other miscellaneous fees are to be approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summer Session fees for the Academic Division be increased as follows, effective beginning with the Summer Session of 1996:Actual 1995Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996TUITIONVirginian (per semester hour)$132$43.0%$136Non-Virginian (per semester hour)$434$266.0%$460Thesis/Dissertation Research$396$123.0%$408Appellate Judges Program$1,188$363.0%$1,224Non-Resident Fee$57$11.8%$58COMPREHENSIVE FEENewcomb Hall$10$110.0%$11Student Health$46$00.0%$46Transportation$10$00.0%$10TOTAL COMP. FEES$66$11.5%$67OTHER FEESLate Payment Fee$25$00.0%$25Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee$35$00.0%$35The Summer Session registration fee and tuition rates also apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station. In addition, the following special fees apply to Mt. Lake Biological Station.Lab Use Fee$71$00.0%$71Non-Univ. of Virginia Researcher (per week):Senior Investigators$206$00.0%$206Co-Investigators$52$00.0%$52Graduate Students$52$00.0%$52MT. LAKE BOARD RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Each person 17 years of age & older$390$102.6%$400Each Person 10-16 years of age$250$104.0%$260Each Person 9 years of age & younger$155$53.2%$160Actual 1995Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996MT. LAKE HOUSING RATES PER TERM (5 WEEKS)Dormitories$96$44.2%$100Laing Singles$96$44.2%$100Laing Center$135$53.7%$140North$135$53.7%$140South$135$53.7%$140Northwest$135$53.7%$140West$135$53.7%$140New DormitorySingles$103$1211.7%$115Apartments (two rooms)$155$53.2%$160Second Bedroom (Family)$50$00.0%$50CottagesHentz-Mohr$180$52.8%$185Clayton$180$52.8%$185Catesby$180$52.8%$185Gattinger$180$52.8%$185Michaux$180$52.8%$185Burns$180$52.8%$185Washington$180$52.8%$185Banister$180$52.8%$185LeConte$180$52.8%$185Hariot$180$52.8%$185Schoew$180$52.8%$185Mapnis$180$52.8%$185Holbrook$180$52.8%$185Mitchell$180$52.8%$185Rafinesque$180$52.8%$185OFF-SEASON RATESSingles (Nightly)$8.00$0.506.3%$8.50Singles (Weekly)$40.00$2.506.3%$42.50Singles (Monthly)$160.00$10.006.3%$170.00Family (Nightly)$12.00$0.000.0%$12.00Family (Weekly)$60.00$0.000.0%$60.00Family (Monthly)$240.00$0.000.0%$240.00Actual 1995Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1996SUMMER SESSION HOUSING RATES (INCL. PHD INSTITUTE)Hereford CollegePer Student, per week, double$48$00.0%$48Per Student, per week, single$60$00.0%$60OTHER:Conference housing and meal rates, Birdwood Pavilion overnight accommodation rates, International Center room rates, and other miscellaneous fees are to be approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

APPROVAL TO PROCURE A REPLACEMENT CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION LAB INCLUDING EQUIPMENT AND ASSOCIATED RENOVATIONS IN THE MEDICAL CENTER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Board of Visitors has approved a 1995-96 capital budget for the Medical Center which authorized the Health Affairs Committee to approve specific items in excess of $1 million;WHEREAS the Medical Center recommends the replacement of its cardiac catheterization lab at an estimated cost of $1 million to $1.5 million;RESOLVED that the Medical Center is authorized to replace one cardiac catheterization lab through a competitive procurement process subject to all applicable regulatory approvals.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period October 1, 1995 through December 31, 1995, is approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPRECIATION TO RETIRING BOARD MEMBERS
--------------------------------------

At the conclusion of the meeting, the Rector noted that Mrs. Morie and Mr. Butcher will go off the Board at the end of this month. He commended and thanked them both for their outstanding years of service on the Board and to the University.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:40 p.m.

AGG:jb

ATTACHMENT VIRGINIA INSTITUTE OF GOVERNMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Virginia Institute of Government, a component of the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, will:

• Develop a comprehensive training curriculum for local government officials, and broker the delivery of training through existing and new providers, including state and local agencies, colleges and universities, associations, and other organizations;

• Develop and maintain data and information relevant to state and local government and share this information with state and local governments via the information superhighway and other media;

• Gather and supply information to state and local officials on local government operations; and conduct applied research and offer technical assistance to state and local government officials.

The President will appoint a Committee to advise the Director of the Virginia Institute of Government. This Committee will

• Review and comment on workplans, research, and programs of the VIG, and on funding mechanisms, membership charges, and allocations of resources;

• Encourage participation by county, city and town governments in the VIG and its various programs;

• Provide information and feedback about the efficacy of the efforts of the VIG:

• Advise the University on the selection of the VIG's Director.

The Committee's members will include:

• Six from local governments (i.e., one municipal official to be nominated by the Virginia Municipal League, one county official to be nominated by the Virginia Association of Counties, one county and one municipal official to be nominated by the Virginia Local Government Management Association, one official to be nominated by the Virginia Association of Locally-Elected Constitutional Officers, and one official to be nominated by the Virginia Local Government Attorneys' Association). One of these persons will serve as Chair of the Committee.

• Eight members at large. The President will solicit advice from the Governor, the Speaker of the House of Delegates and the Chairman of the Senate Privileges and Elections Committee before making these appointments. Members-at-large may be drawn from the Governor's Cabinet, current and former members of the General Assembly, and the public. This listing is not exclusive.

• Four members from other colleges and universities.

The Director of the Cooper Center will serve on the Committee ex officio with vote and without term.

Members will serve two-year terms, except that the first members appointed to serve after June 30, 1996, will be in two classes. The first class will serve a one-year term expiring on June 30, 1997, and the second class will serve a two-year term expiring on June 30, 1998. In this initial class, equal numbers will be appointed to one-year and two-year terms. Subsequent classes will be selected for two-year terms on or before June 30 of each calendar year.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Meeting Date: February 10, 1996

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

VOTE

AYES: 15

NAYS: 0

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].

ABSENT DURING VOTE: 2

ABSENT DURING MEETING: 2

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

Hovey S. Dabney

yes

John P. Ackerly, III

yes

Franklin K. Birckhead

yes

Robert G. Butcher, Jr.

yes

Mortimer M. Caplin

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

Warner N. Dalhouse

absent

T. Keister Greer

yes

Daniel A. Hoffler

yes

Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Evans B. Jessee

yes

Arnold H. Leon

yes

C. Wilson McNeely, III

yes

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie

yes

Albert H. Small

absent

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Matthew W. Cooper

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on Saturday, February 10, 1996, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

NAME VOTE COMMENTS yes or no Hovey S. Dabney yes John P. Ackerly, III yes Franklin K. Birckhead yes Robert G. Butcher, Jr. yes Mortimer M. Caplin yes Charles M. Caravati, Jr. yes Warner N. Dalhouse absent T. Keister Greer yes Daniel A. Hoffler yes Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland yes Evans B. Jessee yes Arnold H. Leon yes C. Wilson McNeely, III yes Mrs. Elizabeth D. Morie yes Albert H. Small absent Elizabeth A. Twohy yes Matthew W. Cooper yes