Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 14, 2000

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2011

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS July 14-15, 2000
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors met in Retreat at Upper Brandon in Prince George County on July 14 and 15, 2000. John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., Charles M. Caravati, Jr., M.D., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Charles L. Glazer, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, Walter F. Walker, Benjamin P.A. Warthen, James C. Wheat, III, Joseph E. Wolfe, and Stephen S. Phelan, Jr. were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Ms. Penny Rue (on July 14th only) and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Retreat began in Open Session at 8:30 p.m. on the 14th. The following motions, permitting the Board to meet in Open Session according to the appropriate provisions of the Code of Virginia, were proposed and, on motion, adopted by the Board:

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss the acquisition of real property located in the City of Charlottesville and the County of Albemarle, where such discussion would adversely affect our negotiations, strategy and financial interest as permitted in Section 2.1-344 (A) (3) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virgini go into Executive Session to review the performance and present and future assignments of senior University administrators, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to discuss the acquisition of real property located in the City of Charlottesville and the County of Albemarle, where such discussion would adversely affect our negotiation strategy and financial interest, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (A)(3) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board went into Executive Session at 8:35 p.m., and recessed at 10:45 p.m., for the evening.

The Board resumed its meeting, in Retreat, at 8:40 a.m., on the 15th, adjourned for lunch, and went into Open Session at 1:00 p.m.

The morning session having ended ahead of schedule, the Rector proposed short discussions of a miscellany of topics, which he introduced. No formal actions were taken as a result of the discussions.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m.

AGG:jb

NAME

VOTE

COMMENTS

yes or no

John P. Ackerly, II

yes

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

yes

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

yes

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

yes

Charles L. Glazer

yes

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

yes

T. Keister Greer

yes

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

yes

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

yes

Timothy B. Robertson

absent

Terence P. Ross

absent

Elizabeth A. Twohy

yes

Walter F. Walker

yes

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

yes

James C. Wheat, III

yes

Joseph E. Wolfe

yes

Stephen S. Phelan, Jr.

yes

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held on July 14 and 15, 2000, a roll call vote was taken immediately following an executive session. Members voting "yes" certify that to the best of the Member's knowledge (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted were discussed in closed session; and (2) only public business matters identified in the public motion by which the executive or closed meeting were discussed. In accordance with the law, any member of the public body who believes that there was a departure from the foregoing shall so state prior to the vote indicating "the substance of the departure". Any such statements are recorded below under "comments".

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAMeeting Date: July 14-15, 2000CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VOTE

AYES:

15

NAYS:

0

ABSENT DURING VOTE:

2

ABSENT DURING MEETING:

2

WHEREAS the Board of Visitors has convened an executive meeting on this date pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS Section 2.1-344.1 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by this Board of Visitors that such executive meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors hereby certifies that, to the best of each member's knowledge, (i) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the executive meeting to which this certification resolution applies, and (ii) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the executive meeting were heard, discussed or considered by the Board of Visitors.

\[For each nay vote, the substance of the departure from the requirements of the Act should be described\].