Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 05, 2001

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MEMORANDUMApril 5, 2001
-----------------------

TO:

The Board of Visitors:

John P. Ackerly, III, Rector

Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.

Stephen S. Phelan, Jr.

Charles M. Caravati, Jr.

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

William G. Crutchfield, Jr.

Timothy B. Robertson

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Terence P. Ross

Charles L. Glazer

Thomas A. Saunders, III

William H. Goodwin, Jr.

Elizabeth A. Twohy

T. Keister Greer

Benjamin P.A. Warthen

Elsie Goodwyn Holland

Joseph E. Wolfe

FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT:

Orientation

An orientation session for new Board Members was held on Thursday, April 5, 2001, in the Lower West Oval Room of the Rotunda. New Members Thomas F. Farrell, II and Thomas A. Saunders, III, attended, as well as Ms. Sasha L. Wilson, the new Student Member. The Rector, John P. Ackerly, III, presided. The President, John T. Casteen, III; Leonard W. Sandridge, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Peter W. Low, Vice President and Provost; Robert W. Cantrell, M.D., Vice President for Health System; Paul J. Forch, General Counsel; and Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Secretary to the Board, participated.

The orientation, which was held in Open Session, began at 2:30 p.m. and concluded at 4:00 p.m. It was conducted along the following lines:

Orientation —; April 5, 2001 —; 2.