<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "https://schema.org",
"@type": "BoardMeeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "2003-01-31T08:35:00",
"endDate": "2003-02-01T16:00:00",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "University of Virginia Library",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, minutes, resolutions",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting held on January 31-February 1, 2003, discussing various appointments, resolutions, and university business.",
"attendee": \[
"Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.",
"Thomas F. Farrell, II",
"Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.",
"Don R. Pippin",
"William G. Crutchfield, Jr.",
"Terence P. Ross",
"Susan Y. Dorsey",
"Thomas A. Saunders, III",
"Charles L. Glazer",
"Warren M. Thompson",
"William H. Goodwin, Jr.",
"E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.",
"Mark J. Kington",
"Georgia M. Willis",
"Lewis F. Payne",
"John O. Wynne",
"John R. M. Rodney",
"John P. Ackerly, III",
"T. Keister Greer",
"Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland",
"Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy",
"Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge",
"Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.",
"Paul J. Forch",
"Gene D. Block",
"Ms. Colette Sheehy",
"Robert D. Sweeney",
"Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin",
"Robert E. Reynolds, M.D.",
"Ms. Yoke San Reynolds",
"R. Ariel Gomez, M.D.",
"Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D.",
"William W. Harmon",
"Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes"
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of January 31, 2003",
"description": "Memorandum regarding corrections to previous minutes."
},
{
"@type": "Event",
"name": "Resolutions Adopted by the Board of Visitors",
"description": "Documentation of various resolutions passed by the Board during the meeting."
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 31, 2003

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## April 15, 2003 MEMORANDUM

### TO:

The Board of Visitors:

* Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector
* Thomas F. Farrell, II, Vice Rector
* Thomas J. Bliley, Jr.
* Don R. Pippin
* William G. Crutchfield, Jr.
* Terence P. Ross
* Susan Y. Dorsey
* Thomas A. Saunders, III
* Charles L. Glazer
* Warren M. Thompson
* William H. Goodwin, Jr.
* E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.
* Mark J. Kington
* Georgia M. Willis
* Lewis F. Payne
* John O. Wynne
* John R. M. Rodney

### FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

### SUBJECT:

Correction to the Minutes of the Board of Visitors Meeting of January 31, 2003

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of January 31, 2003, should be corrected as follows:

1. The text of the resolution establishing the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship in Business Administration, which appears on page 6315 of the Minutes, should be corrected to delete "Jr." when referring to William C. Killgallon, son of the late William C. Killgallon, Sr. Thus, the first line of the resolution should read "WHEREAS, Martin L. Killgallon and William C. Killgallon....." etc.

2. On page 6318, after the resolution naming the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall at the Darden School, the following paragraph should be inserted:

## MEMORANDUM April 15, 2003

AGG:lah

Copies to:

Mr. John T. Casteen, III

Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

"The President reported that Room 7014 in Jordan Hall has been named the Wagner Conference Room in memory of Dr. Robert R. Wagner. Dr. Wagner, who died in September 2001, was the founder of the modern Department of Microbiology. He was a most distinguished and beloved physician, teacher and researcher. Room 7014 was his office for many years.

"This naming does not require action by the Board of Visitors and is reported here as a matter of record."

# RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS January 31-February 1, 2003

| PAGE | Resolution |
|------|------------|
| 6308 | Resolution to Approve Additional Action Items |
| 6309 | Approval of Revisions to the Manual |
| 6312 | Resolution to Approve Additional Action Item |
| 6312 | Resolution Commending Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy |
| 6315 | Establishment of the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship in Business Administration |
| 6315 | Establishment of the Leslie E. Grayson Professorship in Business Administration |
| 6316 | Establishment of the David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professorships in Law |
| 6317 | Renaming of the James Madison Professorship in Law; the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law; and the James Monroe Professorship in Law |
| 6317 | Approval of the Naming of the Abbott Center at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration |
| 6318 | Naming of the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration |
| 6319 | Approval of the Disposition of the 10½ Street Right-of-Way Property from University of Virginia to Tenth and Main LLC |
| 6320 | Approval of the Disposition of the Norton Properties Acquired from the Estate of Ms. Virginia Irene Meador to the Norton United Methodist Church |
| 6321 | Approval to Offer a New Graduate Degree Program: Master of Public Health (MPH) in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences |
| 6321 | Approval of a Permanent Easement for the University of Virginia Across Property Owned by University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation Located at the Cavalier Inn at the Intersection of Emmet Street and Ivy Road |
| 6321 | Approval of Edgar Allan Poe Historical Marker Installation |
| 6322 | Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Cocke Hall Renovation Project |
| 6322 | Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Rouss Hall Renovation and Commerce School Project |
| 6322 | Approval of Architectural Design Guidelines for Bice House Renovation Project |
| 6322 | Approval to Remove the Observatory Hill Dining Hall and the Tree House Dining Facility |
| 6323 | Approval to Remove the Dell Garden Structure |
| 6324 | Approval of Recommendation for Disposition of the Cole Memorial Fund |
| 6326 | Approval of Student Housing Rates for 2003-2004 |
| 6330 | Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, Authorization of Issuance of Up to $200,000,000 of General Revenue Pledge Bonds |
| 6334 | Resolution of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Authorization of Issuance of Up to $100,000,000 of Commercial Paper |
| 6336 | Approval of a Revised Budget and Funding Plan for the South Lawn Project |
| 6337 | Memorial Resolution for Mr. Champ Clark |
| 6337 | Election of Mr. Eugene V. Fife to the Miller Center Governing Council |
| 6337 | Replacement of Highway Historical Marker |
| 6338 | Commending Student Accomplishments |
| 6338 | Process for Approving Medical Center Market-Based Compensation Adjustments |
| 6339 | Faculty Personnel Actions |
| 6343 | Elections of Chairholders |
| 6344 | Change of Title of Chairholders |
| 6344 | Special Salary Actions of Chairholders |
| 6345 | Retirement of Chairholder |
| 6345 | Resignation of Chairholder |
| 6346 | Promotions |
| 6346 | Special Salary Actions |
| 6352 | Resignations |
| 6353 | Change in the Hire Date in the Retirement of Ms. Linda R. Davies |
| 6354 | Change in the Date of the Retirement of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull |
| 6354 | Appointments |
| 6354 | Change in the Appointment of Mr. Jeffrey Plank |
| 6355 | Re-Appointments |
| 6356 | Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Vice President for Student Affairs |
| 6356 | Re-election of Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer |
| 6356 | Election of Professor Emeritus |
| 6356 | Change in the Date of the Emeritus Election for Mr. Albert R. Turnbull |
| 6356 | Deaths |
| 6357 | The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 6357 | Elections |
| 6358 | Special Salary Actions |
| 6359 | Appointment of Non-Voting Student Member to the Board of Visitors |
| 6359 | Resolution Commending Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland |
| 6360 | Resolution Commending Mr. T. Keister Greer |
| 6361 | Resolution Commending the Rector |
| 6363 | Report on Actions of the Executive Committee |

## TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS January 31-February 1, 2003

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 8:35 a.m., Friday, January 31, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda; John P. Ackerly, III, Rector, presided. Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Thomas F. Farrell, II, William H. Goodwin, Jr., T. Keister Greer, Mrs. Elsie Goodwyn Holland, Mark J. Kington, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., and H. Timothy Lovelace, Jr., were present.

Also present were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San Reynolds, R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., William W. Harmon, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector asked for a motion approving the Minutes of the October meeting of the Board. A resolution of approval was moved, seconded, and adopted.

The Rector reported on actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meetings of October 18, November 26, December 9, 2002 (the resolutions adopted at those meetings are listed at the end of these Minutes; see also the separate Minutes of those meetings of the Executive Committee).

The Rector asked for approval to consider the addition of three items to the Agenda: one to be considered by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, one by the Educational Policy Committee and one by the full Board. By the following resolution, the Board approved the consideration of these items.

## RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEMS

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

***

The Rector then asked for consideration of two resolutions passed by the Executive Committee the day before. The first resolution shortened the term of the Rector from four years to two years, creating the position of Vice Rector who would automatically succeed the Rector, and except for the election to be held at the next Board meeting in April, would begin the Rector's term on July 1st. The Vice Rector would serve on the Executive Committee with the Rector, thus increasing the total membership of that committee to six. All of these changes to the Manual would require changes to the Code of Virginia by the General Assembly. The resolution suggested by the Executive Committee also makes minor adjustments to the Manual which do not call for changes to the Code.

A companion resolution authorizes the University to seek emergency legislation at this Session of the General Assembly in order that the changes to the Manual might be in effect by the April meeting of the Board, the meeting at which the Rector and Vice Rector would be elected.

On motion, the two resolutions were approved.

## APPROVAL OF REVISIONS TO THE MANUAL

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors approves changes to the Manual of the Board to shorten the term of Rector to two years; to create the office of Vice Rector who would serve for two years, concurrent with the term of the Rector, and who would succeed the Rector after two years; to set the date of the first election of the Rector and Vice Rector, under these terms, for the April 2003 meeting of the Board of Visitors; to set subsequent elections, beginning in 2005, for that meeting of the full Board held closest to June 30th; and to establish the term of office for both positions to commence in April 2003, and to end on June 30, 2005, with terms after that date to run from July 1, for two years to June 30.

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Executive Committee approves conforming changes to the Manual to reflect the changes hereinabove authorized.

FURTHER, all changes to the Manual enumerated in this Resolution are shown in Attachment A.

RESOLVED, the University is authorized to take such other and further action as may be necessary or appropriate to seek in the current session of the General Assembly an amendment to Chapter 9, Sections 23-74 and 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, consistent with the changes approved in the attached Resolution.

The Rector then asked the President to give his customary report.

The President told the Board about meetings with alumni groups around the country in preparation for the next Capital Campaign, as well as meetings with alumni groups in the state to discuss the University's budget situation. He mentioned several honors and awards that have come to members of the University community: a Mitchell Scholarship, the first awarded to a student or alumnus of the University, to Mr. John Kiess, who took a B.A. from the College in 2001; the Public Service Group Achievement Award (from NASA) to Mr. Swap and his research team in the Department of Environmental Sciences; the appointment of Mr. Zelikow, Director of the Miller Center, as Executive Director of the federal 9/11 Commission; and the Mellon Distinguished Achievement Award to Mr. McGann of the English Department.

The President noted the death, on December 21, 2002, of Mr. Champ Clark, former Member of the Board of Visitors and former member of the faculty, and he paid special recognition to the four Members of the Board whose terms expire this winter —; Ms. Twohy and Mrs. Holland and Messrs. Ackerly and Greer.

Turning to his usual report on gifts and grants, the President summarized gifts made between the beginning of the current fiscal year in July and November 30, 2002. Private giving in this period was $140.7 million, an increase of $57.4 million or over 68% from the same period last year. Pledges and other commitments bring the total to $160.9 million.

The President noted the bequest of $111 million of the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, who died on June 8, 2002. The bequest is allocated as a $47.2 million deferred gift, to be realized in 25 years; $34.8 million to the School of Law; $20.3 million to the School of Medicine; $5.8 million to the Athletics Department; and $3.1 million to fulfill a pledge to the University Library. He noted other gifts and pledges, including an anonymous $10 million pledge to the McIntire School of Commerce Foundation for its building campaign.

On motion, the Gifts and Grants Report was accepted by the Board.

The meeting of the full Board was recessed at 9:10 a.m., for the meeting of the Audit Committee.

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 9:50 a.m.; all Members present at the earlier session were present.

The Rector introduced Mr. William de Jong, Director of the Higher Education Center for Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention in Boston; Mr. de Jong presented Mr. Casteen with the Center's first Presidents Leadership Grant Award. The award was made to commend, as Mr. de Jong said, the approach taken to addressing high-risk drinking at the University.

The Board recessed its meeting as the full Board at 10:05 a.m., for the meeting of the Finance Committee.

***

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 11:40 a.m., to hear a report from the President and Mr. Farrell on the progress of the University's legislative initiatives in the current Session of the General Assembly. The Board recessed at 12:00 noon for lunch.

The Board resumed meeting, in Open Session, as the full Board at 1:20 p.m.; all Members present in the morning, with the addition of Messrs. Glazer and Ross, were present.

The Rector asked for a vote to consider an additional item not on the published Agenda. On motion, the following resolution was adopted.

## RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEM

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of item to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

The Rector then proposed a resolution commending Ms. Elizabeth A. Twohy whose second term as a Member expires at the end of February. On motion, the following resolution was approved:

## RESOLUTION COMMENDING MS. ELIZABETH A. TWOHY

WHEREAS, Elizabeth Addington Twohy of Virginia Beach, a member of the first undergraduate class of the University to which women were admitted without restriction, took a B.S. in Commerce from the McIntire School in 1974; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy, after a year as a banker in Atlanta, returned to Virginia Beach and went to work for her family's company, Capital Concrete, Inc.; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy very quickly proved her worth and became President and General Manager of the company, as well as principal officer in several state and national trade associations; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy married Kevin Michaels, an alumnus of the Curry School, in 1977 and their oldest daughter, Merrick, took a B.A. from the College in 2002; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy's abilities as a competitive surfer are a matter of record and community pride in Virginia Beach; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1995 and reappointed by Governor Gilmore in 1999; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy has been an invaluable Member of the Board, respected and admired by her colleagues who have valued her wisdom and advice; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy has served as Chair of the Educational Policy Committee and as Chair of the Audit Committee, as well as a Member of the Executive Committee; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Twohy's second term on the Board expires on February 28, 2003;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors thanks its friend and valued colleague, Elizabeth Addington Twohy, for her devoted service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 1:25 p.m., for the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board at 1:40 p.m., in Open Session; all Members present at the earlier afternoon session were present. After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session:

That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing personnel matters pertaining to the appointment, assignment, reappointment, promotion, performance, compensation, discipline, separation and resignation of specific employees of the University of Virginia; as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to review and discuss with General Counsel his confidential litigation report and to receive the advice of legal counsel with respect to pending and probable litigation, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Executive Session to consider the appointment of a student member to the Board of Visitors in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors convene in closed session to review with legal counsel and the University administration purchase of real estate and related funding for road construction, and to evaluate negotiations concerning the disposition of University real estate for site development; where disclosure of these discussions at this time would adversely affect the University's bargaining position and negotiation strategy, in accordance with Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3), (5), (7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board resumed in Open Session at 3:25 p.m., and after adopting the following motion certifying the legality of matters discussed in Executive Session, recessed for the meeting of the Committee on The University of Virginia's College at Wise:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member's knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board, in Open Session, at 4:00 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the sessions earlier in the afternoon were present, save Ms. Twohy.

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KILLGALLON OHIO ART PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

WHEREAS, Martin L. Killgallon and William C. Killgallon, Jr., alumni of the Darden School, have been generous benefactors of the University and of the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, William Killgallon, Jr., and Martin Killgallon are, respectively, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer of the Ohio Art Company in Bryan, Ohio; and

WHEREAS, the late William C. Killgallon, Sr., and the Ohio Art Company began the manufacture of the popular toy, "Etch a Sketch," in 1960; and

WHEREAS, William Killgallon, Jr., and Martin Killgallon have made a generous gift to establish a professorship at the Darden School in memory of their father;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Killgallon Ohio Art Professorship of Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and expresses its appreciation to Mr. William Killgallon, Jr., and Mr. Martin Killgallon for their generosity.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LESLIE E. GRAYSON PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

WHEREAS, Leslie E. Grayson, a native of Hungary and an alumnus of Oberlin College and the University of Michigan, joined the faculty of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in 1971; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson has been interested particularly in international business, holding teaching and consulting positions abroad and in so doing, establishing the reputation of the University overseas; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson helped establish and was the first director of the Darden School's joint MBA/MA degree program in East Asian studies and was the founding faculty advisor of the International Business Society; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson is known among his students as a superb teacher, one mark of which is the generosity of former students who have contributed to the establishment of a professorship in his honor; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Grayson retired in 1998 as the Isidore Horween Research Professor of Business Administration and was elected Emeritus;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes the Leslie E. Grayson Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and thanks Mr. Grayson for his service to the University and the generous donors who made this chair possible.

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID AND MARY HARRISON DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIPS IN LAW

WHEREAS, David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County, an alumnus of the College and of the Law School, was an extraordinarily wise and generous benefactor of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison died on June 8, 2002, leaving $34.8 million to the School of Law for the establishment of professorships; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Harrison expressed the hope that the persons selected for these professorships not only be eminent in their fields but have "a demonstrated interest in and talent for the teaching of students;"

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors establishes five chairs in the School of Law to be known as the David and Mary Harrison Distinguished Professorships in Law. The remainder of the Harrison gift is to be used to augment the endowments supporting three existing professorships in the School of Law; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board, in taking these actions, pays tribute to the magnificent generosity of Mr. Harrison to the University of Virginia.

## RENAMING OF THE JAMES MADISON PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW; THE JOHN BARBEE MINOR PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW; AND THE JAMES MONROE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW

WHEREAS, the James Madison Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Professorship in Law, are the oldest endowed professorships in the School of Law; and

WHEREAS, the incomes from the endowments established to support these professorships are inadequate for the purposes for which they were set up; and

WHEREAS, the late David A. Harrison, III, of Prince George County made a generous bequest to the School of Law for the support of professorships in the School;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors directs that $4.8 million of the Harrison bequest be divided equally and applied to the support of the James Madison Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Professorship in Law, thus providing $1.6 million for each chair; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the three professorships be renamed, respectively, the James Madison Distinguished Professorship in Law, the John Barbee Minor Distinguished Professorship in Law, and the James Monroe Distinguished Professorship in Law, with all of these professorships to continue to be held in the School of Law. In taking these actions, the Board expresses its profound gratitude for the generosity of David A. Harrison, III.

## APPROVAL OF THE NAMING OF THE ABBOTT CENTER AT THE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

WHEREAS, Charles Cortez Abbott was the first Dean, and before that the principal organizer, of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Abbott was Dean when the Darden School opened in 1955 and continued in that position until his retirement in 1972; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Abbott died in 1986;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the new Center at the Darden School the Charles C. Abbott Center, and in so doing pays tribute to the memory and service to the University of Charles Cortez Abbott, and to the generosity of Mr. George David and the other donors who made the Center possible.

## NAMING OF THE C. RAY SMITH ALUMNI HALL AT THE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

WHEREAS, C. Ray Smith, a member of the second Darden class, joined the faculty of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in 1961; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith is the longest serving faculty member at the School and has taught virtually every living Darden alumnus; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Smith has given distinguished service to the Darden School and to the University, having been Chair of the University's Faculty Senate, Interim Dean of the Darden School three times, Executive Director of the Darden Foundation, and Tipton R. Snavely Professor of Business Administration, among many other positions; and

WHEREAS, the Darden School proposes to name the new wing east of the Darden Library, which houses a number of functions associated with alumni activities, in honor of Mr. Smith;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors names the new wing east of the Darden Library the C. Ray Smith Alumni Hall and expresses its profound appreciation to Mr. Smith for his service to the University.

The board recessed at 4:30 p.m., for the day.

The Board resumed its meeting as the full Board, in Open Session, at 10:40 a.m., on Saturday, February 1, 2003, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda. All Members present at the last afternoon session of January 31st, were present, save Mr. Ross, Dr. Vaughan and Mr. Lovelace.

The Board approved the following resolutions:

## APPROVAL OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE 10½ STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY PROPERTY FROM UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO TENTH AND MAIN LLC

WHEREAS, certain property and improvements ("10½ Street right-of-way") containing approximately 1,800 square feet, located adjacent to the east property line of the Stacey Hall property on West Main Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, was received from the City of Charlottesville on February 19, 2002, when the City closed a 120-foot long section of the 10½ Street right-of-way; and

WHEREAS, the University has determined that because of its topography and location this property is of no benefit to the University; and

WHEREAS, the Tenth and Main LLC has requested the transfer of the University's share of the right-of-way in exchange for access easement that will allow 1) University employees the right to use the walkways and other site amenities and 2) University vehicles access to the remaining section of the 10½ Street right-of-way and the north end of the Stacey Hall property;

RESOLVED that the disposition of the aforesaid property located adjacent to the east property line of Stacey Hall, which is located on West Main Street in Charlottesville, Virginia, consisting of approximately 1,800 square feet, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the disposal of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

## APPROVAL OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE NORTON PROPERTIES ACQUIRED FROM THE ESTATE OF MS. VIRGINIA IRENE MEADOR TO THE NORTON UNITED METHODIST CHURCH

WHEREAS, a 50 percent interest in certain property and improvements ("Norton Properties") containing approximately 7,500 square feet, located on Park Avenue in Norton, Virginia, and referred to as lots 21 and 22 in block 13 of Plat Four, Norton, Virginia, were designated for The University of Virginia's College at Wise in the will of Ms. Virginia Irene Meador; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Meador died on December 21, 1995; and

WHEREAS, the College has determined that because of their size and distance from the campus the lots are of nominal use; and

WHEREAS, the Norton United Methodist Church has offered to buy the lots for $10,000, which is $4,800 greater than their assessed value; and

WHEREAS, the College will receive $5,000 as its share of the sale proceeds; and

WHEREAS, the College would like to use the proceeds for student assistance needs either in the form of scholarships or loans;

RESOLVED that the disposition of the aforesaid property on Park Avenue in Norton, Virginia, consisting of approximately 7,500 square feet, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for the University of Virginia is authorized to convey the property via quitclaim deed and to execute any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the disposal of the aforesaid property as he may deem necessary or appropriate.

## APPROVAL TO OFFER A NEW GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAM: MASTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH (MPH) IN THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Master of Public Health (MPH) be established in the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

## APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACROSS PROPERTY OWNED BY UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REAL ESTATE FOUNDATION LOCATED AT THE CAVALIER INN AT THE INTERSECTION OF EMMET STREET AND IVY ROAD

RESOLVED that the request for an easement, dated January 31, 2003, from the University of Virginia Real Estate Foundation for an electric power line for the Emmet Street Parking Structure across property owned by the Foundation located at the Cavalier Inn, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said dedication and easement.

## APPROVAL OF EDGAR ALLAN POE HISTORICAL MARKER INSTALLATION

WHEREAS, Edgar Allan Poe enrolled at the University of Virginia on February 14, 1826, for one term; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Poe is recognized as one of the nation's important literary figures; and

WHEREAS, the University has preserved his room, #13 on the West Range, in his honor; and

WHEREAS, a marker on McCormick Road in the vicinity of the West Range would serve to further commemorate the achievements of this outstanding American writer;

RESOLVED that installation of a marker for Edgar Allan Poe is approved.

## APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR COCKE HALL RENOVATION PROJECT

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the renovation of Cocke Hall are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that design review of this project will not be required and that the project is approved for further development and construction.

## APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ROUSS HALL RENOVATION AND COMMERCE SCHOOL PROJECT

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Rouss Hall Renovation and Commerce School project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.

## APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR BICE HOUSE RENOVATION PROJECT

RESOLVED that the architectural design guidelines, dated December 18, 2002, and prepared by the Architect for the University, for the Bice House Renovation project are approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that design review of this project will not be required and that the project is approved for further development and construction.

## APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE OBSERVATORY HILL DINING HALL AND THE TREE HOUSE DINING FACILITY

WHEREAS, the University owns the Observatory Hill Dining Hall (FAACS Building Number: 207-0209) and the Tree House Dining Facility (FAACS Building Number: 207-0320) located at the intersection of McCormick and Alderman Roads; and

WHEREAS, a portion of the North Wing of the Observatory Hill Dining Hall must be demolished for the construction of the new Observatory Hill Dining Facility; and

WHEREAS, these structures will no longer be needed for dining functions once the new Observatory Hill Dining Facility has been completed; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED that the removal of these buildings (FAACS Building Numbers: 207-0209 and 207-0320) at the intersection of McCormick and Alderman Roads is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to determine 1) if the buildings should be saved to serve another function or 2) if they should be removed. If the decision is made for removal said officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

## APPROVAL TO REMOVE THE DELL GARDEN STRUCTURE

WHEREAS, the University owns the Dell Garden Structure (FAACS Building Number: 207-0223) located at the east end of the Dell on the west side of Emmet Street directly opposite the Central Grounds Parking Garage; and

WHEREAS, this structure is no longer used and is in poor condition; and

WHEREAS, the site of the structure is needed for the Dell Storm Water project; and

WHEREAS, the Governor of Virginia delegated to the Board of Visitors, pursuant to Executive Order Number Thirty-Four (98), dated November 10, 1998, the authority of the Governor to approve the removal of buildings on state property, with the advice and counsel of the Art and Architectural Review Board, and the review of the Department of Historic Resources; and

WHEREAS, the Art and Architectural Review Board and the Department of Historic Resources have approved the removal of these structures;

RESOLVED that the removal of this structure (FAACS Building Number: 207-0223) located in the Dell is approved by the Board of Visitors; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining to the removal of the aforementioned buildings, and that the said officer ensure that the required reports regarding the building removals are sent to the Department of General Services.

## APPROVAL OF RECOMMENDATION FOR DISPOSITION OF THE COLE MEMORIAL FUND

WHEREAS, J. Marshall Cole (BA '25 and MA '27) created in 1962 a Charitable Remainder Trust, which quarterly provided net income to himself and his wife, Bertha Bates Cole, upon their lifetimes; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University received the principal and undistributed income from this trust on December 13, 2002, in the amount of $28,351.15; and

WHEREAS, according to the provisions of the trust, the principal and undistributed income shall be used to establish a fund known as The James Alfred Cole and Nannie Marshall Cole Memorial Fund; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors is required by condition of the trust to determine the use of the income and principal of this fund;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors delegates discretionary authority to the President of the University as to the disposition of The James Alfred Cole and Nannie Marshall Cole Memorial Fund.

## APPROVAL OF STUDENT HOUSING RATES FOR 2003-2004

| Facility | Actual 2002-2003 Per Student Per Session | Amount of Increase | % Increase Before Improvement Fee | Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee | Total Percent Increase | Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session |
|----------|-----------------------------------------|-------------------|---------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| **Academic Division** | | | | | | |
| **DORMITORIES** | | | | | | |
| Alderman/Observatory Houses | Double Room | $2,420 | $100 | 4.13% | $150 | 10.33% | $2,670 |
| Brown College | Double Room | $3,000 | $120 | 4.00% | $150 | 9.00% | $3,270 |
| McCormick Road | Double Room | $2,560 | $90 | 3.88% | $150 | 10.34% | $2,560 |
| Small Double Room | $2,120 | $90 | 4.25% | $150 | 11.32% | $2,360 |
| Single | $2,430 | $100 | 4.12% | $150 | 10.29% | $2,680 |
| Lawn | Small Single | $2,860 | $110 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.09% | $3,120 |
| Regular Single | $2,860 | $110 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.09% | $3,120 |
| Small Single (no fireplace) | $2,780 | $110 | 3.96% | $150 | 9.35% | $3,040 |
| Range | Regular Single | $2,860 | $110 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.09% | $3,120 |
| Crackerbox | Single Room | $2,860 | $110 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.09% | $3,120 |
| Mary Munford/ Roberta Gwathmey | Double Room | $2,420 | $100 | 4.13% | $150 | 10.33% | $2,670 |
| Single Room | $2,860 | $110 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.09% | $3,120 |
| Sprigg (Lewis/Hoxton) | Small Double Room | $2,580 | $100 | 3.88% | $150 | 9.69% | $2,830 |
| Double Room | $2,740 | $110 | 4.01% | $150 | 9.49% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,040 | $120 | 3.95% | $150 | 8.88% | $3,310 |
| Single Room (w/bath) | $3,190 | $130 | 4.08% | $150 | 8.78% | $3,470 |
| Gooch/Dillard | Double Room | $2,740 | $110 | 4.01% | $150 | 9.49% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,040 | $120 | 3.95% | $150 | 8.88% | $3,310 |
| Twelve Month Rate: Single Room | $4,250 | $170 | 4.00% | $150 | 7.53% | $4,570 |
| **Facility** | **Actual 2002-2004 Per Student Per Session** | **Amount of Increase** | **% Increase Before Improvement Fee** | **Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee** | **Total Percent Increase** | **Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session** |
| Hereford College | Double Room | $2,740 | $110 | 4.01% | $150 | 9.49% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,000 | $120 | 4.00% | $150 | 9.00% | $3,270 |
| French House | Triple Room | $2,600 | $100 | 3.85% | $150 | 9.62% | $2,850 |
| Double Room | $2,740 | $110 | 4.01% | $150 | 9.49% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,100 | $120 | 3.87% | $150 | 8.71% | $3,370 |
| German House | Single Room | $2,780 | $110 | 3.96% | $150 | 9.35% | $3,040 |
| Russia House | Double Room | $2,650 | $150 | 5.66% | $150 | 11.32% | $2,950 |
| Single Room | $3,030 | $120 | 3.96% | $150 | 8.91% | $3,300 |
| Spanish House | Double Room | $2,780 | $70 | 2.52% | $150 | 7.91% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,100 | $120 | 3.87% | $150 | 8.71% | $3,370 |
| Monroe Lane House | Double Room | $2,740 | $110 | 4.01% | $150 | 9.49% | $3,000 |
| Single Room | $3,100 | $120 | 3.87% | $150 | 8.71% | $3,370 |
| **APARTMENTS - SINGLE STUDENT** | | | | | | |
| Copeley Hill III, IV, Lambeth Field | Two Bedroom (double occupancy) | $2,770 | $110 | 3.97% | $150 | 9.39% | $3,030 |
| Three Bedroom (double occupancy) | $2,670 | $110 | 4.12% | $150 | 9.74% | $2,930 |
| Bice House | Two Bedroom (double occupancy) | $2,770 | $110 | 3.97% | $150 | 9.39% | $3,030 |
| Three Bedroom (double occupancy) | $2,670 | $110 | 4.12% | $150 | 9.74% | $2,930 |
| Faulkner (Hench, Mitchell, Younger) | Single | $3,090 | $120 | 3.88% | $150 | 8.74% | $3,360 |
| Large Single | $3,740 | $150 | 4.01% | $150 | 8.02% | $4,040 |
| **Facility** | **Actual 2002-2005 Per Student Per Session** | **Amount of Increase** | **% Increase Before Improvement Fee** | **Student Housing Improvement Fund Fee** | **Total Percent Increase** | **Proposed 2003-2004 Per Student Per Session** |
| **Apartments - Family (per month)** | | | | | | |
| Copeley Hill I & II | One Bedroom (furnished) | $573 | $23 | 4.01% | $15 | 6.63% | $611 |
| One Bedroom (unfurnished) | $542 | $22 | 4.06% | $15 | 6.83% | $579 |
| Two Bedroom (furnished) | $630 | $25 | 3.97% | $15 | 6.35% | $670 |
| Two Bedroom (unfurnished) | $600 | $24 | 4.00% | $15 | 6.50% | $639 |
| Three Bedroom (furnished) | $682 | $27 | 3.96% | $15 | 6.16% | $724 |
| Three Bedroom (unfurnished) | $652 | $26 | 3.99% | $15 | 6.29% | $693 |
| **University Gardens** | | | | | | |
| One Bedroom (furnished) | $556 | $22 | 3.96% | $15 | 6.83% | $594 |
| One Bedroom (unfurnished) | $526 | $21 | 3.99% | $15 | 7.03% | $563 |
| Two Bedroom (furnished) | $600 | $24 | 4.00% | $15 | 6.67% | $640 |
| Two Bedroom (unfurnished) | $570 | $23 | 4.04% | $15 | 6.84% | $609 |
| **College At Wise** | | | | | | |
| McCraray Asbury, Thompson, Henson, Martha Randolph, Townhouses | $2,609 | $78 | 3.00% | $0 | 3.00% | $2,687 |
| **Theme Housing** | | | | | | |
| $3,014 | $90 | 3.00% | $0 | 3.00% | $3,104 |

**Notes:**

1. The rates for Copeley Hill I & II and University Gardens include utility charges and cable TV.
2. A new rate for furnished apartments will go into effect as the units turn over.
3. The University Gardens proposed monthly rate includes $1.05 to recover the monthly cost of providing data ports.
4. The rate for a double room used as a single is 135 percent of the double rate.
5. The rate for a double room used as a triple is 85 percent of the double rate.

RESOLVED that rental increases for student housing facilities be approved as shown below, effective beginning with the 2003-2004 session:

## MOUNTAIN LAKE BIOLOGICAL STATION RATES

| Actual 2002 | Proposed 2003 Rate | Percent Increase |
|-------------|---------------------|------------------|
| BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks) | | |
| Persons 17 years & older | $513.00 | $513.00 | 0.00% |
| Persons 10-16 years old | $308.00 | $308.00 | 0.00% |
| Persons 9 yrs & younger | $164.00 | $164.00 | 0.00% |
| SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks) | | |
| CABINS | $172.00 | $176.00 | 2.33% |
| LAING APTS | $131.00 | $134.00 | 2.29% |
| DORMS/SINGLES | $93.00 | $95.00 | 2.15% |
| NEW DORM: | Apts (2 rooms) | $151.00 | $154.00 | 1.99% |
| 2nd bedroom (family) | $48.00 | $49.00 | 2.08% |
| Singles | $107.00 | $109.00 | 1.87% |
| PRESEASON RATES (2 week May session) | | |
| Entomology: | Food | $165.00 | $220.00 | 33.33% |
| Rent | $105.00 | $176.00 | 67.62% |
| Insurance | $15.00 | $8.00 | (46.67%) |
| Communities: | Food | $245.00 | $255.00 | 4.08% |
| Rent | $95.00 | $95.00 | 0.00% |
| Insurance | $55.00 | $100.00 | 81.82% |
| OFF SEASON RATES | | |
| Singles/Guests: | Night | $11.00 | $11.00 | 0.00% |
| Week | $54.00 | $55.00 | 1.85% |
| Month | $216.00 | $220.00 | 1.85% |
| Family: | Night | $14.50 | $15.00 | 3.45% |
| Week | $72.00 | $74.00 | 2.78% |
| Month | $288.00 | $294.00 | 2.08% |
| GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON) | | |
| Classroom/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Dining Hall/day | $55.00 | $56.00 | 1.82% |
| New Dorm Kitchen/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Auditorium/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Pavilion only | No charge | | |
| Computer Lab/day | $50.00 | $51.00 | 2.00% |

Cabins: Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.

Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.

Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

## Actual 2002 Proposed 2003 Rate Percent Increase

**BOARD RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)**

| Persons 17 years & older | $513.00 | $513.00 | 0.00% |
| Persons 10-16 years old | $308.00 | $308.00 | 0.00% |
| Persons 9 yrs & younger | $164.00 | $164.00 | 0.00% |

## SUMMER HOUSING RATES PER TERM (4 weeks)

| CABINS | $172.00 | $176.00 | 2.33% |
| LAING APTS | $131.00 | $134.00 | 2.29% |
| DORMS/SINGLES | $93.00 | $95.00 | 2.15% |

## NEW DORM:

| Apts (2 rooms) | $151.00 | $154.00 | 1.99% |
| 2nd bedroom (family) | $48.00 | $49.00 | 2.08% |
| Singles | $107.00 | $109.00 | 1.87% |

## PRESEASON RATES (2 week May session)

| Entomology: | Food | $165.00 | $220.00 | 33.33% |
| Rent | $105.00 | $176.00 | 67.62% |
| Insurance | $15.00 | $8.00 | (46.67%) |

**Communities:**

| Food | $245.00 | $255.00 | 4.08% |
| Rent | $95.00 | $95.00 | 0.00% |
| Insurance | $55.00 | $100.00 | 81.82% |

## OFF SEASON RATES

| Singles/Guests: | Night | $11.00 | $11.00 | 0.00% |
| Week | $54.00 | $55.00 | 1.85% |
| Month | $216.00 | $220.00 | 1.85% |

**Family:**

| Night | $14.50 | $15.00 | 3.45% |
| Week | $72.00 | $74.00 | 2.78% |
| Month | $288.00 | $294.00 | 2.08% |

**GROUP USE FEES (OFF-SEASON)**

| Classroom/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Dining Hall/day | $55.00 | $56.00 | 1.82% |
| New Dorm Kitchen/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Auditorium/day | $30.00 | $31.00 | 3.33% |
| Pavilion only | No charge | | |
| Computer Lab/day | $50.00 | $51.00 | 2.00% |

Cabins: Hariot, Leconte, Catesby, Banister, Gattinger, Holbrook, Mitchell, Maphis, Schoew, Rafinesque, Burns, Michaux, Clayton, Hentz-Mohr and Washington.

Laing Apartments: Laing South, North, Center, Northwest and West.

Dorms/Singles: Chapman, Elliott, DeSchweinitz, Audubon, Laing Singles, Laundry and other cottages when used as dorms.

## RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $200,000,000 OF GENERAL REVENUE PLEDGE BONDS RECITALS

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, on June 1, 2002, the Board authorized the issuance of bonds to finance the projects described in items A through E below:

* The construction of an addition to the Aquatic & Fitness Center consisting of a gymnasium complex, fitness and weightlifting areas and the Engineering/Science Chiller Plant (authorized project cost - $10,400,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $5,500,000);
* The renovation of the Cancer Center located on the 4th and 5th floors of the Multistory Building and in the Davis Wing to expand its facilities and patient capacity (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $5,000,000);
* The construction of the Emmet Street Parking Structure, an approximately 1,200 space parking garage located at the intersection of Emmet Street and Ivy Road (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $17,500,000);
* The Hospital Expansion Project which consists of an approximately 75,000 square foot addition to the Hospital and the renovation of approximately 152,000 square feet of the existing Hospital (authorized project cost - $58,000,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $54,000,000);
* The acquisition of the School of Medicine research building (authorized project cost and bond issuance amount - $17,000,000); and

WHEREAS, in addition to the foregoing projects, the Board has now determined to authorize the issuance of bonds to finance the projects described in items F through H below:

* The construction of the University's new approximately 15,000 seat Arena (authorized project cost - $121,000,000; additional project cost of $8.8 million pending General Assembly approval; authorized bond issuance amount - $75,000,000);
* The construction of a new Observatory Hill Dining Replacement Facility, including new dining facilities and office space for Business Operations and Dining Services (authorized project cost - $22,000,000; authorized bond issuance amount - $10,000,000);
* The refunding of all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of (1) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993A, (2) the University's General Revenue Pledge Bonds, Series 1993B, (3) the University's Series 1973 HUD financing, (4) the University's portion of the Commonwealth's Taxable Series 1990A Bonds and (5) the University's portion of the Commonwealth's Taxable Series 1992B Bonds; and

WHEREAS, the maximum cost and authorized bond issuance amount of each Project is indicated above, in each case exclusive of costs of issuance, capitalized interest, original issue discount and other expenses relating thereto; and

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth has authorized the Projects and the issuance of bonds for them in the following legislation:

* Aquatic and Fitness Center (207-16383): Initial authorization 2000-2002, Chapter 1073, Item C-54; Supplemental authorization 2002, Chapter 814, Item C-54;
* Cancer Center (209-16751): Authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-53.10;
* Emmet Street Parking Garage (207-16645): Authorization 2002, Chapter 814, Item C-60.20;
* Hospital Expansion (209-16392): Initial planning authorization 2000-2002, Chapter 1073, Item C-65; Supplemental planning authorization 2001, Chapter 1073, Item 4-4.01m; Construction authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-48;
* School of Medicine Research Building (207-16562): Authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-41;
* Arena (207-16281): Planning authorization 1999, Chapter 935, Item C-36.76; Construction authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-36;
* Observatory Hill Dining Replacement Facility (207-16094): Initial authorization 1999, Chapter 935, Item C-36.78; Supplemental authorization 2002-2004, Chapter 899, Item C-34; and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the bonds will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the bonds, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of one or more series of bonds for the purpose of financing or refinancing any or all of the Projects and providing for the terms thereof, as required by Section 23-19 of the Virginia Code; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the final terms of each series of bonds, including, without limitation, their original principal amounts, the specific Projects to be financed or refinanced, maturity dates and amounts, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates (which may be either fixed or variable), provided that (i) the maximum aggregate principal amount of all bonds shall not exceed $200,000,000; (ii) the maximum true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a fixed rate shall not exceed six percent (6%) per annum; (iii) the maximum initial true interest cost of any series bearing interest at a variable rate shall not exceed five percent (5%) per annum; (iv) the final maturity of all bonds shall not extend beyond June 1, 2038; (v) call protection on the bonds shall not exceed eleven (11) years; and (vi) no optional redemption premium shall exceed two percent; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee is authorized to approve the discount payable to the underwriters selected by the Executive Committee (the "Underwriters") on account of the sale of the bonds and to approve the terms of a contract for the sale of the bonds to the Underwriters, provided that the discount payable to the Underwriters shall not exceed 0.5 percent of the original aggregate principal amount of the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of Underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees and liquidity providers for the bonds, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the bonds; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to the Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates Yoke San Reynolds, Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on the bonds; and

RESOLVED that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed.

## RESOLUTION OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF UP TO $100,000,000 OF COMMERCIAL PAPER RECITALS

WHEREAS, Chapter 9, Title 23 of the Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended (the "Virginia Code"), establishes a public corporation under the name and style of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") which is governed by a Board of Visitors (the "Board"); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Title 23 of the Virginia Code (the "Act") classifies the University as an educational institution, declares it to be a public body and constitutes it a governmental instrumentality for the dissemination of education; and

WHEREAS, the Act empowers the University, with the consent and approval of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "Commonwealth") and the Governor of the Commonwealth to build, construct, reconstruct, erect, extend, better, equip and improve any building, facility, addition, extension or improvement of a capital nature required by or convenient for the purposes of the University and to borrow money and make, issue and sell bonds of the University for any such purposes, including the refinancing of any such facilities, such bonds to be issued and sold through the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth (the "Treasury Board"); and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the University to pledge to the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds any monies available for the use of the University including, but not limited to, and subject to guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Finance of the Commonwealth (the "Secretary of Finance"), monies appropriated to the University from the general funds of the Commonwealth or from non-general funds, without regard to the source of such monies, and which are not required by law or by previous binding contract to be devoted to some other purpose; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined to facilitate the financing or refinancing from time to time of capital projects of the University on a short-term basis through the issuance of short-term commercial paper in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time not to exceed $100,000,000 (the "Program"); and

WHEREAS, the Board anticipates that the Program will be secured by a general revenue pledge of the University and shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth and shall not create or constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise; and

WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize its Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") to approve the final forms and details of the Program, as set forth below;

RESOLVED that the Executive Committee is authorized to implement the plan of finance described in the Recitals by adopting a resolution or resolutions authorizing the Program and to approve the final terms of the Program, including, without limitation, the original principal amount thereof, redemption provisions and prices and interest rates, provided that the maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Program at any one time shall not exceed $100,000,000; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that costs associated with any capital project of the University may be financed under the Program provided that (i) such project has been authorized by appropriate legislation enacted by the Commonwealth and (ii) the incurrence of indebtedness for such project has been authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Committee or all officers of the University are authorized and directed to take all such further actions, including without limitation the designation of underwriters, paying agents, remarketing agents, trustees and liquidity providers for the Program, and to execute all such instruments, agreements, documents and certificates as they shall deem necessary or desirable to carry out the terms of the financing plans presented to this meeting, including without limitation any liquidity facilities, swap or other interest rate management agreements associated with the Program; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, pursuant to Section 147(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable regulations thereunder, the University designates Yoke San Reynolds, Vice President for Finance of the University, as the public hearing officer to hold any public hearings required in order to ensure the tax-exempt status of interest on any obligations issued under the Program; and

RESOLVED that all acts of all officers of the University which are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution and in carrying out the financing plans presented to this meeting are ratified, approved and affirmed.

## APPROVAL OF A REVISED BUDGET AND FUNDING PLAN FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, which set a $126.7 million budget for the South Lawn Project with $61.1 million to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage; and

WHEREAS, the Buildings and Grounds Committee adopted a resolution on October 18, 2001, approving the report from the Special Committee setting forth the project budget and scope; and

WHEREAS, the Special Committee on the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Facilities approved a revised budget and funding plan on October 28, 2002, for the South Lawn Project;

RESOLVED that the new budget for the South Lawn project is now $160 million, of which $94.4 million is to be provided by private gifts from the College Foundation, $61.1 million through a combination of state and University funds, and $4.5 million from the University Department of Parking and Transportation as a contribution to the parking garage.

## MEMORIAL RESOLUTION FOR MR. CHAMP CLARK

WHEREAS, Champ Clark was born on August 24, 1923, to a Missouri family of national political importance; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark pursued a distinguished career in journalism, becoming a senior editor of Time magazine; and

WHEREAS, Mr. and Mrs. Clark settled in Greene County in 1974 and very quickly became involved in a number of civic activities; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark joined the faculty of the University and taught popular and demanding courses in journalism until 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Allen in 1996; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark served the Board and the University with great distinction, particularly as a member of the Executive Committee and notably because of his thorough and definitive study and compilation of University policies; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Clark died on December 21, 2002;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors honors the memory of Champ Clark's service to the University and expresses its profound sorrow for his death to Mrs. Clark and their family.

## ELECTION OF MR. EUGENE V. FIFE TO THE MILLER CENTER GOVERNING COUNCIL

RESOLVED that Mr. Eugene V. Fife of Charlottesville is elected a member of the Miller Center Governing Council, effective February 1, 2003, for a term of three years.

## REPLACEMENT OF HIGHWAY HISTORICAL MARKER

WHEREAS, the state Highway Department in 1929 placed an historical marker commemorating the University of Virginia on Fontaine Avenue, at the southern edge of Charlottesville; and

WHEREAS, the marker is missing; and

WHEREAS, the state Department of Historic Resources and the Virginia Department of Transportation wish to put a replacement marker on the Grounds of the University; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors must approve all such markers and plaques placed on the University Grounds;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the text and the placement of an appropriate historical marker on the University Grounds. The approved text for the marker is appended Attachment C to these Minutes.

## COMMENDING STUDENT ACCOMPLISHMENTS

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors commends and supports the outstanding accomplishments of the students of the University of Virginia in the classroom, on the playing field, in research, in extramural academic competition and in service to the community around them. Further, the Board does not condone the unfortunate actions of a few students who have neglected the feelings of others with their thoughtless acts.

## PROCESS FOR APPROVING MEDICAL CENTER MARKET-BASED COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS

WHEREAS, the Board has established the Medical Center Operating Board to oversee the University of Virginia Medical Center; and

WHEREAS, the Board has previously enacted policies related to compensation of the Medical Center employees; and

WHEREAS, in the current climate of a nationwide shortage of nurses and other health care professionals, the Medical Center must be able to act quickly to adjust salaries in reaction to market forces;

RESOLVED that it is the intent of the Board that market-based compensation adjustments within the Board approved compensation plan be made on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board, and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, provided the compensation adjustments are consistent with Board policies, the approved budget and state law, and are reported to the Medical Center Operating Board.

## FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS

### ELECTIONS

### ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS

(a) Elections of Chairholders

(b) Change of Title of Chairholder

(c) Special Salary Actions of Chairholders

(d) Retirement of Chairholder

(e) Resignation of Chairholder

### PROMOTIONS

### SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS

### RESIGNATIONS

### CHANGE IN THE HIRE DATE IN THE RETIREMENT OF MS. LINDA R. DAVIES

### CHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE RETIREMENT OF MR. ALBERT R. TURNBULL

### APPOINTMENTS

### CHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. JEFFREY PLANK

### RE-APPOINTMENTS

RESOLVED that Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin is elected Vice President for Student Affairs, for five years, effective October 25, 2002.

RESOLVED that Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge, Jr., is re-elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, for five years, effective July 1, 2003.

RESOLVED that the following person is elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the Emeritus election of Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Professor of Law, effective June 24, 2002, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 5-6, 2002, was changed to read as follows:

The following deaths were announced:

## THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

### ELECTIONS

### SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

## APPOINTMENT OF NON-VOTING STUDENT MEMBER TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS

On motion of Rector John P. Ackerly, III, Chair of the Executive Committee, the Board elected Mr. John Rocco MacMillan Rodney of Memphis, Tennessee, as the non-voting student member of the Board of Visitors, for one year, effective April 5, 2003.

Mr. Rainey noted that three other Members, in addition to Ms. Twohy, are ending their terms on the Board. He asked Mr. Glazer to read a resolution honoring Mrs. Holland.

The following resolution was approved by the Board:

## RESOLUTION COMMENDING MRS. ELSIE GOODWYN HOLLAND

WHEREAS, Elsie Goodwyn Holland, a native of Dinwiddie County, took the B.S. and M.S.in Education from Virginia State University and the Ed.D. from the Curry School; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland has devoted her life to teaching in the classroom from the elementary level to university, with a specialty in early childhood education and reading; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland has also been deeply involved in education as an administrator in a wide variety of fields; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland's interests and contributions extend beyond the classroom and she has been a member of many commissions and boards, thus serving both her community and her state; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Holland is married to Kenneth G. Holland and Mr. and Mrs. Holland reside in Richmond; and

WHERE
