<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "http://schema.org",
"@type": "Meeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "2003-04-03T15:30:00",
"endDate": "2003-04-03T15:55:00",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "Lower West Oval Room of the Rotunda",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia",
"addressCountry": "USA"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, Rector, Vice Rector",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting held on April 3, 2003, discussing the election of a Rector and Vice Rector.",
"attendee": \[
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "William H. Goodwin, Jr."
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Mr. Thompson"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Dr. Vaughan"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Mr. Glazer"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Mr. Rainey"
},
{
"@type": "Person",
"name": "Mr. Farrell"
}
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "WebPage",
"name": "Virginia Freedom of Information Act",
"url": "http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title2.1/chapter3/section2.1-340/"
},
{
"@type": "WebPage",
"name": "University of Virginia Library Special Collections",
"url": "https://www.library.virginia.edu/specialcollections/"
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors Minutes

## Board of Visitors Minutes

**University of Virginia, Board of Visitors**\
April 3, 2003\
University of Virginia Library\
Charlottesville, Virginia\
2009

# Board of Visitors Minutes

## Public Minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 3, 2003

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 3:30 p.m., on Thursday, April 3, 2003, in the Lower West Oval Room of the Rotunda to elect a Rector and Vice Rector; William H. Goodwin, Jr., Rector pro tempore, presided according to the provisions of the manual of the Board of Visitors specifying the procedures to be followed in the election of a Rector. All Members of the Board were present save Mr. Thompson and Dr. Vaughan.

After the following motion, the Board went into Executive Session at 3:35 p.m.:

That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss and evaluate specific candidates for appointment to the office of Rector and Vice Rector, as provided for in Section 2.2- 3711 (A)(1) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board approved the following motion and resumed in Open Session at 3:50 p.m.:

Mr. Rector, I move that we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

Again following the procedures specified in the Manual, the Rector pro tempore directed the Secretary to conduct the election.

The Secretary opened the floor for nominations for Rector and Vice Rector. Mr. Glazer nominated Mr. Rainey for Rector and Mr. Farrell for Vice Rector. His nomination was seconded and there being no further nominations, the Secretary called for the vote.

Mr. Rainey was elected Rector and Mr. Farrell Vice Rector and the Secretary announced the results to the Rector pro tempore. The Rector pro tempore passed the gavel to the Rector and the meeting was adjourned at 3:55 p.m.
