<!-- llmmeta -->
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
"@context": "http://schema.org",
"@type": "Meeting",
"name": "Board Minutes",
"startDate": "2004-04-15T16:30:00",
"endDate": "2004-04-15T16:40:00",
"location": {
"@type": "Place",
"name": "Dome Room of the Rotunda",
"address": {
"@type": "PostalAddress",
"addressLocality": "Charlottesville",
"addressRegion": "Virginia",
"addressCountry": "USA"
}
},
"organizer": {
"@type": "Organization",
"name": "University of Virginia, Board of Visitors"
},
"keywords": "Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, meeting minutes",
"description": "Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting on April 15, 2004, discussing the establishment of the MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration and naming the Grounds of the Darden School.",
"attendee": \[
"Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.",
"William G. Crutchfield, Jr.",
"Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey",
"G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.",
"W. Heywood Fralin",
"Ms. Glynn D. Key",
"Mark J. Kington",
"Lewis F. Payne",
"Don R. Pippin",
"Thomas A. Saunders, III",
"Warren M. Thompson",
"Ms. Georgia M. Willis",
"John O. Wynne",
"John R.M. Rodney",
"James W. Head",
"John T. Casteen, II",
"Leonard W. Sandridge",
"Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.",
"Robert D. Sweeney",
"Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes"
],
"about": \[
{
"@type": "CreativeWork",
"name": "MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration",
"description": "A professorship established at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration with funds from MasterCard International, Inc."
},
{
"@type": "CreativeWork",
"name": "William H. Goodwin, Jr. Grounds",
"description": "The grounds of the Darden Graduate School named in honor of alumnus William H. Goodwin, Jr."
}
]
}

</script>
<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes

## board of visitors minutes

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 15, 2004

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2008

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 15, 2004

The Board of Visitors met, in Open Session, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda at 4:30 p.m., Thursday, April 15, 2004, to vote on the establishment of a professorship and the naming of the Grounds of the Darden School. Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Rector, presided. William G. Crutchfield, Jr., Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., W. Heywood Fralin, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Mark J. Kington, Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Warren M. Thompson, Ms. Georgia M. Willis, John O. Wynne, and John R.M. Rodney were present.

James W. Head, the Student Member-elect, also was present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, II, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Robert D. Sweeney and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Board adopted the following resolution establishing the MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration:

## ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MASTERCARD PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

WHEREAS, MasterCard International, Inc., at the instigation of H. Eugene Lockhart, Jr., an alumnus of the University and then the President and Chief Executive Officer of MasterCard, made a generous pledge in 1996 to provide funds for a professorship at the University; and

WHEREAS, the pledge has been fulfilled and subsequently augmented by funds from the Batten Family Challenge; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of MasterCard that the professorship be based in the Darden School and that it emphasize entrepreneurial leadership;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the MasterCard Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration, and expresses its appreciation to H. Eugene Lockhart, Jr., MasterCard International, Inc., and the Batten Family Challenge for their generosity and support.

The Board next adopted the following resolution naming the Grounds of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration in honor of William H. Goodwin, Jr.:

## NAMING OF THE WILLIAM H. GOODWIN, JR., GROUNDS AT THE DARDEN SCHOOL

WHEREAS, William H. Goodwin, Jr., of Richmond, a distinguished alumnus of the Darden School and a recent and devoted Member of the Board of Visitors, and his wife, Alice T. Goodwin, have been extraordinarily generous friends of the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Goodwin has been principally involved in the planning and development of the present Darden buildings and grounds; and

WHEREAS, the University Names Committee has proposed that the grounds of the Darden School be named in honor of Mr. Goodwin;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the grounds of the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration the William H. Goodwin, Jr., Grounds, and in so doing thanks Mr. Goodwin, its friend and former colleague, for his devotion and service to the Darden School, to the Board of Visitors, and to the University of Virginia.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m.
