<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes

## Board of Visitors minutes

### University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 9, 2006

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS JUNE 9, 2006

### PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the April 7-8, 2006 Meeting of the Board

7104

Change in the Date of the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Board

7104

Setting the Date of the 2007 Annual Meeting of the Board

7105

Election of the Executive Committee

7105

Extension of the Special Committee on Diversity

7105

Extension of the Special Committee on Planning

7106

Resolution for Additions to the Agenda

7106

Approval of University Information Technology Restructuring Policies

7109

Approval of University of Virginia and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise Human Resources Restructuring Policies

7110

Approval of Commitment to Meet an Additional State Goal Included in the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act

7111

Establishment of the Robert M. Blizzard Professorship in Pediatric Endocrinology

7113

Establishment of the Hugh H. Obear 21st Century Distinguished Professorship in Classics

7114

Establishment of the Shure Professorship in Pediatric Neurology

7115

Change in the Name of the Joseph Weintraub-Bank of America Professorship in Law to the Joseph Weintraub-Bank of America Distinguished Professorship in Law

7115

### PAGE

Approval of a Permanent Easement to Replace and Relocate a Waterline

7117

Approval of a Permanent Access Easement at the Cavalier Electrical Substation to Provide Redundant Power

7117

Approval of University Representative to the Art and Architectural Review Board

7117

Approval to Establish the Department of Communication Studies at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7118

Approval to Change the Name of the Department of Mathematical Sciences to the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7118

Approval of the Audit Schedule

7118

Approval of the Compliance Schedule

7118

Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings

7118

Approval to Establish a New Degree Program: B.A. and Master of Public Policy (M.P.P.) Degree Program, to be Offered Through the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences

7119

Approval to Establish a New Degree Program: Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Degree Program, to be Offered in the School of Nursing

7119

Approval of the 2006-2007 Operating Budget for the Academic Division

7119

Approval of the 2006-2007 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7119

Approval of the 2006-2007 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center

7119

Approval of Authorization for the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer

7120

Approval of Pratt Fund Distribution for 2006-2007

7120

### PAGE

Approval of Endowment Spending Policy

7120

Appointments to the Board of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7121

Approval of Appointment of Jane Haycock Woods to the Medical Center Operating Board

7121

Approval of Reappointment of Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., to the Medical Center Operating Board

7121

Approval of Appointment to the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company Board

7122

Approval to Enter into a Joint Venture for a Long Term Acute Care Hospital

7122

Report on Actions of the Executive Committee

7122

1. Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees, and other Charges for the Academic Division

7123

2. Approval of Increase in Tuition, Required Fees and other Charges for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7127

3. Approval of War of 1812 Marker at the Southern Entrance of the University Cemetery

7128

Resolution of Commendation for Mark J. Kington

7128

Re-Election of the Secretary to the Board of Visitors

7129

Appointment of Board of Visitors Representative to the Institute for Shipboard Education Board of Directors

7129

Authorization to Purchase Property on 10th Street N.W. in Charlottesville

7130

Faculty Personnel Actions

### Elections

7131

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7132

Change in the Effective Date of the Chair Election for Mr. Eric van Wincoop

7132

Special Salary Action of Chairholder

7133

Promotions

7133

Special Salary Actions

7141

### PAGE

Resignations

7143

Retirements

7144

Re-appointments

7144

Re-election of Mr. Gene D. Block as Vice President and Provost

7144

Deaths

7145

### The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

#### Special Salary Actions

7145

Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board on May 11, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7147

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on May 16, 2006 Carr’s Hill Restoration and Preservation Plan Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the New Dining Hall at the College at Wise Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the New Residence Hall at the College at Wise Revised Concept for the College at Wise Arts Center

7147

## TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS June 9, 2006

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 1:15 p.m., Friday, June 9, 2006, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. W. Heywood Fralin, Daniel R. Abramson, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Ms. Georgia Willis Fauber, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., John O. Wynne, and Ms. Anne Elizabeth Mullen were present.

Present as well were John T. Casteen, III, Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Arthur Garson, Jr., M.D., R. Ariel Gomez, M.D., R. Edward Howell, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Ms. Colette Sheehy, Robert D. Sweeney, William B. Harvey, David J. Prior, Craig K. Littlepage, Ms. Roseanne Ford, Ms. Eleanor V. Wilson, Ms. Cheryl Evans, Steve Flippen, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

The Rector called the meeting to order and asked Mr. Abramson to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

## APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE APRIL 7-8, 2006 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS

On motion, the Minutes of the Board meeting of April 7-8, were approved.

## CHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE 2006 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD

The Rector explained that when the Board a year ago set the date of the 2006 Annual Meeting, it was scheduled to meet June 9, and 10, and thus set June 10th as the date of the Annual Meeting. The Board subsequently adjusted its meeting dates and did away with the June 10th meeting. It is necessary, therefore, to designate June 9th, as the official date of the 2006 Annual Meeting.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the action taken by the Board of Visitors on June 10, 2005, setting the date of the 2006 Annual Meeting of the Board for June 10, 2006, be rescinded. The new date of the Annual Meeting for 2006 shall be June 9, 2006.

## SETTING THE DATE OF THE 2007 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution setting June 8th, as the date of the 2007 Annual Meeting of the Board.

RESOLVED, the Annual Meeting of the Board of Visitors for 2007 is set for June 8, 2007.

## ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Following the procedure set in the Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector nominated Ms. Key, Mr. Payne, Mr. Rainey and Mr. Thompson to the Executive Committee – the Rector and the Vice Rector automatically serve on the Committee. Mr. Payne was nominated vice Mr. Kington, whose term on the Board ended in March.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, the Executive Committee shall consist of the Rector, the Vice Rector, Glynn D. Key, Lewis F. Payne, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., and Warren M. Thompson.

## EXTENSION OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY

Pursuant to the terms in the Manual governing special committees of the Board, which must be renewed annually, the Rector proposed that the Special Committee on Diversity be extended for a year.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors specifies that special committees of the Board be extended each year at the Annual Meeting;

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Diversity is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2007.

## EXTENSION OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PLANNING

The Rector proposed a similar action on the Special Committee on Planning, and the Board adopted the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Manual of the Board of Visitors specifies that special committees of the Board be extended each year at the Annual Meeting;

RESOLVED, the Special Committee on Planning is extended to the Annual Meeting of 2007.

## RESOLUTION FOR ADDITIONS TO THE AGENDA

The Rector called for a motion to consider addenda to the published Agenda of the Board Meeting.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

## “THE CURRY SCHOOL OF EDUCATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, 1905-2005”

The Rector asked Mr. Block, Vice President and Provost, to introduce Ms. Eleanor V. Wilson. Ms. Wilson, Associate Professor of Education at the Curry School, is the author of The Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia, a centennial history of the Curry School, which has just been published. Ms. Wilson described her book briefly and presented a copy to each Member.

## INTRODUCTION OF MS. CHERYL EVANS, DIRECTOR OF GRADUATE STUDENT DIVERSITY PROGRAMS

At the Rector’s request, Mr. Block introduced Ms. Cheryl Evans, who recently was appointed Director of Graduate Student Diversity Programs.

## REPORT ON THE CAPITAL CAMPAIGN

The Rector asked Mr. Rainey, in his role as National Chair of the Capital Campaign, to give a brief report on the Campaign.

## NCAA ORIENTATION

Mr. Littlepage, Director of Athletics, introduced Mr. Steve Flippen, Director of Compliance in the Athletics Department, who gave the Board the annual orientation on NCAA rules.

## REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT

The President said the Governor has signed the restructuring legislation governing the University; the legislation will go into effect July 1st. The state budget, however, remains in limbo.

In the Federal Congress, a $2 million appropriation designated for the pedestrian crossing over Jefferson Park Avenue – as part of the South Lawn Project – is in the final House Committee version of the FY2007 Appropriations Bill. The bill will then go to the floor of the House for debate and from there to the Senate.

The Virginia Quarterly Review this spring was nominated for six National Magazine Awards and received two: for fiction; and for general excellence in the under-100,000 circulation category. These awards, the President said, “are the industry’s highest honor, and for a literary journal to receive two awards is exceptional.”

Turning to the Campaign, the President said the cash flow figures for April are $10.2 million, for a year-to-date total of about $192 million. Again using figures through April, the Campaign total is $879.9 million, or 29.3% of the Campaign goal. These numbers do not include the Ivy Foundation gift of $45 million, nor a $5 million gift to the Darden and Curry Schools; when these two are added in, the total comes to about $930 million.

The President then told the Board about his travel schedule – in connection with the Campaign – over the next several months.

## REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT – GIFTS AND GRANTS REPORT

The President continued with his customary report on gifts and grants.

The $192 million given to the University through April 30th is an increase of 23% over the same period in the last fiscal year. The President said that Athletics, the Jefferson Scholars Foundation, The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, the McIntire School and the Law School all report substantial increases in giving.

Among significant gifts which have been made since the April Board of Visitors meeting are a $6 million bequest from the estate of Mortimer Y. Sutherland, Jr.; $1 million from the estate of Paul Mellon for the Mellon Prostate Cancer Institute in the School of Medicine; $520,000 from the estate of Cornelius DeWitt, III for the College; and a deferred gift of $500,000 for the Jefferson Scholars Foundation. Former Member of the Board of Visitors Mortimer Caplin and his wife, Ruth, pledged $3 million for the construction of the thrust theatre; Mr. and Mrs. Caplin pledged another $1 million through the Caplin Foundation for the same purpose.

The Helene Fuld Health Trust has pledged $1,132,000 to the School of Nursing, and Mr. Bruce Lauritzen has pledged $1 million to the Darden School Foundation.

On motion, the Board voted to accept the Gifts and Grants Report.

## RETREAT

The Rector spoke briefly about the Board Retreat, to be held in Williamsburg, July 28-29.

The Preliminary Meeting of the Board ended at 2:05 p.m.

## COMMITTEE BUSINESS

The Board continued its meeting in Open Session to hear brief reports from each of the Committee Chairs whose Committees had taken actions requiring further action by the full Board. All of these Committees met on May 16th, save the Medical Center Operating Board which met on May 11.

Ms. Dorsey, as Chair of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, commended the spring athletic teams for their extraordinary performance and asked Mr. Littlepage, on behalf of the Board, to extend congratulations to the players and coaches.

This portion of the meeting ended at 2:10 p.m.

## POLICY DISCUSSION

### APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESTRUCTURING POLICIES

### APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE HUMAN RESOURCES RESTRUCTURING POLICIES

### APPROVAL OF COMMITMENT TO MEET AN ADDITIONAL STATE GOAL INCLUDED IN THE RESTRUCTURED HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ACT

At 2:15, the Board began the portion of its meeting allotted to a discussion of policy.

Mr. Sandridge gave a brief presentation on several actions required of the Board, in connection with the Restructuring Act, before July 1st. He proposed resolutions on two of these, “Information Technology Restructuring Policies,” and “Human Resources Restructuring Policies,” both for the University and for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise. A third resolution dealt with an additional state goal, which was added to the Higher Education Restructuring Act by the General Assembly in the 2006 Session.

On motion, the Board approved the three resolutions.

WHEREAS, in accordance with the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005, the 2006 General Assembly passed HB1502 and SB675, known as Management Agreements with certain institutions of higher education; and

WHEREAS, the legislation requires the Board to adopt specific information technology policies, standards and guidelines; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia is committed to conducting its information technology activities according to industry best practices, appropriately tailored to the specific circumstances of the institution; and

WHEREAS, the attached policies will serve as umbrella policies for existing and future information technology policies of the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and the College at Wise;

RESOLVED that the attached policies (shown as Attachment A) on information technology are approved and are specifically referenced as:

WHEREAS, in accordance with the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005, the 2006 General Assembly passed HB1502 and SB675, known as Management Agreements with certain institutions of higher education; and

WHEREAS, the Management Agreement includes the “Policy Governing Human Resources For Participating Covered Employees and Other University Employees”, which sets forth the features of a University Human Resources System, as well as a College Human Resources System for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise, to include classification and compensation, benefits, employee relations, leave and release time, equal employment opportunity, non-discrimination, employment, and separation; and

WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors of the University recognize the hard work and dedication of employees and wish to ensure that their rights and interests are protected through human resources systems that are fair and equitable; and

WHEREAS, the Management Agreement provides that University and Wise staff employees hired after July 1, 2006, and all wage employees will be covered by a new University Human Resources System or College Human Resources System; and

WHEREAS, initially the University and the College Human Resources Systems will be identical to the current state system existing on June 30, 2006; and

WHEREAS, it is intended that the provisions of the University and College Human Resources Systems will be modified to better address the needs of an institution of higher education and to improve efficiency, effectiveness, and competitive position;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the establishment of the University Human Resources System and the College Human Resources System effective July 1, 2006 in accordance with Chapter 933, Exhibit Q, “Policy Governing Human Resources for Participating Covered Employees and Other University Employees” of Chapter 3 known as the “2006 Management Agreement Between the Commonwealth of Virginia and The University of Virginia.”

WHEREAS, on June 11, 2005, the Board of Visitors approved a resolution committing the University to meet a set of eleven statewide goals as specified in Chapter 4.10, Section 23-38.88 B. of the Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act; and

WHEREAS, the General Assembly in 2006 passed HB346 which added a twelfth goal, “Seek to ensure the safety and security of the Commonwealth’s students on college and university campuses;”

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia commits to the Governor and General Assembly to meet the additional state goal related to safety and security; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors requests the President to transmit this resolution to the Governor and to the Secretary of Education.

Mr. Block recalled the Board’s interest in graduate student fellowships and noted that good graduate students are a vital part of the research and education mission of the University. Previously, graduate education at the University had been administered by the individual schools, but a centralized effort was deemed necessary to bring graduate education to the same level of national prominence as the undergraduate and professional schools. Accordingly, in May, 2004, Ms. Roseanne Ford, Professor of Chemical Engineering, became the Associate Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies and was charged with coordinating these efforts.

Mr. Block introduced Ms. Ford, who gave a presentation on graduate students at the University.

Ms. Ford made the point that to “rank among the best educational institutions, universities must recruit and retain the most talented graduate students.” Further, “top-ranked universities invest heavily in graduate students by providing consistent and predictable revenue streams.”

She then cited statistics showing the relative rankings of support offered graduate students at various institutions – the University does not rank well in these computations. Graduate student support, which is to say compensation packages, typically includes three elements: tuition and fees, health insurance and stipends/fellowships. Support for students at the University varies among the disciplines: graduate student teaching assistants in Biology, for example, fare better than graduate student teaching assistants in History.

Ms. Ford made the point that private funding is a significant element in supporting graduate students at some of the University’s peer institutions.

The Rector and several other Members commended Ms. Ford on her presentation. Mr. Rainey observed that the needs Ms. Ford outlined are important considerations for the Capital Campaign; the Rector said graduate student support no doubt will be an important part of the Agenda of the Educational Policy Committee in the forthcoming year.

This portion of the meeting ended at 2:45 p.m.

## EXECUTIVE SESSION

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session at 2:50 p.m. All Members present at the previous Open Session were present.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, and to consult with our legal counsel as may be needed on legal implications in financing budgeted priorities for the next fiscal year, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss the acquisition of real property for University purposes, where disclosure at this time would adversely affect the University’s bargaining and negotiation strategy, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (3) and (6) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss contract negotiations and a possible easement with respect to expansion of existing water pipeline facilities, as provided for in Section 2-2-3711 (A)(3),(6), and (30) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss a proposed gift and special awards recognition, as provided for in Section 2-2-3711 (A)(4),(8), and (10) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors go into Closed Session to discuss a proposed gift and special awards recognition and fundraising strategy in connection with our Capital Campaign, as provided for in Section 2-2-3711 (A)(4),(8), and (10) of the Code of Virginia.

The Board recessed at 4:00 p.m., in order to adjourn to the Dome Room of the Rotunda to consider several professorships and to hear a report on a naming.

## NAMINGS AND PROFESSORSHIPS

### ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT M. BLIZZARD PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRIC ENDOCRINOLOGY

### ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HUGH H. OBEAR 21ST CENTURY DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN CLASSICS

### ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SHURE PROFESSORSHIP IN PEDIATRIC NEUROLOGY

### CHANGE IN THE NAME OF THE JOSEPH WEINTRAUB-BANK OF AMERICA PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW TO THE JOSEPH WEINTRAUB-BANK OF AMERICA DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW

### LINDNER CENTER FOR ART HISTORY

The Board reconvened, in Open Session, at 4:05 p.m., in the Dome Room of the Rotunda and adopted the following resolutions:

WHEREAS, Dr. Robert M. Blizzard was a distinguished member of the faculty of the School of Medicine for twenty years and Chair of the Department of Pediatrics; and

WHEREAS, when he retired in 1994, Dr. Blizzard had trained more than 50 fellows in pediatric endocrinology, many of whom have become distinguished leaders in their field; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Blizzard has received national recognition for his contributions to pediatric endocrinology and to endocrinology and metabolism, and was co-founder and the first Director of the National Pituitary Agency; and

WHEREAS, a number of Dr. Blizzard’s colleagues, friends and former students have contributed generously to a professorship in his honor;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Robert M. Blizzard Professorship in Pediatric Endocrinology, to be held in the Department of Pediatrics in the School of Medicine, thanks the contributors to this chair for their generosity, commends Dr. Blizzard for his distinguished professional contributions, and thanks him for his devoted service to the University and to his profession.

WHEREAS, Hugh H. Obear took the LL.B. from the School of Law in 1906 and was for many years a distinguished lawyer in Washington, and at one time the President of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia; and

WHEREAS, Hugh H. Obear paid the college tuition of his nephew, Henry Norwood Obear, thus enabling him to attend the University; and

WHEREAS, Henry Norwood Obear matriculated in the University in 1929 and took his degree in 1933; and

WHEREAS, Henry Obear read law in his native South Carolina and was admitted to the South Carolina Bar, after which he established a practice in Winnsboro; and

WHEREAS, Henry Obear was a beloved and distinguished citizen of his city and state; and

WHEREAS, Henry Norwood Obear died in 2003, leaving a generous bequest to the University for a professorship to be named in honor of his uncle and benefactor, Hugh H. Obear;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Hugh H. Obear 21st Century Distinguished Professorship in Classics, to be held in the Department of Classics in the College of Arts and Sciences. In so doing, the Board pays tribute to the memory of Henry Norwood Obear of South Carolina, whose generosity made this chair possible.

WHEREAS, Randl and Allison Shure of Charlottesville, in gratitude for the treatment their son received at the University’s Children’s Hospital, have made a generous gift for a chair in pediatric neurology; and

WHEREAS, the Shures have taken an active role not only with the Children’s Hospital but with the Health System in general, Mr. Shure serving as Chair of the Children’s Hospital Campaign, as a trustee of the University of Virginia Health Foundation, and as a Member of the Medical Center Operating Board;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors establishes the Shure Professorship in Pediatric Neurology, to be held in the Department of Pediatrics of the School of Medicine. In so doing, the Board expresses its profound gratitude to Randl and Allison Shure not only for their generous gift which makes this chair possible, but for their leadership and support of the Children’s Hospital and the Health System as a whole.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors on October 5, 2000, established the Joseph Weintraub – Bank of America Professorship in Law, named principally for the late Joseph Weintraub of Miami, an alumnus of the College and of the School of Law; and

WHEREAS, gifts from the Joseph Weintraub Family Foundation and the Bank of America made possible the establishment of the chair; and

WHEREAS, in June, 2000, the Joseph Weintraub Family Foundation agreed to continue to deposit funds in the endowment supporting the Weintraub chair, with the understanding that when the market value of the endowment reached $1 million, the Law School would recommend to the Board of Visitors that the name of the chair be changed to the Joseph Weintraub – Bank of America Distinguished Professorship in Law; and

WHEREAS, the market value of the endowment is now comfortably in excess of $1 million;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors changes the name of the Joseph Weintraub – Bank of America Professorship in Law to the Joseph Weintraub – Bank of America Distinguished Professorship in Law. The Professorship will continue to be held in the School of Law; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its gratitude to Mr. Weintraub’s son, Michael Weintraub, himself an alumnus of both the College and the School of Law, who as Chairman of the Joseph Weintraub Family Foundation has continued the Foundation’s support of this professorship and of the Law School.

In addition, the Board heard a report on the naming of the Carl H. and Martha S. Lindner Center for Art History. The Center is not a building, but rather a generous endowment established by Mr. and Mrs. Lindner of Cincinnati for the support of Art History at the University. The gift was made in honor of their daughter, Blake Lindner, who took a B.A. in Art History in 2004.

## EXECUTIVE SESSION – CONTINUED

The Board resumed its meeting, in Executive Session, in the Board Room of the Rotunda at 4:30 p.m.

After approving the following resolution certifying that its deliberations in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions granted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed in Open Session at 4:40 p.m.

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

## FINAL SESSION

### APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT EASEMENT TO REPLACE AND RELOCATE A WATERLINE

### APPROVAL OF A PERMANENT ACCESS EASEMENT AT THE CAVALIER ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION TO PROVIDE REDUNDANT POWER

### APPROVAL OF UNIVERSITY REPRESENTATIVE TO THE ART AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD

### APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

### APPROVAL TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES TO THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE, THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

### APPROVAL OF THE AUDIT SCHEDULE

### APPROVAL OF THE COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE

### APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS

### APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A NEW DEGREE PROGRAM: B.A. AND MASTER OF PUBLIC POLICY (M.P.P.) DEGREE PROGRAM, TO BE OFFERED THROUGH THE COLLEGE AND GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

### APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH A NEW DEGREE PROGRAM: DOCTOR OF NURSING PRACTICE (DNP) DEGREE PROGRAM, TO BE OFFERED IN THE SCHOOL OF NURSING

### APPROVAL OF THE 2006-2007 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION

### APPROVAL OF THE 2006-2007 OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE

### APPROVAL OF THE 2006-2007 OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA MEDICAL CENTER

### APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER

### APPROVAL OF PRATT FUND DISTRIBUTION FOR 2006-2007

### APPROVAL OF ENDOWMENT SPENDING POLICY

### APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

### APPROVAL OF APPOINTMENT OF JANE HAYCOCK WOODS TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD

### APPROVAL OF REAPPOINTMENT OF EDWARD J. STEMMLER, M.D., TO THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD

### APPROVAL OF APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY BOARD

### APPROVAL TO ENTER INTO A JOINT VENTURE FOR A LONG TERM ACUTE CARE HOSPITAL

The following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement to the Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority to replace and relocate a sixteen inch waterline between the Dell and the Alderman Road pump-house, on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER this approval is conditioned on communication by the Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority with all affected neighbors of the waterline to describe the project and its impact on the area, as well as exploration by the Authority of all possible means to accomplish the work with the least damage to existing trees and vegetation; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

RESOLVED that the granting of a permanent easement to Dominion Power to provide redundant electric power to the Cavalier Electrical Substation, on property owned by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, is approved; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that appropriate officers of the University are authorized to execute said easement.

The Rector abstained from voting on the above resolution.

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 2.2-2400 of The Code of Virginia, the Governor appoints five citizen members to the Art and Architectural Review Board of the Commonwealth of Virginia; and

WHEREAS, the Code provides that one member be appointed from a list of persons nominated by the governing board of the University of Virginia;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors recommends to the Governor that Richard S. Minturn and Constance P. Warnock be considered for appointment to the citizen member position on the Art and Architectural Review Board to be nominated by the University of Virginia.

RESOLVED, the Department of Communication Studies is established at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise.

RESOLVED, the name of the Department of Mathematical Sciences at The University of Virginia’s College at Wise is changed to the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science.

RESOLVED that the Audit Schedule for Fiscal Year 2006-2007 is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

RESOLVED that the Compliance Schedule for the period July 1, 2006, through June 30, 2007, as presented by the Corporate Compliance Officer, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period March 1, 2006, through April 30, 2006, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit and Compliance Committee.

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the B.A. and Master of Public Policy (M.P.P.) Degree Program is established at the University of Virginia. The program is to be offered through the College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

RESOLVED that, subject to approval by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, the Doctor of Nursing Practice Degree Program is established at the University of Virginia’s School of Nursing.

RESOLVED that the 2006-2007 Operating Budget for the Academic Division is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

RESOLVED that the 2006-2007 Operating Budget for The University of Virginia’s College at Wise is approved, as recommended by the President and the Chief Financial Officer.

RESOLVED that the 2006-2007 Operating and Capital Budget for the University of Virginia Medical Center is approved, as recommended by the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Medical Center Operating Board. In approving this budget, the Board of Visitors takes note that flexibility in the proposed Medical Center operating margin must be allowed in order to accommodate costs related to high occupancy and limited bed availability.

RESOLVED, as the budget for 2006-2007 for the Commonwealth has not yet been approved, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to make whatever technical adjustments to the 2006-2007 University budget might be necessitated by the final State budget.

RESOLVED that the budget for the expenditure of funds from the Estate of John Lee Pratt be approved to supplement appropriations made by the Commonwealth of Virginia for the School of Medicine and Departments of Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics in the College of Arts and Sciences. Departmental allocations, not to exceed $3,368,652 for 2006-2007, are suggested by the department chairs and recommended by the dean of each school. To the extent the annual income from the endowment is not adequate to meet the recommended distribution, the principal of the endowment will be disinvested to provide funds for the approved budgets.

WHEREAS, the University’s current endowment spending policy, approved by the Board of Visitors in March 2005, calls for a percentage increase in the annual distribution from the endowment, unless such increase causes the distribution to fall outside a range defined as 3.5 percent on the low end and 5.5 percent on the high end of the market value of the Pooled Endowment Fund; and

WHEREAS, the policy specifies that if the distribution falls outside of this range, the Finance Committee may recommend either raising or lowering the rate; and

WHEREAS, the fiscal year 2006-2007 distribution as a percentage of March 31, 2006 market value will be below 3.5 percent of the market value for class A shares;

RESOLVED that for fiscal year 2006-2007, the spending rate for class A and class B shares will be adjusted to 4.0 percent of the market value at March 31, 2006, achieving the objective of the payment rate for class A shares that is equal to the payout rate for class B shares.

RESOLVED that Ms. Dawneda Fowler Williams, Messrs. Ernest H. Ern, Mike L. Allen, and C. Michael Puckett are appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for four year terms ending June 30, 2010; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that Mr. Michael G. McGlothlin, Ms. Eliza S. Rigg, Mr. James Michael Thomas, Dr. Joseph Frank Smiddy, and Mr. William J. Sturgill are re-appointed to The University of Virginia's College at Wise Board for terms ending June 30, 2010, in accordance with the terms of the Board’s bylaws.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors may appoint up to five public members of the Medical Center Operating Board whose initial terms are not to exceed four years;

RESOLVED, Jane Haycock Woods of Fairfax, is appointed to the Medical Center Operating Board as a public member for the period July 1, 2006, through June 30, 2010.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors may appoint up to five public members of the Medical Center Operating Board, with initial terms not to exceed four years and eligibility for reappointment for an additional term; and

WHEREAS, the term of Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., expires July 1, 2006, and the Board of Visitors desires to reappoint Dr. Stemmler to serve for an additional four year term;

RESOLVED, Edward J. Stemmler, M.D., is appointed to the Medical Center Operating Board as a public member for the period July 1, 2006, through June 30, 2010.

RESOLVED that Mark J. Kington of Alexandria, is appointed to the Board of Directors of the University of Virginia Investment Management Company for a term of three years, effective July 1, 2006. He will serve in this capacity until June 30, 2009.

WHEREAS, the Medical Center of the University of Virginia believes a number of its patients who are receiving inpatient care could benefit by moving to a long term care facility; and

WHEREAS, Section 23-77.3 of the Code of Virginia grants authority to the Medical Center to enter into joint ventures;

RESOLVED that the University, on behalf of the Medical Center, may enter into a joint venture with HealthSouth Corporation to create a long term acute care hospital to be located in Albemarle County, with the Medical Center's interest in the long term acute care hospital venture to be fifty percent;

RESOLVED FURTHER that on the recommendation of the Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of the Medical Center, and with the concurrence of the Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board and the Chair of the Finance Committee, the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University is authorized to negotiate and execute contracts and other legal documents pertaining to the creation and formation of the long term acute care hospital venture.

## REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

### APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES, AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION

### APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN TUITION, REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

| Virginian | Non-Virginian | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|-----------|----------------|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| Regular Session: | | | | | |
| Undergraduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school: | | | | | |
| All Full-time Students | $7,180 | $665 | 9.3% | $7,845 |
| All Full-time Students | $24,100 | $1,845 | 7.7% | $25,945 |
| Graduate School - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school: | | | | | |
| All Full-time Students | $9,800 | $750 | 7.7% | $10,550 |
| All Full-time Students | $20,400 | $150 | 0.7% | $20,550 |
| School of Commerce - Grad Accounting - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University Activity Fee and excluding School Activity Fee which varies by school: | | | | | |
| All Full-time Students | $22,700 | $500 | 2.2% | $23,200 |
| All Full-time Students | $27,700 | $1,300 | 4.7% | $29,000 |
| School of Medicine - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees: | | | | | |
| Full-time Students Entering Fall 2006 | n/a | n/a | n/a | $30,100 |
| Full-time Students Entering Fall 2005 | $28,700 | $1,400 | 4.9% | $30,100 |
| Full-time Students Entering Fall 2004 | $28,200 | $1,400 | 5.0% | $29,600 |
| Full-time Students Entering Fall 2003 | $26,200 | $1,400 | 5.3% | $27,600 |
| Full-time Students Entering Fall 2003 | $38,700 | $1,400 | 3.6% | $40,100 |
| Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees: | | | | | |
| Regular Session Full-time Students | $32,300 | $2,700 | 8.4% | $35,000 |
| All Full-time Students | $37,300 | $2,700 | 7.2% | $40,000 |
| School of Law - Tuition and All Required Fees, including University and School Activity Fees: | | | | | |
| All Full-time Students | $28,300 | $2,400 | 8.5% | $30,700 |
| All Full-time Students | $33,300 | $2,400 | 7.2% | $35,700 |

| Virginian | Non-Virginian | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|-----------|----------------|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| SPECIAL SESSION: | | | | | |
| School of Continuing and Professional Studies Tuition Rates: | | | | | |
| Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies (per sem.) | $2,728 | $135 | 4.9% | $2,863 |
| Undergraduate Per Hour | $190 | $10 | 5.3% | $200 |
| Graduate Per Hour | $235 | $10 | 4.3% | $245 |
| K-12 Educators Per Hour | $200 | $10 | 5.0% | $210 |
| Undergraduate Distance Learning Per Hour | $231 | $14 | 6.1% | $245 |
| Graduate Distance Learning Per Hour | $257 | $13 | 5.1% | $270 |
| Graduate Televised Engineering Per Hour | $351 | $9 | 2.6% | $360 |
| Special SCPS Students Per Hour | $242 | $8 | 3.3% | $250 |
| Special SCPS Students Per Hour – High School Students | $190 | $10 | 5.3% | $200 |
| Study Abroad (per semester) 3-7 hours | $2,200 | $110 | 5.0% | $2,310 |
| Study Abroad (per semester) 8-15 hours | $3,850 | $200 | 5.2% | $4,050 |
| Music Lessons (13 1-hr lessons/semester) | $654 | $ - | 0.0% | $654 |
| Northern Virginia Facilities Fee Per Hour | $17 | $ - | 0.0% | $17 |
| Technology Fee (per hour) | $4 | $ - | 0.0% | $4 |
| 2007 Summer Session, 2007 January Term and Mt. Lake Biological Station: | | | | | |
| Undergraduate Per Semester Hour | $186 | $14 | 7.5% | $200 |
| Graduate Per Semester Hour | $229 | $1 | 0.4% | $230 |
| Thesis/Dissertation Research | $849 | $2 | 0.2% | $850 |
| Appellate Judges Program | $1,400 | $ - | 0.0% | 1,400 |
| Non-Resident Fee | $115 | $ - | 0.2% | $115 |
| Summer Foreign Language Institute Fee | $40 | $ - | 0.0% | $40 |
| Mt. Lake Laboratory Use Fee | $90 | $3 | 3.3% | $93 |
| Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher – Senior Investigators | $262 | $8 | 3.1% | $270 |
| Mt. Lake Non-UVa Researcher – Co-Investigators/Students | $69 | $2 | 2.9% | $71 |
| 2007 New Student Orientation Fee | $190 | $ - | 0.0% | $190 |

(The Orientation Fee will be rolled into the total tuition and fee bill for first year and transfer students in the first year of enrollment.)

### OTHER:

Other contracted course and cooperative program tuition and required fee rates, including tuition for specialized graduate and professional credit courses, approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures by the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.

| All Students | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|--------------|------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| Other Charges: | | | | |
| Application Fee – Undergraduate | $60 | $ - | 0.0% | $60 |
| Application Fee – Graduate | $60 | $ - | 0.0% | $60 |
| Application Fee – Law | $70 | $ - | 0.0% | $70 |
| Application Fee – Darden | $140 | $ - | 0.0% | $140 |
| Application Fee – Darden Executive | $200 | $ - | 0.0% | $200 |
| MBA | Application Fee – Medicine | $75 | $ - | 0.0% | $75 |
| Application Fee – SCPS | $25 | $ - | 0.0% | $25 |
| Application Fee - SCPS BIS | $60 | $ - | 0.0% | $60 |
| Application Fee – Commerce | $40 | $15 | 37.5% | $55 |
| Activity Fee – All Full-time Students | $47 | $ - | 0.0% | $47 |
| Activity Fee – Arts & Sciences | $6 | $2 | 33.3% | $8 |
| Activity Fee – Architecture | $53 | $7 | 13.2% | $60 |
| Activity Fee – Commerce | $55 | $15 | 27.3% | $70 |
| Activity Fee – Darden | $55 | $ - | 0.0% | $55 |
| Activity Fee – Education | $10 | $ - | 0.0% | $10 |
| Activity Fee – Engineering | $10 | $ - | 0.0% | $10 |
| Activity Fee – Grad. Arts & Sciences | $10 | $ - | 0.0% | $10 |
| Activity Fee – Law School | $40 | $ - | 0.0% | $40 |
| Activity Fee – Medicine | $49 | $ - | 0.0% | $49 |
| Activity Fee – Nursing | $15 | $ - | 0.0% | $15 |
| Residential College Fee – Hereford | $120 | $ - | 0.0% | $120 |
| Residential College Fee – Brown | $120 | $ - | 0.0% | $120 |
| Residential College Fee – International | $220 | $ - | 0.0% | $220 |
| Residential College Fee – Mosaic | $220 | $ - | 0.0% | $220 |
| Residential College Fee – French | $100 | $ - | 0.0% | $100 |
| Residential College Fee – Spanish | $100 | $ - | 0.0% | $100 |
| Residential College Fee – Monroe Lane | $100 | $ - | 0.0% | $100 |
| International Student Fee | $100 | $ - | 0.0% | $100 |

| Virginian | Non-Virginian | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|-----------|----------------|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| University Transit | $116 | $10 | 8.6% | $126 |
| Escort Services | $5 | $(1) | -20.0% | $4 |
| Recreational Facilities | $215 | $12 | 5.6% | $227 |
| Auxiliary Debt Service | $83 | $2 | 2.4% | $85 |
| Athletics | $512 | $36 | 7.0% | $548 |
| Student Health | $335 | $24 | 7.2% | $359 |
| Newcomb Hall Operating | $121 | $12 | 9.9% | $133 |
| Student Programming | $26 | $2 | 7.7% | $28 |
| WTJU6 | $6 | $ - | 0.0% | $6 |
| OOS Debt Service - Capital Outlay and ETF | $ - | $ - | 0.0% | $ - |
| Classroom Renewal Fee | $24 | $6 | 25.0% | $30 |
| Arts Fee | $12 | $ - | 0.0% | $12 |
| Technology Fee | $45 | $ - | 0.0% | $45 |

### TOTAL FOR ALL STUDENTS

| Virginian | Non-Virginian | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|-----------|----------------|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| $1,531 | $138 | 9.0% | $1,669 | $1,707 | $138 | 8.1% | $1,845 |

| Virginian | Non-Virginian | 2005-06 Approved | Amount of Increase | Percent of Increase | 2006-07 Proposed |
|-----------|----------------|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| Full-time Students (12 hrs or more per semester) | Tuition and Required E\&G Fees | $3,041 | $271 | 8.9% | $3,312 |
| Auxiliary Fees | $2,040 | $340 | 16.7% | $2,380 |
| Total Tuition and Required Fees | $5,081 | $611 | 12.0% | $5,692 |
| $15,209 | $1,519 | 10.0% | $16,728 |

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the tuition rates listed below:

### Other Charges

| Off-Campus Instruction per hour | $123 | $11 | 8.9% | $134 |
| Non-Credit Courses per unit | $50 | $9 | 18.0% | $59 |
| Application Fee | $25 | $ - | 0.0% | $25 |
| Graduation Fee | $50 | $50 | 100.0% | $100 |
| Registration Fee for part-time students will be $5 per semester hour. |

The Rector reported on the following actions taken by the Executive Committee at its meeting on April 22, 2006, and on May 17, 2006:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the Academic Division be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2006:

RESOLVED that the annual required fees for students enrolled in more than 3 credit hours per semester be established, effective July 1, 2006, in the amount of $1,669 for in-state students and $1,845 for out-of-state students; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the full-time mandatory regular session fee be allocated for 2006-07 as follows:

RESOLVED that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to The University of Virginia’s College at Wise be approved as shown below, effective July 1, 2006:

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to approve reduced tuition rates for the residents of Kentucky and Tennessee who live in counties that are within a 50-mile radius of The University of Virginia’s College at Wise and who are enrolled at the College in accordance with Section 23-7.4:2.F. of the Code of Virginia.

## APPROVAL OF WAR OF 1812 MARKER AT THE SOUTHERN ENTRANCE OF THE UNIVERSITY CEMETERY

### WAR OF 1812 VETERANS BURIED IN THIS CEMETERY

* Captain Henry Howard
* Private George Tucker
* Sergeant Edmond Broadus
* Private William Tucker
* Private William McCoy
* Private William Wertenbaker
* Private William Ward
* Private Henry Rogers

WHEREAS, the War of 1812 Society in Virginia wishes to present a plaque commemorating the veterans of the War of 1812 buried in the University Cemetery; and

WHEREAS, among the veterans to be commemorated are several of the most prominent figures in the early history of the University;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the placing of a memorial plaque honoring the veterans of the War of 1812 buried in the University Cemetery, the wording of the plaque being appended to this resolution, and thanks the War of 1812 Society in Virginia for its generosity; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, the marker is to be placed at the southern entrance to the Cemetery.

This plaque presented by the War of 1812 Society in Virginia – 2006

## RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MARK J. KINGTON

WHEREAS, Mark J. Kington of Alexandria, but a native of Tennessee, took a B.S. from the University of Tennessee and an M.B.A. from the Darden School; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington has a strong background in communications and information technology and is a founding partner of Columbia Capital LLC, of Alexandria, a private equity firm focused on communications and technology; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington is an officer or director of several other investment and wireless communications companies; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington has a keen interest in history and in historic preservation, interests manifested in his service on several important boards concerned with historical and preservation questions and in the restoration of his house in Alexandria, a building of some historical importance; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington was appointed to the Board of Visitors by Governor Warner in 2002; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington served the Board and the University with great distinction as a Member of the Executive Committee and as Chair of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, among other assignments; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Kington’s term on the Board expired in March, 2006;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks its friend and colleague, Mark J. Kington, for his devoted and exemplary service to the Board and to the University of Virginia.

## RE-ELECTION OF THE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS

RESOLVED that Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., be re-elected as Secretary to the Board of Visitors, for a term of four years, effective March 1, 2006.

## APPOINTMENT OF BOARD OF VISITORS REPRESENTATIVE TO THE INSTITUTE FOR SHIPBOARD EDUCATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia became the academic sponsor of the Institute for Shipboard Education’s Semester at Sea program by agreement dated December 12, 2005; and

WHEREAS, this agreement states that the Institute for Shipboard Education will add two voting members to its Board of Directors, one appointed by and representing the Board of Visitors, the other a member of the senior administration of the University of Virginia appointed by and representing the President; and

WHEREAS, the Vice President and Provost of the University, Gene D. Block, has played an important role in the establishment of the relationship with the Institute for Shipboard Education and will continue to do so as Vice President and Provost;

RESOLVED, that the Board appoints Gene D. Block to serve as the Board of Visitors representative to the Board of Directors of the Institute for Shipboard Education for a term of three years.

## AUTHORIZATION TO PURCHASE PROPERTY ON 10TH STREET N.W. IN CHARLOTTESVILLE

WHEREAS, a parcel of .684 acres (29,795 square feet) situated between West Main Street and 10th Street in Charlottesville, and known as 129 10th Street N.W., has become available for purchase adjacent to University property on West Main Street (the legal description of this property is as follows:

TMP 100039000, having been acquired by Seller by deeds dated January 2, 2002, and September 27, 2002, recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, in Deed Book 835, page 551, and in Deed Book 871, page 581, respectively, together with all of Seller’s right, title and interest in and to 10-1/2 Street \[collectively, the “Property”]); and

WHEREAS, this property contains a surface parking lot but no structures; and

WHEREAS, the property will provide additional parking space for Health System employees and additional street access for future redevelopment of the Stacy Hall property on West Main Street; and

WHEREAS, the University of Virginia Foundation has entered into a purchase agreement with the owners of this property, subject to authorization by the Board;

RESOLVED that the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, with the concurrence of the chair of the Finance Committee, is authorized to negotiate an appropriate purchase price for the property at 129 10th Street N.W. in Charlottesville; and to execute, or authorize execution of, any and all contracts and other documents pertaining to the acquisition of such property by the University or by the University of Virginia Foundation.

## FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS

### ELECTIONS

RESOLVED that the following persons are elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the actions relating to the chairholders are approved as shown below:

RESOLVED that the election of Mr. Eric van Wincoop as Robert P. Black Research Professor of Economics, effective August 25, 2006, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated April 7-8, 2006, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons are promoted:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

RESOLVED that Mr. Gene D. Block is re-elected Vice President and Provost, for five years, effective August 25, 2006.

The following deaths were announced:

## THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

### SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:45 p.m.

## ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

### Meeting Date: June 9, 2006

## CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

## ATTACHMENT A

### IT POLICIES

* University Information Technology Project Management Policy
* University Information Technology Security Program Policy
* University Information Technology Infrastructure, Architecture, and Ongoing Operations Policy
* University Information Technology Accessibility Policy

**Contact Office:** Office of Information Technologies

**Oversight Executive:** Vice President & CIO

**Applies to:** University Academic Division, Medical Center, and College at Wise

**Reason for Policy:** The University is committed to continuously improving the delivery of information technology (IT) solutions within budget, on schedule, within scope and in such a way as to best contribute to accomplishing the University’s strategic mission. This policy furthers that goal by establishing the common and consistent application of project management best practices in the management of IT projects. A uniform project management framework promotes consistency and better control of IT projects, thereby reducing risks and increasing project successes.

**Definitions:**

**Policy Statement:** Information technology projects are managed in accordance with best practices promoted by the nationally recognized Project Management Institute (PMI), appropriately tailored to the specific circumstances of the University. For example, project managers possess professional credentials and/or an appropriate level of project management training or experience. Projects that engage leading IT consulting or software development firms to assist with project management may apply additional best practices provided by these firms.

Methods used for project auditing, such as Independent Verification and Validation (IV\&V), are aligned with industry best practices, consultant expert guidelines, and known industry accepted standards such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 1012-2004 for Software Verification and Validation, International Standards Organization (ISO) 9000-2000 series, and Software Engineering Institute Capability Maturity Model (SEI-CMM). These methods are tailored to the Higher Education environment by internal departments and in coordination with consultants as warranted.

**Exclusions:** The scope of this policy does not extend to research projects, research initiatives, or instructional programs.

An overview of the University’s IT Project Management Framework, along with procedures, templates, and tools are posted at: <links to be added>

**Procedures:** N/A

**Related Information:**

* Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 1012-2004 for Software Verification and Validation– Software Verification and Validation (V\&V) processes determine whether the development products of a given activity conform to the requirements of that activity and whether the software satisfies its intended use and user needs. Software V\&V processes includes analysis, evaluation, review, inspection, assessment, and testing of software products.

* International Organization for Standardization (ISO) – Quality Management Principles (ISO 9000:2000) – ISO 9001:2000 specifies requirements for a quality management system for any organization that needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements and aims to enhance customer satisfaction.

* Project Management Institute – The world’s leading not-for-profit professional association in the area of project management. http://www.pmi.org/

* Project Management Institute. October 2004. A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide) - Third Edition.

* Software Engineering Institute - Capability Maturity Model Integration (SEI-CMMI) – The CMM outlines the methods to obtain software process maturity. Several levels of maturity can be reached as an organization’s software project management evolves from that of chaotic non-repeatable performances to repeatable mature disciplined software processes. The model focuses on key attributes of each improved maturity level and provides guidance on the best practices used to achieve each level. The goal is to reach an efficient and disciplined approach to software management.

**Background:** The Commonwealth of Virginia Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005 grants institutions additional authority over financial and administrative operations, on condition that certain commitments to the Commonwealth are met. The University of Virginia’s Management Agreement with the Commonwealth provides full delegated responsibility for management of the institution’s information technology project management and project auditing activities. This delegation includes the authority to conduct these activities in accordance with industry best practices appropriately tailored for the specific circumstances of the University, in lieu of following Commonwealth-determined specifications. This policy documents the industry best practices with which the University will align its project management and project auditing activities.

**Contact Office:** Office of Information Technologies

**Oversight Executive:** Vice President & CIO

**Applies to:** University Academic Division, Medical Center, and College at Wise

**Reason for Policy:** The University has a highly complex and resource-rich information technology environment upon which there is increasing reliance to provide mission-critical academic, instructional and administrative functions. Safeguarding the institution’s computing assets in the face of growing security threats is a significant challenge requiring a strong, persistent, and coordinated program that leverages widely accepted, effective security practices appropriate for the higher education environment. This policy states the codes of practice with which the University aligns its information technology security program.

**Definitions:** N/A

**Policy Statement:** The University’s information technology security program is based upon best practices recommended in the “Code of Practice for Information Security Management” published by the International Organization for Standardization and the International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 17799), appropriately tailored to the specific circumstances of the University. The program also incorporates security requirements of applicable regulations, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Professional organizations, such as the national EDUCAUSE Association and the Virginia Alliance for Secure Computing and Networking, serve as resources for additional effective security practices.

The ISO/IEC 17799 Code of Practice and other sources noted above are used to guide development and ongoing enhancement of additional information technology security policies as needed. All policies governing information technology security can be found in the University’s policy directory and at:

**Procedures:** N/A

**Related Information:**

* “Code of Practice for Information Security Management” (ISO/IEC 17799) – This international standard defines guidelines and general principles for the effective management of information security within an organization. It is a risk-based framework widely used to guide establishment of security standards and management practices.

* EDUCAUSE Association – EDUCAUSE is a nonprofit association dedicated to the advancement of higher education through the effective use of information technology. Members include representatives from institutions of higher education, higher education technology companies, and other related organizations.

* International Organization for Standards (ISO) – The world’s largest developer of standards, the organization is made up of representatives from governmental and private sector standard bodies, e.g. the American National Standards Institute.

* International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) – The IEC is a global organization that develops and published standards addressing electrical, electronic and related technologies. Membership comes from government, the private sector, consumer groups, professional associations, and others.

* Virginia Alliance for Secure Computing and Networking (VA SCAN) – VA SCAN was formed to help strengthen information technology security programs within Virginia. The Alliance was organized and is operated by security practitioners and researchers from several Virginia higher education institutions, including the University of Virginia.

**Background:** The Commonwealth of Virginia Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005 grants institutions additional authority over financial and administrative operations, on condition that certain commitments to the Commonwealth are met. The University of Virginia’s Management Agreement with the Commonwealth provides full delegated responsibility for management of the institution’s information technology security activities. This delegation includes the authority to conduct these activities in accordance with industry best practices appropriately tailored for the specific circumstances of the University, in lieu of following Commonwealth-determined specifications. This policy documents the industry best practices with which the University will align its security activities.

**Contact Office:** Office of Information Technologies

**Oversight Executive:** Vice President & CIO

**Applies to:** University Academic Division, Medical Center, and College at Wise

**Reason for Policy:** It is critically important that the University of Virginia’s information technology (IT) infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations support the mission of the institution. To help ensure this need is met, decisions affecting these areas must reflect standards, guidelines, and practices found to be effective in the higher education environment. This policy establishes the nationally recognized codes of practice with which the University aligns its IT infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations.

**Definitions:** N/A

**Policy Statement:** The University maintains a list of specific standards and guidelines that should influence decisions affecting key components of its IT infrastructure, architecture, and operations. These standards and guidelines align with industry best practices, appropriately tailored for the specific circumstances of the University, as described by EDUCAUSE, Internet2, and others within higher education, as well as those from healthcare and selected technology industries. It is not the intent of this guidance to in any way inhibit research or other institutional endeavors that by their nature may require the use of cutting-edge technology not yet appropriate for normal use. The guidance is descriptive rather than prescriptive to achieve flexibility where needed. The ultimate goal is to create logical relationships between information technology resources and the mission of the university and its units.

This policy applies to all university information technology, whether owned and operated by the university, or used for university business through contractual arrangements.

An overview of the framework for infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations, along with the standards and guidelines are posted at: <links to be added>

When decisions are made regarding IT infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations, the decision maker should consult this information for guidance.

**Procedures:** N/A

**Related Information:**

The following is a sampling of higher education sources for IT best practices and evolving trends:

* The Campus Cyberinfrastructure Working Group of Net@EDU helps educational institutions develop institutional strategies and plan their resource deployment in this emerging and evolving technological landscape and helps their users harness and optimize the power and capabilities of new integrated IT tools and systems for educational and research applications in higher education.

* EDUCAUSE is a nonprofit association whose mission is to advance higher education by promoting the intelligent use of information technology. http://educause.edu

* Health Level Seven is an international standards-setting organization operating in the healthcare arena, specifically in the area of clinical and administrative data.

* Internet2 develops and deploys advanced network applications and technologies for research and higher education, accelerating the creation of tomorrow's Internet.

* The National LambdaRail develops and deploys a fiber optic network infrastructure for the purpose of advancing research, clinical, and educational goals.

* The Postsecondary Electronic Standards Council is a non-profit association of colleges and universities; professional and commercial organizations; data, software and service providers; and state and federal government agencies.

**Background:** The Commonwealth of Virginia Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005 grants institutions additional authority over financial and administrative operations, on condition that certain commitments to the Commonwealth are met. The University of Virginia’s Management Agreement with the Commonwealth provides full delegated responsibility for management of the institution’s information technology infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations. This delegation includes the authority to conduct these activities in accordance with industry best practices appropriately tailored for the specific circumstances of the University, in lieu of following Commonwealth-determined specifications. This policy documents the industry best practices with which the University will align its infrastructure, architecture, and ongoing operations.

## Contact Office:

Office of Information Technologies

**Oversight Executive:** Vice President & CIO

**Applies to:** University Academic Division, Medical Center, and College at Wise

**Reason for Policy:** This policy is established to support the University of Virginia community in promoting equal access opportunity to information technology by the application of accessibility standards, guidelines, training, tools and methods consistent with higher education and their medical centers. The aim is to provide this opportunity in a setting that fosters independence and meets the guidelines of the Americans with Disability Act (ADA) and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. This policy sets forth accessibility standards and guidelines that reflect best practices for achieving the accessibility of information technology for use by persons with disabilities.

### Definitions:

**Accessibility:** refers to the University objective that everyone within the University community, regardless of physical disability, will have the opportunity for appropriate access to information technology.

### Policy Statement:

The procurement, development, and/or maintenance of information technology and user support services for persons with disabilities align with accessibility standards specified in Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act and in "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines" from the World Wide Web Consortium, appropriately tailored to the specific circumstances of the University and its Medical Center.

Accessibility standards are designed to evolve and change, as newer technologies are introduced and user needs change. At the same time, the standards maintain a consistent framework for accessibility training and support services. University information technology development, maintenance, training, and support personnel who are responsible for information technology procurement, programs, and services possess an appropriate level of technical knowledge related to accessibility standards for persons with disabilities.

An overview of information technology accessibility issues and tools is provided at: <links to be added>

**Procedures:** N/A

**Related Information:**

* U.S. Government – Americans with Disability Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Section 504 standards.

* U.S. Government – the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Section 508 standards.

* The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is an international organization that develops inter-operable technologies (technologies that can communicate with each other), e.g., specifications, guidelines, software, and tools, to lead the Web to its full potential. W3C is a forum of information, commerce, communication, and collective understanding. Of particular relevance are the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 Copyright © 1999 W3C (MIT, INRIA, Keio) and the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 Copyright © 2005 W3C ® (MIT, ERCIM , Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C liability, trademark and document use rules apply.

## BACKGROUND:

The Commonwealth of Virginia Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005 grants institutions additional authority over financial and administrative operations, on condition that certain commitments to the Commonwealth are met. The University of Virginia’s Management Agreement with the Commonwealth provides full delegated responsibility for management of the institution’s information technology architecture, infrastructure, and ongoing operations, of which IT accessibility is a part. This delegation includes the authority to conduct these activities in accordance with industry best practices appropriately tailored for the specific circumstances of the University, in lieu of following Commonwealth-determined specifications. This policy documents the industry best practices with which the University will align its IT accessibility activities.

## RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD

### MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, MAY 11,
