Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 7, 2006

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS APRIL 7-8, 2006
------------------------------------------------------------

PAGE

Approval of the Minutes of the February 3, 2006 Meeting of the Board

7075

Resolution for Addenda to the Agenda

7076

Resolution Commending Catherine S. Neale

7076

Naming of the Claude Moore Nursing Education Building

7079

Naming of the Boyd Tinsley Courts

7079

Change in the Name of a Professorship to the John L. Colley, Jr., Research Professorship in Business Administration

7080

Change in the Name of a Professorship to the Nabi Biopharmaceuticals Professorship in Transplantation

7080

Acceptance of Gifts and Grants Report

7082

Adoption of the Governor’s Statement on Equal Employment Opportunity as University Policy

7082

Approval of Increase in Faculty and Staff Housing Rates for 2006-2007

7084

Approval to Establish the Mellon Prostate Cancer Research Fund with an Investment of $8 Million

7086

Approval of Historical Marker at the University of Virginia Cemetery

7086

Approval of the Establishment of a Presidents’ Plot at the University Cemetery

7086

Delegation of Authority to Establish Cemetery and Columbarium Policies

7087

Approval of Contract Rates for Dining Services for 2006-2007 for the Academic Division and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

7087

PAGE

Approval of an Increase in the Amount of Short-Term Loans for the Construction of the John Paul Jones Arena

7088

Approval of the University’s Debt Policy and Interest Rate Risk Management Policy

7089

Approval of the University’s Capital and Operating Reserves Policy

7089

Resolution to Authorize Transfer of Endowment Funds from the University to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation

7090

Approval of Summary of Audit Findings

7090

Faculty Personnel Actions

Elections

7091

Actions Relating to Chairholders

Election of Chairholders

7092

Change of Title of Chairholder

7093

Retirement of Chairholders

7093

Promotion

7093

Change in the Title of the Promotion of Dr. Marcia McDuffie

7093

Special Salary Actions

7094

Change in the Special Salary Action of Mr. Evan S. Marcus

7095

Resignations

7096

Retirements

7096

Appointments

7097

Re-appointments

7097

Change in the Title of the Re-Appointment of Ms. Lynn M. Mitchell

7098

Re-Election of Dr. Robert E. Reynolds as Vice President and Chief Information Officer

7098

Re-Election of Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

7098

Election of Professors Emeriti

7098

Election of Associate Professors Emeriti

7099

Deaths

7099

The University of Virginia’s College at Wise

Election

7100

Special Salary Actions

7100

Retirement

7100

Election of Professor Emeritus

7101

PAGE

Resolution Adopted by the Medical Center Operating Board on February 23, 2006 Credentialing and Recredentialing Actions

7103

Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on April 6, 2006 South Lawn ProjectObservatory Hill Residence Hall

7103

TENTATIVE MINUTES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS April 7-8, 2006
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Preliminary and Open Session, at 1:20 p.m., Friday, April 7, 2006, in the Board Room of the Rotunda; Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector, presided. W. Heywood Fralin, Daniel R. Abramson, A. Macdonald Caputo, Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Mrs. Georgia Willis Fauber, G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr., Ms. Glynn D. Key, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., Lewis F. Payne, Don R. Pippin, Gordon F. Rainey, Jr., Warren M. Thompson, E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D., and Ms. Catherine S. Neale were present.

Also present were Leonard W. Sandridge, Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., Paul J. Forch, Gene D. Block, R. Edward Howell, Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin, Robert E. Reynolds, M.D., Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds, Robert D. Sweeney, David J. Prior, and Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes.

Mr. James L. Hilton and Ms. Anne Elizabeth Mullen were present as well.

The Rector asked Mr. Payne to lead the Board in the Pledge of Allegiance.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE FEBRUARY 3, 2006 MEETING OF THE BOARD
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector asked for a motion to approve the Minutes of the meeting of February 3rd. On motion, the Minutes were approved.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector introduced Mr. Daniel R. Abramson of Alexandria, newly appointed to the Board by the Governor, vice Mr. Kington. He also introduced Ms. Anne Elizabeth Mullen of Albemarle County, a third year student in the College and the Student Member-elect; Ms. Mullen assumes office at the conclusion of the April Board meeting.

INTRODUCTION OF MR. JAMES L. HILTON
-----------------------------------

The Rector asked Mr. Sandridge to introduce the Vice President-elect and Chief Information Officer, Mr. James L. Hilton. Mr. Hilton is presently at the University of Michigan and will assume his new duties on July 1, vice Dr. Reynolds, who is retiring.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As there is a vacancy on the Executive Committee with the departure of Mr. Kington from the Board, a replacement must be elected. The Board Manual specifies that the full Board votes on a candidate nominated by the Rector. The Rector announced that he would have a nominee to be considered by the Board at the June meeting.

COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS
---------------------

The Rector said he would make new Committee assignments before the June meeting, and he invited Members to indicate their Committee preferences to him.

RESOLUTION FOR ADDENDA TO THE AGENDA
------------------------------------

According to the Board Manual, additions to the published Agenda of a Board meeting may be made by vote of the Board. The Rector asked for a motion approving addenda to the Agenda.

On motion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the addition of items to the Agenda, for consideration by the Board.

RESOLUTION COMMENDING CATHERINE S. NEALE
----------------------------------------

The Rector then proposed the following resolution, honoring Ms. Catherine S. Neale, the outgoing Student Member:

WHEREAS, Catherine S. Neale of Richmond, a fourth year student in the College, has served as the Student Member of the Board of Visitors since April, 2005; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Neale has been an honor student in History and American Studies with a particular interest in the 19th century history of the University; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Neale has not only been recognized for her academic achievements, but has been an active member of a wide variety of University organizations and thus an effective resource on student opinion for her colleagues on the Board; and

WHEREAS, Ms. Neale’s term of office as the Student Member ends at the conclusion of the Board meeting on April 8, 2006;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors thanks its colleague and friend, Catherine S. Neale, for her devoted service to the Board and to the University, expresses its appreciation for her friendship, and wishes her every success and happiness as she completes her undergraduate studies in May.

The resolution was approved.

SETTING OF THE BOARD MEETING DATES FOR 2008
-------------------------------------------

February 7 and 8

April 10 and 11

June 12 and 13

July 25 and 26 - RETREAT

October 2 and 3

The Rector announced the Board meeting dates for 2008; they are as follows:

SUMMER ORIENTATION
------------------

The Secretary distributed a note to the Board asking for volunteers to speak at each of the orientation sessions for incoming students in July. The Rector seconded the Secretary’s request.

The Board ended its Preliminary Meeting at 1:40 p.m., and next heard reports from several Committee Chairs on resolutions proposed by their Committees.

This portion of the Board meeting, labeled “Committee Business” on the Agenda, ended at 1:50 p.m.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
-----------------

After adopting the following motions, the Board went into Executive Session at 1:50 p.m. All Members present at the previous Open Session were present.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Closed Session to consult with General Counsel regarding his privileged legal report to the Board on pending and anticipated litigation affecting the University, as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A)(7) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Closed Session for the purpose of discussing and/or approving personnel actions involving the appointment, reappointment, nomination, evaluation, compensation, and resignation of specific University officers and employees as provided for in Section 2.2-3711 (A) (1) of the Code of Virginia.

That the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia go into Closed Session to review and discuss with legal counsel coordination of gift development and fund-raising activity by the University and affiliated foundations, in order to properly maximize private support of the University in connection with Capital Campaign planning, as provided for in Section 2.2-3722 (A)(7) and (8) of the Code of Virginia.

After adopting the following resolution certifying that its deliberations in Executive Session had been conducted in accordance with the exemptions permitted by the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, the Board resumed in Open Session at 4:12 p.m., and recessed:

That we vote on and record our certification that, to the best of each Board member’s knowledge, only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements and which were identified in the motion(s) authorizing the closed session, were heard, discussed or considered in closed session.

NAMINGS AND PROFESSORSHIPS NAMING OF THE CLAUDE MOORE NURSING EDUCATION BUILDING NAMING OF THE BOYD TINSLEY COURTS CHANGE IN THE NAME OF A PROFESSORSHIP TO THE JOHN L. COLLEY, JR., RESEARCH PROFESSORSHIP IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CHANGE IN THE NAME OF A PROFESSORSHIP TO THE NABI BIOPHARMACEUTICALS PROFESSORSHIP IN TRANSPLANTATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board reconvened, in Open Session, at 4:30 p.m., in the Lower East Oval Room of the Rotunda and adopted the following resolutions:

WHEREAS, the late Dr. Claude Moore, an alumnus of the School of Medicine, in his will directed the establishment of the Claude Moore Charitable Foundation; and

WHEREAS, the Foundation has made a very generous gift toward the construction of the new nursing education building on 15th Street, SW, at the School of Nursing;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the new nursing education building the Claude Moore Nursing Education Building and thanks the Claude Moore Foundation for this latest instance of its generosity and support.

WHEREAS, Boyd C. Tinsley, a native of Charlottesville, an alumnus of the University, and a well known musician, is passionate about both music and tennis; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Tinsley’s many benefactions to his community involve both music and tennis; and

WHEREAS, the indoor tennis facility at the Boar’s Head Sports Club is being expanded as a joint project of the Club and the Virginia Athletics Foundation; and

WHEREAS, three of the twelve courts of the expanded facility are to be reserved for the use of the women’s and men’s tennis programs of the University; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Tinsley has been the major donor for these three courts;

RESOLVED, the three courts at the expanded Boar’s Head Sports Club indoor tennis facility to be used for the University of Virginia’s tennis programs are named the Boyd Tinsley Courts. In taking this action, the Board thanks Mr. Tinsley for his generosity and support and commends him for his many benefactions to the Charlottesville community.

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors in 1995 established the Alumni Research Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden School of Business; and

WHEREAS, it was the intent of the donors in 1995 that the Professorship honor Professor John L. Colley, Jr., of the Darden School and that the chair be renamed for him on his retirement; and

WHEREAS, under the rules for naming now obtaining, professorships can be named for active members of the faculty; and

WHEREAS, John L. Colley, Jr., the Almand R. Coleman Professor of Business Administration, has been a member of the Darden School faculty since 1967 and has been a profound influence on generations of students;

RESOLVED, the name of the Alumni Research Professorship in Business Administration is changed to the John L. Colley, Jr., Research Professorship in Business Administration, to be held in the Darden School of Business. In so doing, the Board commends and thanks Mr. Colley for his years of devoted and exemplary service to the Darden School and to the University.

WHEREAS, Nabi, a biopharmaceutical company now known as Nabi Biopharmaceuticals, made a generous gift to the University for a professorship in the School of Medicine; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors, in 1999, accordingly established the Nabi Professorship in Pharmacology; and

WHEREAS, Nabi Biopharmaceuticals and the University have amended the original agreement between them to grant the Dean of the School of Medicine the greatest flexibility in appointing a holder of the chair, without restriction to specialty and in the area of greatest need in transplant medicine;

RESOLVED, the Nabi Professorship in Transplant Pharmacology is changed to the Nabi Biopharmaceuticals Professorship in Transplantation, to be held in the Department of Surgery in the School of Medicine. In so doing, the Board once again thanks Nabi Biopharmaceuticals for its generosity and support.

The Board recessed at 4:55 p.m.

REPORT BY THE PRESIDENTGIFTS AND GRANTS
---------------------------------------

The Board reconvened at 8:00 a.m., in Open Session, on Saturday, April 8, 2006, in the Board Room of the Rotunda, to hear the President’s customary report. All Members present the day before, save Mr. Pippin, were present.

The President reported first on the General Assembly session this winter. The management agreements, which the University and other institutions negotiated, were approved by both houses of the Legislature in two separate bills. They now must be signed by the Governor.

The bill which covers the Commonwealth’s budget is still in debate, however, although there may be a resolution of the matter in the General Assembly next week. He commented that in spite of the impasse, he believes the outcome will be positive because both houses of the Legislature are committed to higher education.

The President said that preliminary figures for March indicate a Campaign cash flow of $16.5million, which would put the year-to-date (that is, since July 1, 2005) total at about $177million. Total Campaign giving through February stands at $836.6million; with the March preliminary figures added to that, Campaign giving to date is just over $854million.

These figures do not include the recent Ivy Foundation gift of $45million, nor another $5million gift to the Darden School and the Curry School. If these are added in, the total Campaign figure is at $900million.

The President reported that the Campaign case statement is being perfected and that alumni advice and support continues to be sought. He said that since his last report to the Board, there have been 14 meetings in 14 different cities across the country, with 608 people attending. In April and early May there will be 11 events in 10 cities on the East Coast, in Texas, and in the Midwest.

The President told the Board that through the end of February, philanthropic giving to the University and its related foundations was $160.6million, an increase of $30.4million, or 23%, above the previous fiscal year. Athletics, the McIntire School, the College at Wise, Arts & Sciences and the Law School all report substantial increases in giving.

Among significant gifts recorded since the last meeting of the Board of Visitors are $4,500,000 from the Claude Moore Charitable Foundation for the projected Medical Education and Nursing School buildings; $2,500,000 in pledge payments to the Athletics Department and The University of Virginia’s College at Wise for the expansion of Scott Stadium and the Wise football stadium; a $1,000,742.01 pledge payment from Mr. Gregory L. Curl to the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; a $1,000,000 pledge payment from the Smithfield-Luter Foundation to the Smithfield-Luter Palmer Weber Fund, which benefits the Cancer Center; and a gift of $1,000,000 from the Diane and David Heller Charitable Foundation to the Medical School, to be used in Dr. Ladislau Steiner’s research.

Mr. Daniel M. Meyers has pledged $8,736,218.23 to the Curry School Foundation for the Capital Campaign Fund. The Claude Moore Charitable Foundation has pledged $5,000,000 to the School of Nursing for the Building Addition.

On motion, the Board voted to accept the Gifts and Grants Report.

FINAL SESSIONADOPTION OF THE GOVERNOR’S STATEMENT ON EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AS UNIVERSITY POLICY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board adopted the following resolutions:

RESOLVED that the following statement of the Governor of Virginia identified as Executive Order Number One (2006) is adopted as an official policy of the University of Virginia:

Executive Order Number One (2006)

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Governor, I hereby declare that it is the firm and unwavering policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia to assure equal opportunity in all facets of state government.

This policy specifically prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, age, political affiliation, or against otherwise qualified persons with disabilities. The policy permits appropriate employment preferences for veterans and specifically prohibits discrimination against veterans.

State appointing authorities and other management principals are hereby directed to take affirmative measures, as determined by the Director of the Department of Human Resource Management, to emphasize the recruitment of qualified minorities, women, disabled persons, and older Virginians to serve at all levels of state government. This directive does not permit or require the lowering of bona fide job requirements, performance standards, or qualifications to give preference to any state employee or applicant for state employment.

Allegations of violations of this policy shall be brought to the attention of the Office of Equal Employment Services of the Department of Human Resource Management. No state appointing authority, other management principal, or supervisor shall take retaliatory actions against persons making such allegations.

Any state employee found in violation of this policy shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.

The Secretary of Administration is directed to review annually state procurement, employment, and other relevant policies for compliance with the non-discrimination mandate contained herein, and shall report to the Governor his or her findings together with such recommendations as he or she deems appropriate. The Director of the Department of Human Resource Management shall assist in this review.

This Executive Order supersedes and rescinds Executive Order Number One (2002), Equal Opportunity, issued by Governor Mark R. Warner, on January 12, 2002, and revised on December 16, 2005.

This Executive Order shall become effective upon its signing and shall remain in full force and effect until amended or rescinded by further executive order.

Given under my hand and under the Seal of the Commonwealth of Virginia this 14th day of January, 2006.

APPROVAL OF INCREASE IN FACULTY AND STAFF HOUSING RATES FOR 2006-2007
---------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Properties

Utilites Furnished

Rents 2005-06 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Prop. Rents 2006-07 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T

$609

$26

4.27%

$635

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$741

$31

4.18%

$772

Houses (3BR) (16)(UF)

WS,C,T

$1,080

$33

3.06%

$1,113

E, G

Townhouses (3BR)(5)(UF)

WS,C,T

$1,080

$0

$1,080

E, G

Farmhouse Apt. 1 (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$680

$29

4.26%

$709

Farmhouse Apt. 2 (3 BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,T

$692

$29

4.19%

$721

Farmhouse Apt. 3 (1 BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$680

$29

4.26%

$709

Farmhouse Apt. 4 (2 BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$760

$32

4.21%

$792

Sundry

Vyssotsky Cottage (3BR)(UF)

WS,T, AC

$862

$38

4.41%

$900

E,G

McGuffey Cottage (Eff)(UF)

WS,E,V,T,AC,D

$539

$9

1.67%

$548

Upper Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC,D

$730

$13

1.78%

$743

Lower Mews (1BR)(F)

WS,E,HP,C,T,AC,D

$636

$27

4.25%

$663

Monroe Hill Range (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$811

$31

3.82%

$842

Brown College Apts. (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$715

$8

1.12%

$723

Hereford Coll. Apts. (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$828

$8

0.97%

$836

Hereford Coll.Princ.Res. (3BR)(UF)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D,C

$1,030

$19

1.84%

$1,049

102 Cresap Fac. Apt. (1BR)(F)

WS,E,G,T,HVAC,V,D,C

$769

$25

3.25%

$794

Hedge House (2BR)(F)

WS,C,T,AC

$799

$33

4.13%

$832

E,G

Orchard House (5RMS)(F)

WS,E,G,C,T,AC

$378

$20

5.29%

$398

118 Oakhurst, Upper (2BR)(UF)

WS,G,C, AC

$703

$30

4.27%

$733

E,T

118 Oakhurst, Lower (2BR)(UF)

WS,G,C,AC

$703

$30

4.27%

$733

E,T

409 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$998

$45

4.51%

$1,043

T

411 Valley Road, (2BR)(F)

WS,E,G,C,AC

$998

$45

4.51%

$1,043

T

503 Valley Road, (1BR)(UF)

C

$563

$24

4.26%

$587

WS,E,G,T

424 MLLH, (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$742

$26

3.50%

$768

423 MLLH, (2BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$858

$30

3.50%

$888

004 Lewis, (1BR)(UF)

WS,E,G,C,HVAC,V,D

$742

$26

3.50%

$768

Properties

Utilites Furnished

Rents 2005-06 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Prop. Rents 2006-07 Per Month

Utilities Paid By Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$568

$23

4.05%

$591

E

Garage Apt.(2BR)(UF)

WS,C,T

$826

$37

4.48%

$863

E,G

Cash House (3BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,061

$45

4.24%

$1,106

E,G

Middleton House (4BR)(UF)

WS,C,T,AC

$1,241

$52

4.19%

$1,293

E,G

E & G Properties

Montebello (3BR/Garage)

WS,E,G,AC

$784

$31

3.95%

$815

C,T

Big Morea (4BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$1,090

$40

3.67%

$1,130

C

Little Morea (2BR)

WS,E,G,AC,T

$834

$31

3.72%

$865

C

Sunnyside (4BR)

WS,E,O,AC

$1,699

$53

3.12%

$1,752

C

Monroe Hill House (4BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V,D

$1,009

$38

3.77%

$1,047

C

Pavilion I (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$921

$35

3.80%

$956

C

Pavilion II (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$686

$28

4.08%

$714

C

Pavilion III (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$921

$35

3.80%

$956

C

Pavilion IV (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$686

$28

4.08%

$714

C

Pavilion V (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$921

$35

3.80%

$956

C

Pavilion VI (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$921

$35

3.80%

$956

C

Pavilion VIII Upper (3BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$600

$26

4.33%

$626

C

Pavilion VIII Lower (1BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$313

$13

4.15%

$326

C

Pavilion IX (5BR)

WS,E,HVAC,T,V

$921

$35

3.80%

$956

C

Pavilion X (5BR)

WS,E,HP,T,V

$686

$28

4.08%

$714

C

Blandy Farm

Curator's House

WS

$0

$0

0.00%

$0

E,O

Green Farm House

WS

$65

$0

0.00%

$65

E,O

Notes:

Italicized 2005-06 rents indicate that a $20 credit was granted for non-availability of high speed data service. In total six properties (five Piedmont Townhouses and the Monroe Hill Range) were brought to market this budget year. The (F) designates properties that are furnished. The (UF) designates properties that are unfurnished. Utility abbreviations are as follows: WS (water, sewer), E (electric), G (gas), O (oil), HP (heating plant), HVAC (heating, ventilating, and air conditioning), AC (window air conditioning), C (cable TV), V (voice), T (trash), and D (data).

RESOLVED that the faculty and staff housing rates are approved as indicated, effective July 1, 2006. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer is authorized to increase the rates to market level when a property is vacated.

APPROVAL TO ESTABLISH THE MELLON PROSTATE CANCER RESEARCH FUND WITH AN INVESTMENT OF $8 MILLION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Mellon Prostate Cancer Research Institute of the School of Medicine requests the establishment of a quasi-endowment fund for the benefit of the Mellon Prostate Cancer Research Institute; and

WHEREAS, the quasi-endowment will be funded with funds received from the bequest of Paul Mellon;

RESOLVED that the establishment of the Mellon Prostate Cancer Research Fund, a quasi-endowment fund in the initial amount of $8 million is approved.

APPROVAL OF HISTORICAL MARKER AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CEMETERY
--------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors approves the placement of a state historical marker, commemorating the University Cemetery, on University property on Alderman Road, adjacent to the Cemetery.

APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PRESIDENTS’ PLOT AT THE UNIVERSITY CEMETERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Cemetery Committee of the University recommends the establishment of a Presidents’ Plot at the University Cemetery;

RESOLVED, a plot of twelve graves, to accommodate a possible twenty-four burials, at the University Cemetery be set aside for the future burials of presidents of the University.

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH CEMETERY AND COLUMBARIUM POLICIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Cemetery Committee of the University from time to time may propose new or revised policies regarding the University Cemetery and the Columbarium; and

WHEREAS, such policies and regulations are administrative in nature;

RESOLVED, the President may approve and establish policies regarding the Cemetery and the Columbarium, and may amend or rescind any previously established policies and regulations.

APPROVAL OF CONTRACT RATES FOR DINING SERVICES FOR 2006-2007 FOR THE ACADEMIC DIVISION AND THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ACADEMIC DIVISION

Actual 2005-2006

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2006-2007

Regular Meal Plans (1,2)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$3,100

$170

5.5%

$3,270

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

3,100

170

5.5%

3,270

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

3,100

170

5.5%

3,270

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $820 Plus Dollars

3,100

170

5.5%

3,270

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,640

160

6.1%

2,800

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,770

90

5.1%

1,860

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,540

80

5.2%

1,620

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,170

60

5.1%

1,230

Residential College/Language House Meal Plans (1,2,3)

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$3,210

$170

5.3%

$3,380

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $820 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,760

150

5.4%

2,910

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,880

90

4.8%

1,970

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,650

80

4.8%

1,730

50 Meals per semester w/ $390 Plus Dollars

1,280

60

4.7%

1,340

Actual 2005-2006

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2006-2007

Athletic Meal Plans

Unlimited Entry w/ $150 Plus Dollars

$3,210

$170

5.3%

$3,380

15 Meals per week w/ $400 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

13 Meals per week w/ $500 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

10 Meals per week (first year) w/ $820 Plus Dollars

3,210

170

5.3%

3,380

10 Meals per week (upperclass) w/ $350 Plus Dollars

2,760

150

5.4%

2,910

100 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,880

90

4.8%

1,970

80 Meals per semester w/ $350 Plus Dollars

1,650

80

4.8%

1,730

Other

Law School Dining Spending Account (4)

$200

$0

$200

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA’S COLLEGE AT WISE

Actual 2005-2006

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 2006-2007

19 Meal Plan

$2,712

$136

5.0%

$2,848

12 Meal Plan

2,438

122

5.0%

2,560

APPROVAL OF AN INCREASE IN THE AMOUNT OF SHORT-TERM LOANS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE JOHN PAUL JONES ARENA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors has approved a short-term loan, or loans, of up to $20 million for a term of up to four years to provide short-term financing for the John Paul Jones Arena Project in anticipation of pledged gift receipts; and

WHEREAS, an increase of $5 million in short-term loans is required to provide sufficient short-term financing for a similar term for the John Paul Jones Arena Project in anticipation of pledged gift receipts;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves a $5 million increase in the amount of a short-term loan, or loans, totaling no more than $25 million in aggregate, for a term of up to four years for the purpose of providing short-term financing for the John Paul Jones Arena Project to be used in anticipation of pledged gift receipts associated with this project.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY’S DEBT POLICY AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University employs a Debt Portfolio Management Program to provide external financing for its capital projects; and

WHEREAS, the Board has approved a policy to limit variable-rate debt to no more than 40 percent of the University’s total debt financing;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the University’s Debt Policy, enumerated in Attachment A; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Visitors approves the University’s Interest Rate Risk Management Policy, enumerated in Attachment B.

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY’S CAPITAL AND OPERATING RESERVES POLICY
------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the University currently has a variety of capital and operating reserve policies that differ among individual departments and schools; and

WHEREAS, it is reasonable to believe that the overall financial strength of the University can be enhanced by more formalized operating and capital reserve policies, especially for some of the University’s business operations; and

WHEREAS, the University wishes to ensure, from a stewardship standpoint, that there is not a large deferred maintenance requirement for the institution and that the operations for each program are financially able to withstand a significant downturn in the generation of revenues;

RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors approves the University’s Capital and Operating Reserves Policy as follows: Financially self-sufficient programs will have these reserve requirements: (a) operating reserves equivalent to three months of operating expenses and (b) annual capital expenditures or contributions to capital reserves of at least 1.5 percent of replacement value of buildings and equipment. The exact percentage should be based on the capital requirements unique to the program. The Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer may approve alternative reserve policies where appropriate; and

RESOLVED FURTHER that institution-wide programs, such as self-insurance programs and the capital funding program, will continue to have unique reserve requirements that best meet the individual program’s needs.

RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE TRANSFER OF ENDOWMENT FUNDS FROM THE UNIVERSITY TO THE JEFFERSON SCHOLARS FOUNDATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEREAS, the Macfarlane family established an endowed fellowship fund with the University, intending that it be matched by the Commonwealth of Virginia through the Virginia Graduate and Undergraduate Assistance Program; and

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth has not provided funding for the Program; and

WHEREAS, the Macfarlane family has established the Macfarlane Family Darden Jefferson Fellowship Fund with the Jefferson Scholars Foundation; and

WHEREAS, the Macfarlane family donors have requested that the University transfer the Macfarlane Family Fellowship funds held by the University to the Macfarlane Family Darden Jefferson Fellowship Fund;

RESOLVED that the Board authorizes transfer of the funds held in the Macfarlane Family Fellowship to the Macfarlane Family Darden Jefferson Fellowship Fund in the Jefferson Scholars Foundation.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT FINDINGS
-------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Findings for the period January 1, 2006, through February 28, 2006, as presented by the Director of Audits, is approved as recommended by the Audit & Compliance Committee.

FACULTY PERSONNEL ACTIONS ELECTIONSACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS (a) Election of Chairholders (b) Change of Title of Chairholder (c) Retirement of Chairholders PROMOTION CHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE PROMOTION OF DR. MARCIA MCDUFFIE SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS CHANGE IN THE SPECIAL SALARY ACTION OF MR. EVAN S. MARCUSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTS RE-APPOINTMENTS CHANGE IN THE TITLE OF THE RE-APPOINTMENT OF MS. LYNN M. MITCHELL RE-ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT E. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER RE-ELECTION OF MS. YOKE SAN L. REYNOLDS AS VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI ELECTION OF ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS EMERITI DEATHS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following person is promoted:

RESOLVED that the promotion of Dr. Marcia S. McDuffie from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Microbiology, effective November 15, 2005, as recorded in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 3, 2006, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

RESOLVED that the special salary action for Mr. Evan S. Marcus, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective January 16, 2006, at an annual salary of $123,000, as recorded in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 3, 2006, was changed to read as follows:

The following resignations were announced:

The following retirements were announced:

The following appointments were announced:

The following re-appointments were announced:

The President announced that the title of the re-appointment of Ms. Lynn M. Mitchell as Project Specialist, for one year, effective June 25, 2005, as shown in the Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Visitors dated February 3, 2006, be changed to read as follows:

RESOLVED that Dr. Robert E. Reynolds is re-elected Vice President and Chief Information Officer, for the period January 25, 2006, through June 30, 2006.

RESOLVED that Ms. Yoke San L. Reynolds is re-elected Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, for five years, effective May 25, 2006.

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected Professor Emeritus:

RESOLVED that the following persons were elected Associate Professor Emeritus:

The following deaths were announced:

THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA'S COLLEGE AT WISE ELECTION SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS RETIREMENT ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the following person was elected to the faculty:

RESOLVED that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:

The following retirement was announced:

RESOLVED that the following person was elected Professor Emeritus:

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 8:30 a.m. The Board then went to the groundbreaking for the new Nursing School Building on 15th Street, SW, after which Members toured the new John Paul Jones Arena, still under construction.

ADDENDUM TO THE OFFICIAL MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Meeting Date: April 8, 2006 CERTIFICATION OF EXECUTIVE MEETING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session – as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia – only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration in closed session.

RESOLUTIONS NOT REQUIRING ACTION BY THE FULL BOARD MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, FEBRUARY 23, 2006 (ATTACHMENT C) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE, APRIL 6, 2006 (ATTACHMENT D)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

ATTACHMENT A UNIVERSITY’S DEBT POLICYUniversity of Virginia Debt PolicyI. Overview Purpose Overview II. Scope and Objectives Purpose Scope Objectives III. Oversight PurposeIV. Debt Affordability and Capacity Purpose Debt Affordability Measures Debt Burden Percentage Debt Service Coverage Ratio Debt Capacity Measures Viability Ratio Debt Capitalization Percentage V. Financing Sources Purpose Tax-Exempt Debt Taxable Debt Commercial PaperUniversity-issued vs. State-issued debt Derivative Products Other Financing Sources VI. Portfolio Management of Debt PurposeVariable-Rate DebtRefinancing Outstanding DebtLiquidity Requirements Overall Exposure VII. Strategic Debt Allocation PurposeVIII. Central Loan Program Management Purpose De-linking External and Internal Debt StructuresBlended Interest Rate IX. Approval Process Purpose
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

I. Overview

II. Scope and Objectives

III. Oversight

IV. Debt Affordability and Capacity

V. Financing Sources

VI. Portfolio Management of Debt

VII. Strategic Debt Allocation

VIII. Central Loan Program Management

IX. Approval Process

University’s Mission

Strategic Plan

Capital Plan/6-Year Plans

Debt Policy

(Underlying Fixed Rate Bonds)

(Underlying Variable Rate Bonds)

LOW Interest rate risk HIGH

Traditional Fixed Rate Bonds NO TAX RISK

Synthetic fixed (Floating rate bonds swapped to fixed)

Synthetic floating (Fixed rate bonds swapped to floating)

Variable Rate Demand Obligations TAX RISK

No UVa Liquidity Requirement Yes

1\. Articulate the role of the University’s Debt Policy within the strategic planning process.

In support of its mission, the University of Virginia maintains a long-term strategic plan. The strategic plan establishes University-wide priorities as well as University-wide and divisional programmatic objectives. The University develops a capital plan to support these priorities and objectives.

The University’s use of debt plays a critical role in ensuring adequate funding for the capital plan as well as providing a cost-effective source of funding for other purposes. By linking the objectives of its Debt Policy to its strategic objectives, the University ultimately increases the likelihood of achieving its mission. The Debt Policy is intended to be a “living” document that will evolve over time to meet the changing needs of the University.

The Debt Policy covers all forms of debt including long-term, short-term, fixed-rate, and variable-rate debt. It also covers other forms of financing including both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet structures, such as leases, and other structured products used with the intent of funding capital projects.

The use of derivatives is considered when managing the debt portfolio and structuring transactions. Conditions guiding the use of derivatives are addressed in a separate Interest Rate Risk Management Policy.

The objectives of this policy are to:

The Debt Policy formalizes the link between the University’s Strategic Plan and the issuance of debt. Debt is a limited resource that must be managed strategically in order to best support University priorities.

The policy establishes a control framework to ensure that appropriate discipline is in place regarding capital rationing, reporting requirements, debt portfolio composition, debt servicing, and debt authorization. It establishes guidelines to ensure that existing and proposed debt issues are consistent with financial resources to maintain an optimal amount of leverage, a strong financial profile, and a strategically optimal credit rating.

Under this policy, debt is being managed to achieve the following goals:

The University may use debt to accomplish critical priorities by more prudently using debt financing to accelerate the initiation or completion of certain projects, where appropriate. As part of its review of each project, the University evaluates all funding sources to determine the optimal funding structure to achieve the lowest cost of capital.

The Office of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (“VP & CFO”) is responsible for implementing this policy and for all debt financing activities of the University. The policy and any subsequent, material changes to the policy are approved by the University’s Board of Visitors (“BOV”). The approved policy provides the framework under which debt management decisions are made.

The exposure limits listed in the policy are monitored on a regular basis by the Office of the VP & CFO. The office of the VP & CFO reports regularly to the Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer (“EVP & COO”) and the BOV on the University’s debt position and plans.

In assessing its current debt levels, and when planning for additional debt, the University takes into account both its debt affordability and debt capacity. Debt affordability focuses on the University’s ability to service its debt through its operating budget and identified revenue streams and is driven by strength in income and cash flows. Debt capacity focuses on the University’s financial leverage in terms of debt funding as a percentage of the University’s total capital.

The University considers many factors in assessing its debt affordability and debt capacity including its strategic plan, market position, alternative sources of funding, and relationship with the Commonwealth. The University uses four key ratios to provide a quantitative assessment of debt affordability and debt capacity.

This ratio measures the University’s debt service burden as a percentage of total university expenses. The target for this ratio is intended to maintain the University’s long-term operating flexibility to finance existing requirements and new initiatives.

ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES

The measure is based on aggregate operating expenses as opposed to operating revenues because expenses typically are more stable (e.g., revenues may be subject to one-time operating gifts, investment return fluctuations, variability of Commonwealth funding, etc.) and better reflect the operating base of the University. This ratio is adjusted to reflect any non-amortizing or non-traditional debt structures that could result in significant single year fluctuations including the effect of debt refundings.

This ratio measures the University’s ability to cover debt service requirements with revenues available for operations. The target established is intended to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet debt service requirements and that debt service does not consume too large a portion of income.

OPERATING GAIN/(LOSS) + NON-OPERATING REVENUE + DEPRECIATION >3x ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE

This ratio is adjusted to reflect any non-amortizing or non-traditional debt structures that could result in significant single year fluctuations including the effect of debt refundings.

This ratio indicates one of the most basic determinants of financial health by measuring the availability of liquid and expendable net assets to aggregate debt. The ratio measures the medium- to long-term health of the University’s balance sheet and debt capacity and is a critical consideration of universities with the highest credit quality.

Many factors influence the viability ratio, affecting both the assets (e.g., investment performance, philanthropy) and liabilities (e.g., timing of bond issues), and therefore the ratio is best examined in the context of changing market conditions so that it accurately reflects relative financial strength.

UNRESTRICTED NET ASSETS +RESTRICTED EXPENDABLE NET ASSETS >2.5x AGGREGATE DEBT

This ratio measures what percentage of University capital comes from debt. A university that relies too heavily on debt capital may risk being over-leveraged and potentially reduce its access to capital markets. Conversely, a university that does not strategically utilize debt as a source of capital may not be optimizing its funding mix, thereby sacrificing access to low-cost funding to invest in mission objectives.

AGGREGATE DEBT TOTAL NET ASSETS + AGGREGATE DEBT < 20%

Use of Ratios in Managing University Credit Ratings

Both the Viability and Debt Capitalization Ratios include any component unit (University-related Foundation) balances as disclosed in the University’s financial statements.

The ratios and limits are not intended to track a specific rating, but rather to help the University maintain a competitive financial profile, funding for facilities needs and reserves, and compliance with Commonwealth debt service to budget guidelines.

The Debt Policy is shared with external credit analysts and other parties in order to provide them with background on the University’s philosophy on debt and management’s assessment of debt capacity and affordability.

The University recognizes that numerous types of financing structures and funding sources are available, each with specific benefits, risks, and costs. All potential funding sources are reviewed by management within the context of the Debt Policy and the overall portfolio to ensure that any financial product or structure is consistent with the University’s objectives. Regardless of the financing structure(s) being utilized, a due diligence review must be performed for each transaction, including (i) a quantification of potential risks and benefits, and (ii) an analysis of the impact on University creditworthiness and debt affordability and capacity.

The University recognizes that tax-exempt debt is a significant component of the University’s capitalization due in part to its substantial cost benefits; therefore, tax-exempt debt is managed as a portfolio of obligations designed to meet long-term financial objectives rather than as a series of discrete financings tied to specific projects. The University manages the debt portfolio to maximize its utilization of tax-exempt debt relative to taxable debt whenever possible. In all circumstances, however, individual projects continue to be identified and tracked to ensure compliance with all tax and reimbursement regulations.

For tax-exempt debt, the University considers maximizing the external maturity of any tax-exempt bond issuance, subject to prevailing market conditions and opportunities and other considerations, including applicable regulations.

In instances where certain of the University’s capital projects do not qualify for tax-exempt debt, the use of taxable debt may be considered. The taxable debt market offers certain advantages in terms of liquidity and marketing efficiency; such advantages will be considered when evaluating the costs and benefits of a taxable debt issuance.

Commercial paper provides the University with interim financing for projects in anticipation of philanthropy or planned issuance of long-term debt. The use of commercial paper also provides greater flexibility on the timing and structuring of individual bond transactions. This flexibility also makes commercial paper appropriate for financing equipment and short-term operating needs. The University recognizes that the amount of commercial paper is limited by the Debt Policy ratios, the University’s variable-rate debt allocation limit, and the University’s available liquidity support.

In determining the most cost effective means of issuing debt, the University evaluates the merits of issuing debt directly vs. issuing debt through the State (e.g., under Article X, Section 9 of the State Constitution) or a State-issuing entity (e.g., The Virginia College Building Authority.)

On a regular basis, the University performs a cost-benefit analysis between these two options and takes into consideration the comparative funding costs, flexibility in market timing, and bond ratings of each alternative. The University also takes into consideration the future administrative flexibility of each issue such as the ability to call and/or refund issues at a later date, as well as the administrative flexibility to structure and manage the debt in a manner that the University believes to be appropriate.

Management recognizes that derivative products may enable more opportunistic and flexible management of the debt portfolio. Derivative products, including interest rate swaps and locks, may be employed primarily to manage or hedge the University’s interest rate exposure. The University utilizes a framework to evaluate potential derivative instruments by considering (i) its current variable-rate debt allocation, (ii) existing market and interest rate conditions, (iii) the impact on future financing flexibility, and (iv) the compensation for assuming risks or the costs for eliminating certain risks and exposure. Risks include, but are not limited to, tax risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, basis risk, and any other potential risks either imposed or removed through the execution of any transaction.

The University analyzes and quantifies the cost/benefit of any derivative instrument relative to achieving desirable long-term capital structure objectives. Under no circumstances will a derivative transaction be utilized that is not understood fully by management or that imposes inappropriate risk on the University. In addition, management discloses the impact of any derivative product on the University’s financial statements per GASB requirements and includes their effects in calculating the Debt Policy ratios.

Given limited debt capacity and substantial capital needs, opportunities for alternative and non-traditional transaction structures may be considered, including off-balance sheet financings. The University recognizes these types of transactions often can be more expensive than traditional University debt structures; therefore, the benefits of any potential transaction must outweigh any potential costs.

All structures can be considered only when the economic benefit and the likely impact on the University’s debt capacity and credit have been determined. Specifically, for any third-party or developer-based financing, management ensures the full credit impact of the structure is evaluated and quantified.

The University considers its debt portfolio holistically; that is, it optimizes the portfolio of debt for the entire University rather than on a project-by-project basis while taking into account the University’s cash and investment portfolio. Therefore, management makes decisions regarding project prioritization, debt portfolio optimization, and financing structures within the context of the overall needs and circumstances of the University.

The University recognizes that a degree of exposure to variable interest rates within the University’s debt portfolio is desirable in order to:

Management monitors overall interest rate exposure, analyzes and quantifies potential risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and rollover risks, and coordinates appropriate fixed/variable allocation strategies. The portfolio allocation to variable-rate debt may be managed or adjusted through (i) the issuance or redemption of debt in the conventional debt market (e.g., new issues and refundings) and (ii) the use of interest rate derivative products including swaps.

The amount of variable-rate debt outstanding (adjusted for any derivatives) shall not exceed 40 percent of the University’s outstanding debt. This limit is based on the University’s desire to (i) limit annual variances in its interest payments, (ii) provide sufficient structuring flexibility to management, (iii) keep the University’s variable-rate allocation within acceptable external parameters, and (iv) utilize variable-rate debt (including derivatives) to optimize debt portfolio allocation and minimize costs.

VARIABLE-RATE DEBT (INCLUDING SYNTHETIC) TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING < 40%

The University monitors its debt portfolio on a continual basis to assure portfolio management objectives are being met and to identify opportunities to lower its cost of funding, primarily through refinancing outstanding debt.

The University monitors the prices and yields of its outstanding debt and attempts to identify potential refunding candidates by examining refunding rates and calculating the net present value of any refunding savings after taking into account all transaction costs. The University may choose to pursue refundings for economic and/or legal reasons.

The University’s portfolio of variable-rate debt and commercial paper require liquidity support in the event of the bonds or paper being put back to the University by investors. Generally, the University can purchase liquidity support externally from a bank in the form of a standby bond purchase agreement or line of credit. In addition, the University can also use its own capital in lieu of or to supplement external facilities. Alternatively, it can utilize variable-rate structures that do not require liquidity support (e.g., auction-rate products).

Just as the University manages its debt on a portfolio basis, it also manages its liquidity needs by considering its entire asset and debt portfolio, rather than solely on an issue-specific basis. This approach permits institution-wide evaluation of desired liquidity requirements and exposure, minimizes administrative burden, and reduces total liquidity costs.

A balanced approach is used to provide liquidity support to enhance credit for variable-rate debt through a combination of external bank liquidity, self-liquidity, auction market, or derivative structures. Using a variety of approaches limits dependence on an individual type or source of credit; it also allows for exposure to different types of investors. The University must balance liquidity requirements with its investment objectives and its cost and renewal risk of third-party liquidity providers.

Further, a portfolio-approach to liquidity can enhance investment flexibility, reduce administrative requirements, lower total interest costs, and reduce the need for external bank liquidity.

The University recognizes that it may be exposed to interest rate, third-party credit, and other potential risks in areas other than direct University debt (e.g., off-balance sheet transactions, counterparty exposure in the investment portfolio, etc.) and, therefore, exposures are considered on a comprehensive University-wide basis.

Recognizing that financial resources are not sufficient to fund all capital projects, management must allocate debt strategically, continuing to explore alternate sources of funding for projects. External support, philanthropy, and direct Commonwealth investment remain critical to the University’s facilities investment plan.

Management allocates the use of debt financing internally within the University to reflect the prioritization of debt resources among all uses, including plant and equipment financing, academic projects, and projects with trans-institutional impact. Generally, the University favors debt financing for those projects critical to the attainment of its strategic goals and those projects with identified revenue streams for the repayment of debt service and incremental operating costs. Federal research projects receive priority consideration for external debt financing because the University receives partial reimbursement of operating expenses (including the interest component of applicable external debt service) of research facilities. Patient care investments that have acceptable financial and programmatic returns also receive priority.

Each capital project is analyzed at its inception to ensure that capital is used in the most effective manner and in the best interests of the University. There is an initial institutional review of each project, prior to its inclusion in the state’s six-year plan, to determine if debt leveraging would be desirable even if not requested by the project sponsor. As part of this initial institutional review, the University also will assess, based on the project’s business plan, the sufficiency of revenues to support any internal loans. If the University determines that collateral is necessary, it may require the entity to segregate unrestricted funds for this purpose.

Each division is responsible for the repayment of all funds borrowed from the central loan program, plus interest and certain fees established in the University’s internal lending policies, regardless of the internal or external source of funds.

Loan structures with standard financial terms are offered to divisional borrowers. The University may provide for flexible financing terms in order to accommodate individual divisions if it is determined to be in the University’s best interest. The Office of the VP & CFO clearly articulates the policies and procedures for the assumption and repayment of debt to all borrowers. The Director of Treasury Operations is the University’s loan officer for divisional borrowers.

The University has adopted a central loan program under which it provides funding for projects across schools and divisions (including the Health System) under the guidance of the VP & CFO. In this regard, the University has established a pool of financing resources, including debt, for a central source of capital.

The benefits of this program include:

The central loan program can access funds from a variety of sources to originate loans to divisions. The University manages its funding sources on a portfolio basis, and therefore payments from divisions are not tied directly to a particular source of funds. (Note: Due to federal tax and reimbursement requirements, actual debt service for certain projects still must be tracked.)

The University charges a blended interest rate to its divisions based on its cost of funding. In some instances, at the discretion of the VP & CFO, the type and useful life of the project may affect the appropriate term and interest rate of any loan.

This blended interest rate may change periodically to reflect changes in the University’s average aggregate expected long-term cost of borrowing. The blended interest rate may also include a reserve for interest rate stabilization purposes.

In addition to charging borrowers interest, the central loan program collects amounts to pay for costs of administering the debt portfolio. These costs are clearly articulated to divisions, and are passed on to borrowers in the form of a rate surcharge and an upfront fee for loan origination. These charges may be reviewed and adjusted from time to time.

All debt issued by the University must be authorized through a BOV resolution. If tax-exempt bonds are to be issued, the BOV also approves an Intent to Issue Resolution. Additionally, the BOV establishes financing parameters for each debt issuance.

The University issues debt, in its own behalf, under Chapter 3 of Title 23 of the Virginia Code or non-State Tax Supported Debt under the State’s Restructured Higher Education Financial and Administrative Operations Act of 2005, Chapter 4.10 of Title 23 (the “Restructuring Act”). For debt issued under Chapter 3 of Title 23, the University complies with all statutory requirements for State and BOV approval. For debt issued under the Restructuring Act, the University complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements including notifying the State Treasurer of each such bond issuance. For debt issued under the Restructuring Act, the BOV delegates the authority to approve the pricing of such debt to the VP & CFO with the Chair of the Finance Committee or such other BOV member as may be designated by the Rector. Such pricing must be within the financing parameters established for the debt by the BOV (or the Executive Committee as authorized by Virginia Code § 23-75.)

When the University participates in bond programs that are administered by the State, including State tax-supported debt, such bonds are issued by the State Treasurer, who also possesses the authority to price such bonds.

ATTACHMENT BUNIVERSITY’S RISK MANAGEMENT POLICYUniversity of Virginia Interest Rate Risk Management Policy I. Overview Purpose Overview II. Scope and Objectives Purpose Scope Objectives III. Oversight Purpose IV. Derivative Use Guidelines Purpose V. Allowable Derivative Instruments PurposeVI. Policy Controls PurposeOperating ControlsExposure ControlsInterest Rate Risk Management Policy Appendix AOPERATING CONTROLSInterest Rate Risk Management Policy Appendix BEXPOSURE CONTROLS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table of Contents

I. Overview

II. Scope and Objectives

III. Oversight

IV. Derivative Use Guidelines

V. Allowable Derivative Instruments

VI. Policy Controls

Appendix A – Operating Controls

Appendix B – Exposure Controls

The University maintains a Debt Policy which provides guidelines on the authorization and management of debt. The University manages its debt portfolio on a consolidated basis and makes debt management decisions to achieve the lowest cost of debt capital and maximize its portfolio objectives. The use of derivatives can play a key role in managing the University’s debt portfolio.

In certain circumstances, derivatives are an effective way for the University to adjust its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and manage interest rate exposures. Derivatives may also be an effective way to manage liquidity risks. The University’s philosophy is to use derivatives strategically to achieve asset and liability portfolio objectives and hedge existing exposures. Derivatives will not be used to create leverage or to speculate on the movement of interest rates.

The Interest Rate Risk Management Policy applies to any derivatives used for the purpose of hedging interest rate exposures. This policy does not apply to derivatives used by the University of Virginia Investment Management Company in its management of the University’s endowment and assets or any University-related foundations.

Additionally, any decisions made regarding the use of derivatives must take into consideration the resulting impact under the University’s Debt Policy.

This policy is intended to:

The University views derivatives as a tool to achieve its asset and liability management objectives. As a result, it is the University’s philosophy to use derivatives strategically in support of this cause. It is also the University’s philosophy to not use derivatives to create leverage or speculate on interest rate movements. The University recognizes that the prudent and selective use of derivatives may help it to lower its cost of debt capital and manage its interest rate exposure.

This policy provides guidelines on the use of derivatives including the circumstances under which they may be used and the factors that are considered in deciding whether to usethem. Derivatives may be used to achieve the following objectives:

This policy also outlines framework to ensure that an appropriate discipline is in place regarding the use of derivitatives. Controls exist to address both operational risks and exposure risks.

The Office of the Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (“VP & CFO”) is responsible for implementing this policy and for all interest rate risk management activities of the University. The policy and any subsequent material changes to the policy are approved by the University’s Board of Visitors (“BOV”).

The Office of the VP & CFO provides oversight and monitors all derivative transactions and, at least annually, reports to the Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer and the BOV on the University’s outstanding derivatives.

The University may use derivatives to achieve the lowest possible cost of debt funding, manage its exposure to interest rate volatility, and/or match the timing and nature of cash flows associated with its assets and liabilities. The University may accomplish this by hedging the interest rate volatility of projected debt issuances or by using derivatives to adjust its exposure to floating interest rates.

To determine its portfolio exposure, the University looks at the composition of its outstanding assets and liabilities (adjusted for any hedges) and the change in this composition over a predetermined planning horizon. Taking into account the potential for future uncertainty, the University determines what, if any, action should be taken to keep its portfolio exposure at desirable levels over this period.

In determining when to hedge, the University monitors its interest rate exposure, the capital markets, and its future funding and liquidity requirements. Special attention is paid to the relative level of interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, and signals of interest rate increases or decreases from the Federal Reserve.

The University analyzes and quantifies the cost/benefit of any derivative instrument relative to achieving desirable long-term capital structure objectives. Before entering into a derivative, the University evaluates its risks including, but not limited to: tax risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, basis risk, rollover risk, termination risk, counterparty risk, and amortization risk. The University also evaluates the impact the hedge will have on its debt portfolio at the inception of the hedge and over the planning period.

When evaluating its hedging options, the University generally prefers the lowest cost, most liquid, and most flexible hedging strategy available. In instances where nohedging strategy meets all these needs, the University prioritizes these requirements to decide on an optimal strategy.

At their inception, derivatives are chosen to closely matchthe exposures being hedged. As time passes, the University’s debt management objectives may change, and any decisions will be made with the best information available at that time regardless of hedges that may be in place. For instance, the University may use derivatives to hedge future interest rates associated with a fixed- rate bond issuance. If at the time of issuance it is deemed more beneficial to issue floating-rate bonds, then the University will not let its past hedging decisions constrain its current bond issuance decisions.

In addition, management discloses the impact of all derivatives on the University’s financial statements per GASB requirements and includes their effects in calculating the Debt Policy ratios.

The University recognizes that there are numerous derivatives of varying degrees of complexity. The University attempts to avoid structural complexity in its use of derivatives and believes the following instruments, used alone or in combination with each other, allow for sufficient flexibility to help the University meet its interest rate risk management objectives.

The University has established both operating and exposure controls to address program risks.

When utilizing derivatives, it is important for operating controls to be in place to provide for adequate segregation of duties and management oversight. The University has controls addressing trade initiation, approval, confirmation, and accounting.

Appendix A to this policy lists the individuals who may enter into derivatives on behalf of the University. These individuals may not approve their own transactions, unless explicitly stated in Appendix A. Initiators may not confirm transactions with counterparties and may not enter the accounting related to a trade. These controls are in place to assure trades are fully disclosed, accounted for, and approved by appropriate parties.

Appendix A also contains a list of individuals with authority to approve transactions. In all instances, unless provided for in Appendix A, an approver may not also be the initiator for a specific transaction. Confirmations serve the purpose of confirming the details of a trade as understood by the University and its counterparty. Trade confirmations are done by an individual who does not have authority to either initiate or approve transactions.

Transactions are recorded for accounting purposes by an individual who is neither the initiator nor approver. This segregation helps to assure that trades are accounted for correctly and are recorded and valued correctly on an ongoing basis.

The University manages its derivatives exposure by looking at its derivatives portfolio independently and also in the context of its overall asset and liability portfolios. Prior to entering into a derivative transaction, the University will examine the impact of such trade independently and on the asset and liability portfolios as a whole.

Appendix B to the policy establishes limits related to counterparty credit ratings, and the maximum allowable percentage of floating rate debt.

Exposure controls are in place to limit the University’s exposure to the various market risks associated with derivatives.

In all instances, one person may not act as both authorized initiator and authorized approver for the same transaction.

The University may take steps to reduce its exposure to a counterparty by either (i) requiring the counterparty to post collateral in the full amount of the exposure (all the while abiding by the terms of any Credit Support Annex between the University and the counterparty), (ii) terminating all or a portion of its outstanding contract(s) with the counterparty, or (iii) requiring the counterparty to obtain swap insurance or provide another form of third-party security agreeable to the University.

In determining counterparty credit exposure, the University will also consider the counterparty’s credit exposure to other University related organizations (e.g., University of Virginia Investment Management Company.)

ATTACHMENT C RESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD FEBRUARY 23, 2006 MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD – FEBRUARY 23, 2006CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONSNEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFREAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSECONDARY RE-APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFFSTATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFFRESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFFPRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALSRENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the secondary reappointment to the clinical staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioner are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

ATTACHMENT DRESOLUTIONS FROM THE MEETING OF THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE APRIL 6, 2006 BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE – APRIL 6, 2006 APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE SOUTH LAWN PROJECT APPROVAL OF SCHEMATIC DESIGN FOR THE OBSERVATORY HILL RESIDENCE HALL (ALDERMAN ROAD RESIDENCE AREA REPLACEMENT HOUSING – PHASE 1)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 6, 2006, and prepared by Moore Ruble Yudell, of Santa Monica, California, for the South Lawn Project, is approved for further development and construction.

RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated April 6, 2006, and prepared by Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas of Norfolk for the Observatory Hill Residence Hall (Alderman Road Residence Area Replacement Housing – Phase 1), is approved for further development and construction. In doing so, the Committee wishes to consider further the proposed design of the student room windows in the building, and asks the Architect for the University and the architects for the project to study the matter and report back to the Committee.