<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes

## Board of Visitors minutes

**University of Virginia, Board of Visitors**\
**October 27, 2006**\
**University of Virginia Library**\
**Charlottesville, Virginia**\
**2009**

# Board of Visitors minutes

## Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## October 27, 2006 MEMORANDUM COMMENDING LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE; NAMING THE LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE HALL AT THE JOHN PAUL JONES ARENA AND LEONARD W. SANDRIDGE ROAD

***

**TO:**

The Board of Visitors:

* Thomas F. Farrell, II, Rector
* W. Heywood Fralin, Vice Rector
* Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.
* Daniel R. Abramson
* Lewis F. Payne
* A. Macdonald Caputo
* Don R. Pippin
* Alan A. Diamonstein
* Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.
* Susan Y. Dorsey
* Warren M. Thompson
* Georgia Willis Fauber
* E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr.
* G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.
* John O. Wynne
* Glynn D. Key
* Anne Elizabeth Mullen

**FROM:**

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

**SUBJECT:**

Amendment of the September 29-30 Board Minutes

In a poll, conducted by telephone on October 26, and 27, 2006, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia agreed to amend the resolution, “Commending Leonard W. Sandridge; Naming the Leonard W. Sandridge Portal at the John Paul Jones Arena and Sandridge Road,” adopted by the Board on September 30, 2006. The amended resolution changes “Leonard W. Sandridge Portal” to “Leonard W. Sandridge Hall,” and “Sandridge Road” to “Leonard W. Sandridge Road.”

The amended resolution reads as follows:

WHEREAS, Leonard W. Sandridge, First Citizen of Crozet, began his long and illustrious career at the University of Virginia in 1967 as an Internal Auditor; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge advanced through the ranks, always holding positions of responsibility, to his present job as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University, a title that describes only in small part his duties and can only hint at what he does for the University, day in and day out; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge has served four Presidents of the University, under two of them as a Vice President, and has been relied upon by all four of them for his probity, good sense, sound vision, and competence; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge is known and respected throughout the University for his hard work, his fair mindedness and his devotion above all to the good of the institution; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Sandridge is known, too, for his modesty and his reluctance to claim credit for the things he does; and

WHEREAS, admirers of Mr. Sandridge have banded together to make possible a naming in his honor, suggesting a portion of the John Paul Jones Arena;

RESOLVED, the Board of Visitors names the entrance to the John Paul Jones Arena, Leonard W. Sandridge Hall; further, the Board names the access road from the By-Pass to Massie Road, Leonard W. Sandridge Road; and

RESOLVED FURTHER, in so doing, the Board salutes the First Citizen of Crozet and joins the entire community in thanking him for all he has done, and continues to do, for the University of Virginia.
