<!-- llmformatted -->
# Board of Visitors minutes

## Board of Visitors minutes

### University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 5, 2007

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2009

## Board of Visitors minutes

### Public minutes

?? pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

## November 29, 2007 MEMORANDUM

### TO:

The Board of Visitors:

* W. Heywood Fralin, Rector
* John O. Wynne, Vice Rector
* Austin Ligon
* Daniel R. Abramson
* Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.
* A. Macdonald Caputo
* The Hon. Lewis F. Payne
* The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein
* Don R. Pippin
* Susan Y. Dorsey
* Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.
* Thomas F. Farrell, II
* Warren M. Thompson
* G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.
* E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.
* Glynn D. Key
* Carey J. Mignerey

### FROM:

Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

### SUBJECT:

Correction to the October 4-5, 2007 Minutes

The Minutes of the Board of Visitors meeting of October 4-5, 2007, should be corrected as follows: on page 7416, add the following resolution adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee on October 4th:

## APPROVAL OF PROJECT BUDGET MODIFICATION

Copies to:

* Mr. John T. Casteen, III
* Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

RESOLVED that after further study an increase to the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project of $2,343,000, bringing the total project budget to $4.7 million, is approved.

AGG:lah

Copies to: Mr. John T. Casteen, III Mr. Leonard W. Sandridge

## RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OCTOBER 5, 2007

| PAGE | DESCRIPTION |
|------|-------------|
| 7402 | Approving the Naming of Bavaro Hall |
| 7403 | Establishment of the Spencer P. Bass, M.D., Twenty- First Century Professorship in Family Medicine in the School of Medicine |
| 7403 | Establishment of the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Neurology in the School of Medicine |
| 7404 | Establishment of the Jean and Ronald Butcher, M.D., Eminent Scholars Professorship in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry in the School of Medicine |
| 7405 | Establishment of the Kathleen Miller Strunk Professorship in Nursing at The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7405 | Establishment of the Thurston H. Strunk Professorship in Nursing at The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7406 | Establishment of the Napoleon Hill Professorship in Business at The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7407 | Approval of the Minutes of the June 8, and July 27-28,2007, Meetings of the Board |
| 7407 | Correction to the Minutes of the Board of June 8, 2007 |
| 7408 | Resolution for Additions to the Agenda |
| 7409 | Resolution Accepting the Gift and Grants Report |
| 7411 | Demolition of West Garage and East End Substation |
| 7412 | Demolition of Faculty Houses at The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7412 | Approval of a Permanent Easement to Relocate Overhead Electrical Wires for the Valley Road Cul de Sac (Dominion Virginia Power) |
| 7413 | Approval of Permanent Easement for a Pedestrian Walkway to Connect Valley Road and Brandon Avenue (City of Charlottesville) |
| 7413 | Approval of the Board of Visitors Representatives to the Governing Board of University-Related Foundations |
| 7415 | Approval of Reset of Endowment Spending Rate |
| 7415 | Approval of Audit Charter |
| 7415 | Approval to Expand the Information Technology Engineering Building, Expand the Ivy Translational Research Center, and Construct a New Physical/Life Sciences Facility |
| 7416 | Approval of State Operating Budget Requests for the 2008-2010 Biennium for the Academic Division, the Medical Center, and The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7416 | Approval of Project Budget and Scope Modification and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt to Expand the Information Technology Engineering Building, Expand the Ivy Translational Research Center, and Construct a New Physical/Life Sciences Facility |
| 7417 | Approval of Project Budget Modification and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt: Stadium Waterproofing |
| 7417 | Approval of the College at Wise Stadium Debt Plan |
| 7418 | Approval of Cash Management Authority |
| 7418 | Approval of Property Acquisition and Intent to Issue Tax Exempt Debt |
| 7420 | Modification of Prior Approval for a Long Term Acute Care Hospital |
| 7423 | Approval of the 2008-2014 Six-Year Institutional Plans Pursuant to the Restructured Higher Education Financial And Administrative Operations Act |
| 7424 | Resolution Approving Report of the Special Committee on Foundations |
| 7424 | Resolution Supporting the University's Plan to Address Recommendations of the Review Panel on Mass Shootings at Virginia Tech |
| 7425 | Approval of the Summary of Audit Findings |
| 7425 | Grievance Resolution |
| 7425 | Batten School Resolution |
| 7426 | Faculty Personnel Actions |
| 7433 | Elections |
| 7437 | Actions Relating to Chairholders |
| 7438 | Promotions |
| 7445 | Special Salary Actions |
| 7448 | Resignations |
| 7448 | Retirements |
| 7449 | Appointments |
| 7450 | Re-Appointments |
| 7450 | Re-Election of Ms. Patricia M. Lampkin as Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer |
| 7450 | Election of Ms. Susan A. Carkeek as Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer |
| 7451 | Election of Professors Emeriti |
| 7451 | Election of Associate Professor Emeritus |
| 7451 | Deaths |
| 7452 | The University of Virginia's College at Wise |
| 7452 | Elections |
| 7453 | Promotions |
| 7453 | Special Salary Actions |

## Resolutions Adopted by the Buildings and Grounds Committee, October 4, 2007

* Approval of Architect Selection for the ITC Data Center Construction
* Approval of Engineer Selection for the Jordan Hall HVAC Replacement
* Approval of Project Budget Modification
* Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Klockner Expansion
* Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the UVA Baseball Stadium Expansion
* Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the ITC Data Center
* Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the Printing and Copying Services Addition
* Approval of Concept, Site, and Design Guidelines for the "Rugby Administrative Building" Renovations
* Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise Science Building
* Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise New Residence Hall
* Approval of Schematic Design for College at Wise New Dining Hall

## Meeting Date: October 4-5, 2007

The Board of Visitors, sitting in Open Session, unanimously adopted a resolution certifying that while meeting in Executive Session — as permitted by the relevant provisions of the Code of Virginia — only public business authorized by its motion and lawfully exempted from consideration were discussed in closed session.

The following resolutions were adopted in Board Committees and do not have to be approved by the full Board; they are enumerated below as a matter of record.

* RESOLVED that Osteen Phillips of Charlottesville is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the ITC Data Center at the University of Virginia.
* RESOLVED that RMF Engineering of Charlottesville is approved for the performance of architectural and engineering services for the Jordan Hall HVAC Replacement at the University of Virginia.
* RESOLVED that after further study an increase to the Scott Stadium Waterproofing project of $2,343,000, bringing the total project budget to $4.7 million, is approved.
* RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Klockner Expansion, are approved; and
* RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.
* RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Baseball Stadium Expansion, are approved; and
* RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.
* RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the ITC Data Center, on Old Ivy Road, are approved; and
* RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.
* RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the Printing and Copying Services Addition are approved; and
* RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.
* RESOLVED that the concept, site, and design guidelines, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University for the "Rugby Administrative Building" renovation are approved; and
* RESOLVED FURTHER that the project will be presented for further review at the schematic design level of development.
* RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with VMDO Architects of Charlottesville for the renovations to the College at Wise Science Building, is approved for further development and construction.
* RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas of Norfolk for the College at Wise New Residence Hall, is approved for further development and construction.
* RESOLVED that the schematic design, dated October 4, 2007, and prepared by the Architect for the University in conjunction with Hanbury Evans Wright Vlattas of Norfolk for the College at Wise New Dining Hall, is approved for further development and construction.

## MEDICAL CENTER OPERATING BOARD, JULY 2007, AND OCTOBER 3, 2007

### CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS, JULY 2007

### NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that pursuant to the delegation of authority contained in the May 12, 2005, Resolution of the Medical Center Operating Board, the undersigned Chair of the Medical Center Operating Board hereby approves the following Credentialing and Re-credentialing Actions as specifically set forth below:

### REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### RESIGNATIONS OF CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Clinical Staff are approved:

### PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

### RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

### RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

### CREDENTIALING AND RECREDENTIALING ACTIONS, OCTOBER 3, 2007

### NEW APPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for appointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### REAPPOINTMENTS TO THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of specific privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### SECONDARY REAPPOINTMENTS TO CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for secondary reappointment to the Clinical Staff of the University of Virginia Medical Center and the granting of privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### STATUS CHANGES TO CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status changes in clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### RESIGNATIONS FROM THE CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of clinical privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### SECONDARY APPOINTMENT RESIGNATION FOR CLINICAL STAFF

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following practitioners are approved:

### PRIVILEGES FOR NEW ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the granting of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

### RENEWAL OF PRIVILEGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the renewal of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

### STATUS CHANGES FOR ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the status change in privileges to the following Allied Health Professional are approved:

### RESIGNATIONS OF ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS

RESOLVED that the recommendations of the Clinical Staff Executive Committee for the resignation and expiration of privileges to the following Allied Health Professionals are approved:

## ATTACHMENT STATE OPERATING BUDGET REQUESTS FOR THE 2008-2010 BIENNIUM FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

### ACADEMIC DIVISION, MEDICAL CENTER, AND THE UNIVERSITY'S COLLEGE AT WISE

#### ATTACHMENT A

State Operating Budget Requests for the 2008-2010 Biennium for the University of Virginia Academic Division, Medical Center, and The University's College at Wise AGENCY 207 — Academic Division: AGENCY 209 — Medical Center: AGENCY 246 — University's College at Wise:

#### ATTACHMENT B

Board of Visitors Special Committee on Foundations Final Report Introduction Methodology Observations Conclusions and Recommendations

Extension of Higher Education Research Initiative ($6.725 million GF and $3.75 million ETF in years one and two) — Originally appropriated in 2006-2007, the continuation of this appropriation as part of the base operating budget will allow the University to make continuing, strategic investments in the research enterprise, generating increased sponsored research funding of at least $14.35 million in each year to match the Commonwealth's investment.

Produced in Virginia ($1,500,000 GF in year one and $1,658,000 GF in year two) — The University will partner with the Virginia Community College System to increase the number of undergraduate engineering degrees awarded in the Commonwealth. Students will complete the first two years of coursework at a community college, then enroll in the University of Virginia and complete an engineering bachelor's degree program through asynchronous technology. At full implementation in six years, the University projects to award an additional 400 degrees per year. These students, all of whom are expected to be Virginians, will be incremental to the number of students previously projected in discussions with the State Council of Higher Education. The request represents start-up costs (recruiting, course design, equipment) of $1.5 million in the first year and $1.3 million in the second year, plus the general fund's share of base budget adequacy funding per undergraduate engineering student for the incremental in-state students (32 FTE) who will join the University in the summer of 2009.

Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy ($418,000 GF in year one and $1,333,000 GF in year two) — The University has received a $100 million gift from Mr. Frank Batten to create the Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy. These students in the school will be in excess of the number of students previously projected in discussions with the State Council of Higher Education. The request represents the average base budget adequacy funding per in-state student.

Safety and Security ($1,000,000 GF in year one and $500,000 GF in year two) — The University has created a new Office of Emergency Preparedness in order to respond quickly, appropriately, and effectively in the event of campus-wide emergency events; $350,000 in ongoing state funds are requested to support this initiative. The University has begun to implement new security measures to increase the level of security across the Grounds, particularly in classrooms. Given the number and complexity of University buildings and the size of the Grounds it will take time to effect all the needed changes. In addition, we are still evaluating the recommendations from the Governor's panel investigating the Virginia Tech tragedy. The University needs to be in a position to address those recommendations that are appropriate for our situation and institution. We estimate a one-time request of $650,000 in the first year and $150,000 in the second year to address these recommendations.

Provide Funding for Operations and Maintenance Costs at New Facilities ($951,300 GF in year one and $1,701,100 GF in year two) — Request support for operations and maintenance costs of new facilities scheduled to open in the 2008-2010 biennium.

Implementation of New Student Information System ($1,500,000 GF in year one and $3,000,000 GF in year two) — The University requests state support for the project implementation in 2008-2009 and 2009-2010; funding will be used for ongoing maintenance and support after implementation.

Supplement Library Collections ($1,000,000 GF in year one and year two) — It is critical that the University invest in expensive electronic and print journal subscriptions, expand scientific and multi-cultural resources, and initiate necessary preservation and digitization efforts. The base budget adequacy formula does not appropriately address the needs of a research library that is also looked to as a state resource.

College Guides Program ($240,000 GF in year one and year two) — Funding is requested for a joint venture, potentially with the College of William & Mary and Virginia Tech, to help more Virginia students enter college or other post-secondary training. Initially funded with a grant by the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation, the program will need on-going funding to be sustained.

Cancer Research Initiative ($5,000,000 GF in year one and year two) — This is a joint venture request with Virginia Commonwealth University to increase cancer research funding in the Commonwealth.

Support the Virginia Folklife Program ($100,000 GF in year one and year two) — This support will enable the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities to expand the Virginia Folklife Program, a long-standing program of the Foundation.

Adjust Indigent Care Guidelines — The Medical Center is considering a joint request with the VCU Health Authority to increase guidelines related to qualified indigent patients to 300 percent of poverty level versus the current definition of 200 percent of poverty level. The level of funding required will depend upon actual indigent care services provided by the Medical Center.

New Student Information System ($1.5 million GF and 2.0 FTEs in year one and $131,500 and 2.0 FTEs in year two) - The College's current Student Information System will no longer be supported after this year. Due to the less complex business requirements of the College and the estimated cost and timeline for implementing PeopleSoft Campus Solutions at Wise, it is not appropriate for the College to join the Academic Division's student system project. This funding will provide for system acquisition and implementation in year one and ongoing operational support in year two.

Critical Faculty Additions ($316,400 GF and 4.0 FTEs in year one and year two) - The College requires four critical faculty positions to address shortfalls within Business (2.0 FTE), Chemistry (1.0 FTE), and Health and Fitness Management (1.0 FTE).

Science Renovation ($2,263,118 GF) Smiddy Hall Renovation/IT Building Construction ($3,000,000) These two requests are for supplemental funding due to construction cost escalation. The supplements were funded by the Governor during 2007 General Assembly session, but due to the final level of funding authorized by the General Assembly (only 90 percent of the system-wide construction project supplements requested) and the status of these two projects at that time (not yet designed or under contract), we must resubmit the requests.

The University of Virginia's policy on the establishment, governance, financial responsibilities and mission of university-related foundations was adopted in May of 1992 by Board of Visitors resolution.

In the past 15 years, University-related foundations have flourished (today there are 24, exclusive of subsidiaries) and now provide a host of varied but valuable services throughout the entire community. As Foundations have prospered and proliferated, a host of dedicated alumni have renewed their commitment and passion to the University by participating actively through their respective school or non-academic foundation. These individuals have provided philanthropy, leadership, guidance and support to the University in extraordinary fashion. And the Board of Visitors is both grateful and appreciative for the marvelous contributions of each of these Foundations and their representative members.

Concomitant with rapid growth and success at all strong institutions, however, comes the need to revisit critical elements of policy, governance, financial control, efficiencies and sensible strategy. And so the University's Board of Visitors, cognizant of the rapid growth and change in the University's 24 different Foundations in the past 15 years, deemed it appropriate to re-examine Foundation policy, procedures, governance, finances, strengths, weaknesses and efficiencies. To undertake this study, the Rector appointed a Special Committee on Foundations. The attached report reflects that Committee's findings and recommendations.

The Chair of the Special Committee on Foundations and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the University scheduled one-on-one individual meetings with each of the 14 major University foundations to best understand their specific needs and requirements. Each such meeting averaged close to two hours and standard questions were posed in an interview format. Using information obtained from each Foundation's response to similar questions, a compendium of over 100 pages of type-written notes was created.

Several general observations were gleaned from that information:

The Committee recommendations are based on the information provided by the individual one-on-one foundation meetings, a review of the Policy on University-Related Foundations adopted by the Board of Visitors in 1992, and from extensive Committee discussion as to proper governance, financial control, efficiencies, policy and strategy.

The nine recommendations of the Special Committee on Foundations are:

Before these recommendations are formally voted upon by the Board of Visitors, the Chair and the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer plan to revisit each major foundation to be sure there is understanding and agreement.

The Special Committee on Foundations recommends that it remain as a special committee to the Board for one year. During this time, the Special Committee will monitor progress on the above recommendations and consider some additional issues pertinent to its work such as unrestricted endowment and annual giving.
