Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 4, 2007

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2010

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

December 4, 2007 MEMORANDUM
---------------------------

TO: The Board of Visitors:

W. Heywood Fralin, Rector

John O. Wynne, Vice Rector

Austin Ligon

Daniel R. Abramson

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

A. Macdonald Caputo

The Hon. Lewis F. Payne

The Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein

Don R. Pippin

Susan Y. Dorsey

Gordon F. Rainey, Jr.

Thomas F. Farrell, II

Warren M. Thompson

G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh, Jr.

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Glynn D. Key

Carey J. Mignerey

FROM: Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr.

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Telephonic Poll of the Board on December 4, 2007

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was polled by telephone on December 4, 2007, on the naming of the new building that has been erected as the annex to Rouss Hall —; the two buildings will serve as the home of the McIntire School of Commerce beginning in the second semester of this academic year.

The building was given by John A. Griffin, who took his degree from the McIntire School in 1985. At the time of his gift, Mr. Griffin specified that he wanted to delay the naming until around December 1st of this year. Subsequently, he asked that the building be named in honor of his mentor, the New York financier Julian H. Robertson, Jr., and his wife, Josie.

The President and the University Names Committee approved the naming.

All voting Members of the Board approved the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the annex to Rouss Hall be named Robertson Hall, the two buildings to be opened in 2008 as the new quarters of the McIntire School of Commerce. The naming honors Julian H. Robertson, Jr. and his wife, Josie;

RESOLVED FURTHER, the Board expresses its great gratitude to John A. Griffin, an alumnus of the McIntire School, not only for his continuing support and interest, but for his magnificent gift which has made possible the construction of Robertson Hall.