January 11, 2010

MEMORANDUM

TO: The Board of Visitors:

John O. Wynne, Rector

Daniel R. Abramson, Vice Rector

A. Macdonald Caputo

The Honorable Alan A. Diamonstein

Susan Y. Dorsey

Helen E. Dragas

W. Heywood Fralin

Glynn D. Key

Rahul Gorawara

Robert D. Hardie

Randal J. Kirk

Austin Ligon

Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr.

The Honorable Lewis F. Payne

Don R. Pippin

Warren M. Thompson

E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

FROM: Susan G. Harris

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Special Meeting of the Full Board of Visitors on January 11, 2010

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met, in Open Session, at 2:30 p.m., on Monday, January 11, 2010, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda; John O. Wynne, Rector, presided.

Daniel R. Abramson, the Hon. Alan A. Diamonstein, Ms. Susan Y. Dorsey, Ms. Helen E. Dragas, W. Heywood Fralin, Austin Ligon, Vincent J. Mastracco, Jr., the Hon. Lewis F. Payne, and Warren M. Thompson were present.

Participating by telephone were A. Macdonald Caputo, Rahul Gorawara, Robert D. Hardie, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Randal J. Kirk, Don R. Pippin, and E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr., M.D.

Present as well were Leonard W. Sandridge, Ms. Susan G. Harris, Paul J. Forch, Ms. Jeanne Flippo Bailes. Deans, vice presidents, employees, and friends of the University as well as representatives of the local media were also in attendance.

The Rector brought the meeting to order and announced that a quorum of the Board was present. He said the purpose of the meeting was to elect the eighth president of the University. The Rector asked for a motion, and Ms. Dorsey moved the adoption of the following resolution:

\[resolution\]

The Rector asked for a second which he received. Hearing no further discussion, the Rector asked the Board members in attendance to vote. All in attendance voted in the affirmative.

The Rector asked the Secretary to poll the Members participating by telephone. The Secretary read the roll of the telephone participants, and all voted in the affirmative. The voting Members participating by telephone were A. Macdonald Caputo, Robert D. Hardie, Ms. Glynn D. Key, Randal J. Kirk, Don R. Pippin, and E. Darracott Vaughan, Jr. M.D.

The Rector introduced the eighth president of the University, Ms. Teresa A. Sullivan. Ms. Sullivan comes to the University from the University of Michigan where she is provost and executive vice president for academic affairs. She is a leading scholar in labor force demography.

The Rector talked about the qualities the Board was seeking in a president: a leader; a distinguished academic; someone who understands enterprise risk management; a person who can recruit and motivate a high-achieving team; a person with emotional intelligence; committed to our alumni and friends; loves teaching and students and is committed to the University’s public mission; understand research; committed to the student experience and all aspects of diversity; understands the benefit of athletics to the University and its constituents; is familiar with academic medicine and health care; will commit to expanding success at the College at Wise; able to work with government officials; understands the need for a new financial model; committed to furthering the natural sciences and engineering as well as the humanities and social sciences; and is able to understand and appreciate the values and traditions of the University of Virginia. He said Ms. Sullivan has had experience and success in all of these areas.

The Rector recited Ms. Sullivan’s extensive experience, most recently at Michigan and previously at the University of Texas where she worked her way through the ranks from assistant professor to vice provost, then vice president and dean of graduate studies, and finally executive vice chancellor of the Texas System responsible for academic affairs at nine campuses.

Throughout her career, Ms. Sullivan has continued teaching and publishing. She is the author or co-author of six books and more than 80 scholarly articles and chapters. The Rector quoted Mr. Fralin as saying, “Terry is as knowledgeable about the issues facing higher education as anyone I’ve met in the last 20 years. She will be an outstanding president in every respect”.

The Rector introduced Ms. Sullivan’s husband, Douglas Laycock, a law professor who will assume a position at the Law School, and her two sons, John and Joseph Laycock.

In her remarks, Ms. Sullivan accepted the presidency, complimented President Casteen on his accomplishments as president, and reflected on the qualities of the University community including the College at Wise. Ms. Sullivan’s full remarks are appended to these Minutes.

Following Ms. Sullivan’s remarks, the Rector thanked the Committee on the Nomination of a President and the search staff, asking them to stand and be recognized.

The Rector read excerpts from a letter from President Casteen welcoming Ms. Sullivan to the University.

Mr. Casteen said in part, “This special place and its people have filled my family’s and my own experience with joy, with excitement, with the pleasure of belonging to a community rich in human goodness. We wish the same happiness for you and yours”.

The Rector reminded those assembled of a reception for the President-elect in Newcomb Hall at 4:00 p.m.

\- - - - - - - - -

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:10 p.m.