---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1832'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1832) July 10, 1832
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 10, 1832

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

14 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At a meeting of the Visitors of the University of Virginia at the University July 1832.

July 10th the day appointed for the Meeting of the Board, no board was formed.

July 11 - The Board met. Present - James Breckenridge, Joseph C. Cabell, William H. Broadnax, and Thomas J. Randolph. John H. Cocke appeared and took his seat at the Board during the day. The Board was organized by calling General Breckenridge to the Chair. There having been a new appointment of Visitors by the Executive of the State since the last meeting in obedience to the act of Assembly establishing the University, the Board proceeded to the election of its officers, when the following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, That James Madison be elected Rector of the University.

Resolved, that the health of the Rector preventing his attendance at the present meeting of the Visitors, James Breckenridge be elected Rector Pro Tempore.

Resolved, That Frank Carr be elected Secretary of the Board of Visitors.

The Board were engaged the remainder of the day in reading communications, and the books of the Chairman and Faculty.

The Board then adjourned to meet tomorrow.

Thursday July 12.

The Board met according to adjournment. Present the same members as on yesterday. The following committees were appointed:

of Finance; Messrs. Broadnax & Cocke.

of Inspection; Messrs. Cabell and Randolph.

of Bursar's & Proctor's accounts; Genl. Cocke.

The following resolution was adopted:

Resolved that all the members of the Board of Visitors be a Committee of the Whole to take into consideration the propriety of applying to the Legislature for the establishment of a Court of record in the University, and with powers to ask for the same; if they deem it expedient, in the name of the Rector and Visitors.

The Board then adjourned to meet again tomorrow morning.

Friday July 13.

In consequence of the engagements of the Committees, a quorum could not be formed in the morning. In the afternoon the Board met. Present the same members as on yesterday.

A letter was laid before the Board from Mr. Madison, stating that he was detained from their session by indisposition.

The proceedings of the Faculty of the University on yesterday were read.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, that the application of Donald McLeod for facilities to teach elocution in the University of Virginia, be referred to the Faculty to dispose of as to them shall appear expedient; and that the Faculty have discretionary power to permit Mr. McLeod and his family to reside within the precincts of the University, if to them it shall appear expedient, in any house they may find convenient for the purpose, and on such terms as they shall deem just.

Resolved, that in future the offices of Patron & Proctor shall be united in the same person.

The Board then adjourned to meet again tomorrow morning.

Saturday July 14.

In consequence of the engagements of the Committees, no board was formed.

Monday, July 16.

The Board met. Present the same members as on Friday.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved, That the account presented by Dr. Th: Johnson, exhibiting a balance due of $61.23 1/2 be allowed and paid by the Proctor.

Resolved, That the appointment of Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery, as at present provided by the enactments, shall be discontinued; & that in lieu thereof, there shall be established a Professorship of Anatomy and Surgery.

Resolved, That in the School of Anatomy & Surgery, shall be taught the Branches of Medical Science known under those denominations.

Resolved, That until other provision shall be deemed necessary and proper by the Visitors, the Professor of Anatomy and Surgery shall have the same standing Salary, fees, and other emoluments, & privileges, and shall perform the same duties as are now allowed or prescribed for the Demonstrator of Anatomy & Surgery.

Resolved, That Doctor Thomas Johnson, late Demonstrator of Anatomy and Surgery, be elected Professor of Anatomy and Surgery.

Resolved, That George Tucker, Professor of Moral Philosophy &c. be elected Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

Resolved, That whenever any Hotel Servant, from bad habits or misconduct, shall be deemed by the Faculty unfit to remain at the University, it shall be the duty of the Hotel keeper to dismiss such servant, and upon failure to do so, shall be liable to a fine at the discretion of the Faculty.

Resolved, That when the Faculty, the Chairman, any Professor, or the Proctor shall have reason to beleive that any Student or Students shall have any knowledge in regard to the perpetrator of any act committed at that session or any previous session cognizable by a Grand Jury it shall be the duty of the Faculty to cause notice to be given him or them, that process will be obtained to enforce their appearance before the Grand Jury to give testimony in relation to such act, and they shall moreover direct the Proctor to apply for such process, and aid in it's execution. And the evasion of such process shall be punished by dismission. Offences discovered in this or any other way shall be punished in the manner prescribed by the enactments tho' committed at any preceding session.

Resolved, That the Board are gratified to find that the Professors have during the present session generally made their weekly class reports with punctuality. They observe, however, that few of the Professors have made them in the form prescribed by the enactments. The Board would remind the Faculty that they do not deem that form unimportant, and request that it may be observed in future. The Board then adjourned, to meet again tomorrow morning.

Teusday July 17.

The Board met according to adjournment. Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee of Inspection made their report. On their recommendation the following resolutions were adopted.

1\. Resolved that it shall be the duty of the Proctor, under the directions of the Executive Committee, to have such painting & white-washing executed in the Library, as they may deem essential to restore & to purify the apartment.

2\. Resolved, That in future no public assemblages shall be held in the Library except those connected with the public exercises of the University at the annual meetings of the Visitors.

3\. Resolved, that the Librarian, on behalf of the Board of Visitors, invite the particular attention of the Professors of the University to the regulations requiring a note to be left of books taken out of the Library by Professors, and that such books should not be kept out of the Library beyond a reasonable time.

4\. Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the Proctor under the direction of the Professor of Chemistry to cause the Chemical lecture room to be white washed, the benches in the room to be painted, & the cistern in the Chemical laboratory to be compleated.

5\. Resolved, That the sum of $100 be annually appropriated from the Funds of the University, for the purpose of procuring subjects for the Anatomical class, and for adding to the Anatomical Museum.

6\. Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the Proctor, under the directions of the Professor of Natural Philosophy, to cause inside shutters to be affixed to the windows of the Philosophical lecture room, and to make the other improvements in that apartment which are indicated in Professor Patterson's Letter of 16th July 1832 to the Committee of Inspection.

7\. Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the Proctor to furnish the Executive Committee a copy of all unexecuted resolutions imposing duties on that Committee, with a view to their prompt Execution in future.

8\. Resolved, that the Proctor be required to make out every year, in future, a separate account in detail of the expense of all buildings, enclosures, paintings and repairs, that occur during each year, and submit the same to the Board of Visitors at it's annual meeting.

9\. Resolved, that the sum of $250 be appropriated from the Funds of the University under the directions of the Faculty to the encrease of the Library during the ensuing year.

10\. Resolved, that the Librarian report annually to the Committee of Inspection, the donations to the Library during the previous year, with the names of the Donors, as also the whole number of volumes in the Library.

11\. Resolved, that it shall be the duty of the Proctor under the directions of the Executive Committee to cause to be erected in the rear of Professor Emmet's Pavilion an addition to the basement story for the accommodation of Domestics similar to those already annexed to the Pavilions of Professors Tucker, Bonnycastle, and Harrison, & a stair case from the 2d to the Garret story of Professor Emmet's Pavilion similar to the one already executed in Professor Dunglison's Pavilion, and that Professor Dunglison be reimbursed from the funds of the University for his advances for the latter improvement.

Resolved, that the Faculty of this University in scrutinizing into the commission of offences, against the laws of the Institution, and ascertaining the persons guilty, have power to call on any Student or Students and require him or them to state on their honor whether they know the perpetrators of such violations of Law, and if so to inform the Board who they are, and give all the evidence in their possession against them, & if any student thus called on shall refuse to give the required information, the Faculty shall have power to impose on him any punishment minor or major, now prescribed by the existing laws of this Institution for any offence, as in their discretion may be deemed expedient;- including expulsion itself.

Resolved, that the power herein conceded may be forthwith legitimately exercised in reference to any offence, heretofore as well as hereafter committed, so as to obtain evidence of such previous offence, taking care to punish such previous offence no otherwise however, than it might have been punished when the offence was committed.

A communication from a meeting of a number of the Students of the University held this morning in the Rotunda, disclaiming all communion with the perpetrators of some recent acts of wanton mischief and outrage, and stigmatizing such conduct as disgraceful and ungentlemanly, was received by the board.

The Board then adjourned to attend the public exercises of the day in the Library.

In the afternoon the Board met again &, after sometime spent in consultation, and reading the Faculty proceedings of the preceeding day, adjourned to meet again on tomorrow morning.

Wednesday July 18.

The Board met according to adjournment.

Present the same members as on yesterday.

The Committee of Finance reported. The following resolutions were then adopted.

Resolved, that the account presented by Dr. Dunglison amounting to $65 be allowed and paid by the Proctor.

Resolved, that the promissary note presented by Dr. Dunglison, executed by A. S. Brokenborough Proctor to Geo. W. Spooner and endorsed by the latter, for $94.93 with Interest from the 20th Nov. 1829 be allowed, and paid by the Proctor.

Resolved, that if the Faculty shall be satisfied from the past conduct or character of any Student of the University, that his further continuance at the University would be productive of injury to the Institution, they shall give notice to the parent or guardian of such Student, if a minor, and, if of lawful age to the Student himself that he would not be again permitted to matriculate; and, if any such Student, whether such notice may or may not have been received, should present himself for readmission, it shall be the duty of the Faculty to refuse him the privilege of matriculation.

The Board of Visitors having received a communication from Dr. Patterson, relative to the purchase last Christmas by the Proctor, Professor Davis, and himself conjunctly, of the Slave Lewis Commodore, for the use of the University, for the reasons detailed in his letter, and proposing to the Board to assume the purchase on the terms contracted by them, and the Board assenting to the proposition; therefore

Resolved, that the Proctor pay the sum of $580 for the purchase of the servant Lewis Commodore, to the person and at the time as contracted by himself and Professors Patterson and Davis, and that he be held hereafter as the property of the University.

Resolved, that the application of Professor Davis respecting his stable be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved that the application of Mrs. Gray respecting certain repairs to her Hotel be referred to the Executive Committee.

Resolved, that any committee authorised to settle any account of the University with it's officers or others, shall be empowered to employ an accountant to aid them, to be paid by the Proctor on the warrant of such committee.

Resolved, that $100 from the funds of the University be applied by the Proctor under the directions of the Professor of Medicine to the purchase of a mannequin or Phantom to aid the Professor in his lectures on Obstetricks.

Resolved, that the Executive Committee in proceedings to Execute the resolutions of the Visitors shall take care to avoid, as far as possible, any excess of expenditure over the disposable resources of the University, & if they find it necessary to discriminate among appropriations, they shall use their best discretion in giving a preference.

Resolved, that James Madison, Jno. H. Cocke, Th: J. Randolph, and Joseph C. Cabell constitute the Executive Committee of this Board, and that any two of them have power, in the absence of the rest, to act.

Resolved, unanimously, that the resolution of the Visitors of 20th July 1830, authorising the Executive Committee to apply the Pavilion of the Professor of Modern Languages to such use as they might deem expedient be repealed.

Resolved unanimously, that, unless the Visitors at their next annual meeting should otherwise provide, the office of Tutor of Modern Languages as at present organized shall be discontinued and, in lieu thereof such other provision be substituted as the Visitors may then prescribe.

Resolved, that the Secretary be requested to furnish a copy of these resolutions to the Professor of Modern Languages.

Resolved, that should either of the Hotel Keepers discontinue the occupancy of his Hotel on the first of January next, his successor shall not be appointed by the Proctor without the consent of the Executive Committee.

Resolved, that Dr. Dunglison be permitted to deliver lectures on the Philosophy of Natural History untill a professor of Natural History shall be appointed by the Authorities of the University. His fee shall be $15.

Resolved, that William G. Pendleton of the City of Richmond be appointed Proctor and Patron of the University;and should he not accept the appointment, the office shall be filled by the Executive Committee

Resolved, that the compensation to the Proctor & Patron for his services shall be the same commissions which were heretofore allowed the Patron for administering the funds of the Students, and if the said commissions shall fall short of the sum of $1200 annually the difference shall be paid to him out of the funds of the University.

Resolved, that the resolution of the Faculty for the Expulsion of Wm. P. Winfree late a Student of the University be approved by the Visitors.

Resolved, that the Faculty shall have power to exclude from the lecture room during the public examinations all persons at their discretion save the Students under examination.

Resolved, that it shall be competent to the Faculty to confer the honorary distinction of graduate in the School of Mixed Mathematics as well as in the School of pure Mathematics; and this power may be exercised in reference to the present as well as to future public examinations.

Resolved, that Mrs. Brokenborough, widow of the late Patron, be authorised to occupy free of rent the buildings and grounds where she now resides till the end of the present year, at which time they shall be appropriated to the use of the Proctor and Patron of the University.

Resolved, that until the end of the present year the Proctor and Patron shall have authority to occupy Pavilion No. 7, and thereafter said Pavilion shall be reserved for the accommodation of the Visitors at their annual meetings, and appropriated in the intervals of the meetings as an office for the Proctor and as an additional place of lectures for the further accommodation of the Professors of the University.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
