---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1836'
month: 8
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1836) August 11, 1836
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

August 11, 1836

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

18 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

On the 1st of July 1836 the day provided in the enactments for the stated annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia a quorum fail'd to meet. A called meeting to be held on the 11th of August was appointed, when Messrs. Cocke, Cabell, Randolph, Rives, and Taylor, appeared and a Board being organised by the appointment of Genl. Cocke as Rector pro tempore, they proceeded to business.

With a view of expediting the preparation of the subjects which might deserve the notice of the board,

Resolved that two committees be appointed, one to read the records of the proceedings of the Faculty & the other the Chairman's Book and to report such matters as may seem to require the action of the Board. Messrs. Taylor, Cabell, & Cocke were appointed on the former committee & Messrs. Rives and Randolph on the latter.

A communication from the Proctor in reply to the report of the Committee of Inspection of the July session of the Board 1835 censuring his conduct was read and laid upon the table.

The Board then adjourned to meet tomorrow morning 9 O.Clock.

Friday August 12. Present as on yesterday.

In consequence of the absence of the Professors generally from the University during the vacation no committee of Inspection was appointed. Messrs. Rives and Taylor were appointed on the Committee of Finance & Messrs. Randolph, Cocke & Cabell on that of the Proctors & Bursar's accts.

The following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved that the sentence of expulsion against Robert O. Maupin, late a Student of the University, be approved by the Board of Visitors.

Resolved that the sentence of expulsion against B. T. Magill be approved. (This resolution was written on the index column.)

A communication having been laid before the Board of Visitors from Dr. R. M. Patterson, stating that Mr. Hassler is desirous of purchasing the standard brass measure with the microscopes belonging to it, which are now the property of the University, for which he proposes to give the sum of $300 (three hundred dollars) and it appearing to the Board that these instruments are of but little or no utility for instruction.

Resolved, That Dr. Patterson be authorised to sell the said standard measure & microscopes attached to it, for the sum above mentioned and that he be charged with that amount as soon as it can be collected by him, in his account with the University.

The Board having considered the proposition of Professor Rogers contained in his letter to the Board of the 2d Inst: to be permitted to suspend his lectures during the month of October in the present year, the Board considering it a matter of Importance, that specimens of the minerals and fossils of our state should be obtained for the use of our University; resolved therefore that Professor Rogers have leave to suspend his lectures during the month of October next in order to enable him to complete his Geological exploration & survey in which he is now engaged.

Resolved, that the Board deem that the subject brought to their attention by the letter of Professor Magill this day laid before them, touching the sufficiency of the salary of the Secretary of the Faculty is provided for by their resolution passed Wednesday July 8th 1835 appointing and prescribing the duties of Librarian.

Resolved, that Dr. Warner's application on the subject of the dilapidation of this garden wall contained in his letter of July 4th 1836 be referred to the Executive Committee.

The Visitors having observed with much regret that, notwithstanding the enactment made by them on the 19th July 1835 for the purpose of preventing more effectually, the unauthorised suspension of lectures which had frequently occurred about Christmas, a practical recess, for some two or three weeks, had still continued to take place at this season. This regret has been increased by perceiving that in one case at least, a student who had rendered himself obnoxious to the animadversion of the laws of the Institution by absenting himself from it at that period, without leave of the Faculty, was enabled to allege in his excuse the fact that two of the Professors whose schools he attended had left the University, and the third had suspended his lectures during the same period. - The Board of Visitors impressed more and more with the importance in every point of view of suppressing this irregular vacation in the duties of the University, deem it necessary again to call the especial attention of the Faculty to the subject and to urge upon them a strict execution and enforcement of the enactment above referred to, and that in no case, an intermission of the regular services of the Institution shall take place at Christmas for a longer period than two days, which the Faculty at their discretion are authorised to grant.

A letter from Wm. T. Joynes, late a Student of the University addressed to the Rector on the 30th of June containing an extract of a letter from Richd. H. Lee Esqr. touching the papers of his grandfather, which were formerly given to the University, having been read; in consideration thereof:

Resolved, that the Visitors having regard to the value of the manuscripts referred to and the danger of loss or injury in sending them without the walls of the Institution feel it a duty to decline to part with the originals with the exception of a single letter or other manuscript to be selected by the Chairman of the Faculty from the collection of said manuscripts, one of the late Richd. H. Lee, one of Francis L. Lee & one of Mr. Jefferson, and to be sent to Mr. Lee as autographs of his GrandFather, of Francis L. Lee & of Mr. Jefferson.

Resolved That the Secretary be requested to make copies of all the writings in said collection of the Late Richd. H. Lee Esqr. of the following dates viz:- 1775, 1776, 1777, 1784, 1785, 1788, & 1789 and also all the letters of the late Edmund Pendleton Esqr. and to transmit the said copies to Mr. Richd. H. Lee as requested in the letter laid before the Board.

Resolved, that it shall be the duty of the Secretary to retain copies certified by the Chairman of the Faculty of the three original papers directed to be returned by the preceeding resolution.

Resolved, that the letter of Mr. Jno. W. Harris a Student of this Institution addressed to the Visitors of the University & dated the 5th July 1836 be referred to the Faculty, and that in consideration of the peculiar circumstances of his case, & especially the fact that he entered the University previous to the enactment of the present law prescribing the qualifications for obtaining the Degree of Master of Arts, the Faculty be authorised at their discretion to grant the application of Mr. Harris therein contained.

Resolved, that in consequence of the advance in the prices of various articles necessary for the diet and accommodation of the Students the price charged for board shall be $125 per session untill the further order of this Board.

Resolved that the accounts laid before the Board for advertising by the Milledgeville Recorder, by E. W. Sims, Timberlake & Magruder, Joel Brown, the claim of Jno. C. Carter by Mrs. Gray, and the application of Wm. Dunkum to lease the land devised to the University by Martin Dawson be referred to the Proctor under the direction of the Executive Committee.

The Students, wherever resident, shall wear the Uniform prescribed, on the occasions and times following, viz: Whenever they go to a party or to church, or attend any public celebration or address, or visit at a private house, or go to Charlottesville; and also on every Sunday when they appear out of their rooms.

The Uniform coat shall consist of cloth of a dark gray mixture, at a price not exceeding six dollars a yard; and be made single breasted with a standing collar: the pantaloons and vest shall consist of the same material, except that the former may be of dark gray cassimer not exceeding in the cost of the garment that of gray cloth; and except that in warm weather, both the pantaloons & vest may be of any light and cheap materials, approved by the Chairman. The form of the dress in each article shall be according to the model provided by the Patron under the direction of the Chairman. ON all occasions the hat worn shall be black; but a cheap cap or straw hat may be substituted therefore: and the neck cloth shall be plain black or white.

Every Student shall within a reasonable time after matriculating, obtain a suit of uniform clothes; and shall not under pain of a major or minor punishment at the discretion of the Faculty, purchase any other than uniform clothes whilst he remains a Student; except that he may purchase any cheap and light summer coat or gown, approved by the Chairman but shall not wear the same on those occasions, on which the Uniform is required to be worn.

This enactment shall be in force until the end of the next session.

Resolved, That the Proctor cause an addition to be made to the house of the Janitor under the direction of the Executive Committee, provided the expense shall not exceed one hundred dollars.

Resolved, that it is deemed inexpedient to grant the request of Professors Magill & Warner to be allowed to take private pupils.

It appearing that Pavilion No. 1 & the appurtenant offices lately occupied by Doct: Emmet are exposed to dilapidation and decay in their present unoccupied state subjecting the late occupant to burdensome charges for repairs for which he is held responsible.

Resolved that Pavilion No. 1 be in future appropriated in lieu of Pavilion No. 7 to the accommodation of the Visitors, & that Pavilion No. 7 remain for the general uses of the University.

It being represented to the Board of Visitors by Joseph C. Cabell late Rector of the University, that his functions as Rector having expired on the 29th February last, and in the interval, from the want of a regular Rector, he had been induced, with a view to prevent injury to the Institution, to assume the authority of performing certain acts as temporary Rector, & especially to sign a draft in favor of the Bursar on the President and directors of the Literary fund for $5000 in part of the annuity of $15,000 granted to the University by the state, and it being his desire that such acts of assumed authority should be sanctioned by the Board:

Resolved, that the acts performed by Joseph C. Cabell, as Rector, since the 29th of Feb. last be and the same are hereby approved and confirmed by the Board of Visitors.

Resolved, that Professor Davis be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for one year to take effect from the 4th July last.

Saturday August 13th.

The Board met. Present as on yesterday, with the addition of Mr. Johnson who appeared in the course of the day & took his seat at the Board.

Resolved, That the resignation of Wm. G. Pendleton, of the office of Proctor & Patron be accepted.

Resolved, that the Chairman of the Faculty, under the directions of the Executive Committee, be required to settle the accounts of Wm. G. Pendleton late Proctor of the University, and that authority be given, if deemed necessary, to employ the services of an accountant.

Resolved, that Wm. G. Pendleton, late Proctor& Patron of the University, having on a former occasion preferred a claim of $155 on account of expenses for the hire of a clerk employed to aid him in the discharge of his official duties at periods of great pressure during the official year preceeding the last; and having now preferred a claim for the hire of a clerk and his board, for one month during the last official year, and the Board upon investigation being satisfied of the justice of these claims;

Resolved, that the sum of $182 be allowed Wm. G. Pendleton on settlement of his accounts for the aforesaid disbursements in the employment of a clerk during the last and the preceeding year.

It appearing to the Board that a horse belonging to Mr. Pendleton & worth about $20 per annum has been employed in the service of the University since the month of September 1832, and the Board being satisfied that reimbursement should be made by the Institution, altho' no claim has been preferred;

Resolved that in the settlement of his accounts Mr. Pendleton be allowed a credit of $80 on account of the services of the horse aforesaid.

Resolved, That Alexander Garrett, Bursar of the University be appointed Patron pro tem. to continue as such, till the regular appointment of a Patron.

Resolved that the certificate of deposit endorsed by Wm. G. Pendleton as Proctor for the sum of $1728.22 standing to the credit of said Pendleton as Proctor of the University at the Bank of Virginia be deliverty by the Secretary to the Patron pro tempore.

Resolved, that if upon final settlement, a balance should appear to be due from Wm. G. Pendleton to the University of Virginia it shall be the duty of the Executive Committee to collect such balance, and such portion of said balance, if any, as may be due from him as Patron shall be paid over by the said Committee to the Patron of the University, and such portion, if any as may be due from him as Proctor , shall be paid to the Bursar: And if upon such final settlement, a balance should appear in favor of said Pendleton, it shall be the duty of said Committee to draw upon the Bursar in favor of said Pendleton in payment of such balance.

A letter from Professor Bonnycastle to a member of the Board, representing his efforts for some years past to introduce a course of lectures on civil engineering, stating as the result of his experiments and observations his conviction of the practicability of introducing with success a department of civil engineering, and presenting his views of a proper organization having been laid before the Board; and Mr. Rogers, Professor of Natural Philosophy having been advised with as to the plan, and his cooperation with the Professor of Mathematics in it's execution.

Resolved, that there shall be a department of civil engineering in the University and that it shall comprise the following branches of Instruction -

1\. Graphical Mathematics; embracing descriptive Geometry, Perspective, Mensuration &c.

2\. Theory of Levelling and surveying both ordinary and topographical.

3\. Theory of Roads, Rail roads, Canals & Bridges.

4\. Theoretical Mechanics, Hydrostatics, and Hydrodynamics as connected with Engineering.

5\. Laws of Heat & Steam. Theory and construction of the steam engine.

6\. Geology and Mineralogy.

7\. Levelling, Surveying &c taught practically in the field.

8\. Plan drawing, Plotting, topographical drawing & sketching.

The subjects named under the six first heads shall be divided between the Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in the following manner - The former shall have charge of the Branches mentioned under the first, second and third heads, viz.- Graphical Mathematics, Theory of Roads &c. the latter of those named under the fourth fifth and sixth heads viz. Theoretical Mechanics, Geology &c.

The subjects designated under the seventh & eighth heads shall be allotted to a third person to be styled the Teacher of drawing.

The department of Drawing &c shall be under the joint superintendence of the Professors of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, and the teacher of Drawing shall be appointed by them -

The various branches above enumerated shall be considered as forming one school, and Students attending all three of the classes therein included shall be regarded in relation to fees graduation and other particulars as students in general, attending any other schools of the University- Students attending one or two only of the three classes in this school shall be required to attend some other school in the University unless in cases where, for good reasons the Faculty may permit othersise.

The Professors of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, shall each lecture once a week, and the teacher of drawing &c shall give instructions, not less than twice a week to their respective classes in this school.

The compensation to each of the three teachers shall be 15$ for the session.

Resolved, that the Board of Visitors have witnessed with regret the condition of the window shutters of many of the Pavilions, particularly the condition of the painting, and it shall be the duty of the Proctor in future to have all such repairs and painting to the external windows and shutters well executed and charged to the Professor whose duty it was to keep the same in repair. See Ch: 1 Sec: 14 printed enactments.

The sons of the Professors and officers of the University shall be allowed in future to matriculate whenever they are qualified without regard to age.

It is deemed the duty of the Secretary of the Faculty to fold, direct; and send off the monthly circulars.

The Professors are expected punctually to attend the monthly meetings of the Faculty for the purpose of filling up the circulars of their respective classes.

Resolved, that the Proctor, under the directions of the Executive Committee cause a suitable kitchen to be erected in the rear of Pavilion No. 10.

William G. Pendleton, late Proctor shall be allowed to retain the use of the buildings now in his occupancy as long as in the opinion of the Executive Committee it is consistent with the convenience & interests of the University.

Resolved, That the enactments, with regard to festive entertainments, cards, fire arms &c which apply to resident Students in their rooms shall be held to apply equally to Students residing in licensed boarding houses.

Resolved that Chapman Johnson be appointed Rector of the University.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorised to appoint a person to discharge the duties of Proctor & Patron subject to the approval of the Board of Visitors in their next annual meeting, and untill their regualr appointment, to make such temporary appointment as they may deem expedient and proper.

Resolved, That a Clerk to the office of Proctor and Patron be appointed by the Proctor, with the approbation of the Executive Committee to hold his office during the pleasure of the Proctor; tho' he may be removed at any time by the Board of Visitors or by the Executive Committee. He shall receive an annual Salary of $500, payable quarterly as the Salaries of the other officers are paid. He shall keep regular books of accounts pertaining to the office of Proctor & Patron, and perform such other duties of      correspondence, drawing writing, and copying as shall be required of him by the Proctor & Patron.

The Salary of Proctor and Patron shall be not less than fifteen hundred dollars per annum payable quarterly. The income from his commissions upon the deposits, and from his commissions on the supplies of fuel and candles shall be applied towards the discharge of the Salary of his clerk and his own Salary. If they exceed those Salaries he shall enjoy the surplus. If they fall short of those Salaries the deficiency shall be supplied from the revenues of the University.

Resolved that the sum of $500 be appropriated to be expended under the direction of the Executive Committee in the purchase of books for the Library.

The Board then adjourned Sine die.

On Saturday, July 1st 1837, the day for the stated annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, Joseph C. Cabell, John H. Cocke & Wm. C. Rives met - These gentlemen, not constituting a quorum, were engaged in reading the Books of the Chairman and Faculty and in noting from them such matters as might seem to require the action of the Board when a quorum should assemble - On Monday, July 3d Messrs. James M. Mason and Samuel Taylor were added to the number, and the Board organized themselves by calling Gen: Cocke to the Chair in the absence of the Rector-

Mr. Taylor communicated a letter to the Board from Chapman Johnson, Rector, announcing his necessary absence & for reasons therein contained, tendering his resignation of the Rectorship of the University.

The following committees were appointed -

Of Inspection Messrs. Cabell Randolph & Taylor

Of Finance- Rives & Mason

Of Accounts - Mason & Taylor.

The following resolutions were adopted-

Resolved, that the Chairmans communication be referred to a Select Committee - Messrs. Mason and Rives composed the Committee.

It appearing that Alexander Garrett Bursar of the University acted as Patron pro tem. from August the 24th till Sept. 22d, 1836 agreeably to the resolution of the Board of Visitors of August 13th 1836, & in that character attended at the University for a considerable portion of the interval, & received from the Students, & paid over to W. H. Woodley, the present Patron monies to the amount of $38, 204.31.

Resolved, that the Committee of Finance be requested to report to the Board the rate of compensation which should be tendered to Mr. Garrett for the services aforesaid.

Resolved that the temporary appointment of Willis H. Woodley as Proctor & Patron be confirmed & rendered permanent.

The letter of Mr. John H. C. Christian having been laid before the Board, asking to be excused from appearing in Uniform at the public exercises tomorrow - Resolved that the enactments on this subject cannot be dispensed with- and

That this resolution be communicated by the Secretary to Mr. Christian.

The Board then adjourned to meet again tomorrow morning 8 O. Clock.

Tuesday July 4th

The Board met - Present as on yesterday with the addition of Mr. Th: J. Randolph - The following resolutions were adopted.

Mr. Woodley, Proctor of the University appeared before the Board and stated that on the departure of the late Doctr. Alfred T. Magill from the University to travel for the restoration of his health, he requested the payment of his Salary for the quarter ending the 1st July upon the grounds that the medical class would be instructed by Doctr. Warner to the end of the Session; and that he had drawn a check on the Bursar for the Quarter's Salary as requested, which draft he wished to have sanctioned by the Visitors; and it appearing to the satisfaction of the Board that Doctr. Warner has performed the stipulated service in behalf of Doctr. Magill.

Resolved, that the draft of the Proctor for $250, the amount of the Quarter's Salary as aforesaid, under the painful circumstances in which Professor Magill was placed, be sanctioned by the Board of Visitors-

Resolved, unanimously that, for the present, the Board decline to accept the resignation of Mr. Chapman Johnson as Rector of this Institution.

Resolved that Dr. Gesner Harrison be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for one year.

The numerous applications for appointments to the chairs in the medical department of the University, rendered vacant by the resignation of Doctr. A. L. Warner, & the death of Doctr. Alfred T. Magill and the circumstances attending those applications rendering it unfit that the Board should now proceed to fill those vacancies, therefore

Resolved, that the Board be adjourned to meet again on Thursday the 17th August next -

The Board accordingly adjourned -
