---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1842'
month: 7
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1842) July 1, 1842
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

July 1, 1842

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

6 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

July 1st 1842 the Day appointed by the enactments for the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia Ths. J. Randolph only was in attendacne. Saturday the 2d James M. Mason was in attendance, & himself & Mr. Randolph made an inspection of the grounda & buildings of the University, and of its Library & of its various apparatus Philosophical & Chemical, preparatory to a full meeting of the Board.

Monday July 4th 1842.

The Board met: Present Chapman Johnson (Rector) Joseph C. Cabell, John H. Cocke, Thomas J. Randolph, James M. Mason, & Saml. Taylor.

The following resolutions were passed:

1\. A letter having been received from W. Coleman, one of the Students in the Law school, stating that he had been prevented from receiving a Diploma in the school of Law in consequence of his failure to give the Faculty satisfactory proof of his ability to write the English language correctly, & requesting that he may be permitted to have another trial in that language in the early part of the next session;- and the application having been duly considered - Resolved that on account of the inconvenience to which the practice might give rise, it is deemed inexpedient by the Visitors to grant the application.

2\. Resolved that the sessions of the University shall commence hereafter on the 1st day of October & terminate on the 4th day of July.

The Board then took a recess to attend the public Day.

When the Board again met Wm. C. Rives appeared and took his seat.

3\. Resolved that the appointment of professor of Mathematics in this Institution be tendered to Mr. Edward H. Courtnay, & if he shall decline the same or shall not accept it within thirty days after being apprised thereof by a communication from the Rector, in that case Mr. Pike Powers be & he is hereby appointed to that professorship.

4\. Resolved that Doct. Charles Kraitzer be appointed professor of Modern Languages in the University of Virginia.

5\. Resolved that Henry St. G. Tucker be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

Upon the application of Doct: Emmett stating that, in consequence of continued ill health, he was unable to resume his duties at the University, & expressing his hope & beleif, that by relaxation & travel his health would be reinstated-

6\. Resolved that leave of absence be given to Doct. Emmett from the University for one year from the commencement of the next session, upon his providing a substitute to discharge the duties of his Chair, who shall be approved by the Executive Committee.

7\. Resolved that the claim of Doct. Emmett to be paid for certain Chemical apparatus, purchased by him and appropriated some years since to the use of the University, be referred for adjustment to the Executive Committee, with authority to allow the same in such manner as may seem just, and to order its' payment when the Funds of the University will permit.

Tuesday July 5. 1842. Mr. Johnson & Mr. Taylor were absent from the Board. In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Cabell was appointed Rector pro tempore.

Messrs. Mason & Randolph were appointed a Committee of Finance.

The following resolutions were adopted.

1\. Resolved that from and after the commencement of the next session the Salary of each professor be $1000 per annum.

2\. Resolved that the sum of $1000 per annum be set apart as a sinking fund for the reduction of the Debt contracted by a loan from Mrs. Randolph; which sum shall be annually invested by the Bursar out of the Revenues, in stock of this state; and that the amount so invested be annually by him especially reported to the Board.

The committee of Finance made a report accompanied by the following resolutions which were adopted.

3\. Resolved that the price of Board &c at the Hotels be fixed at $110 for the session of nine months, in lieu of the sum now fixed by the Enactments.

4\. Resolved that no Student shall be, hereafter allowed to Board out of the precincts, who is not 21 years of age when he matriculates; unless he shall live with his parent or Guardian.

5\. Resolved that the compensation of the Bursar, shall be hereafter at the rate of one half of one per cent, upon his disbursements; and to the Secretary of the Board at $100 per annum.

6\. Resolved that pavilion No. 1 be assigned to the professor of Mathematics & that it be put in order for his reception by the Proctor; and that Pavilion No. 7 or the Old Library be appropriated to the use of the Visitors & prepared for them by the Proctor.

7\. Resolved that the enactment prescribing a uniform to be worn by the Students be suspended for one year from this date; & that so much of the enactments as prescribes the hour of rising in the morning be so modified as to require that the Students (under the penalty now prescribed for late rising) be ready for breakfast at their respective Hotels- and that the Janitor call upon the Hotelkeepers daily for a list of the names of absentees from Breakfast, and report the same weekly to the Chairman.

8\. Resolved that the Candidates for the degree of Master of Arts, shall hereafter be required to pass a satisfactory general examination at the close of their entire course of study on all the subjects embraced in the degree;- and that each candidate shall, moreover, satisfy the Faculty of his general literary acquirements by furnishing an appropriate essay on some subject of Literature or Science- and it shall be the duty of the Faculty to select one or more of such essays to be read by the author or authors on the public day.

About 12 M. Mr. Rives withdrew from the Board.

9\. Resolved that, hereafter the subject of Logic shall be comprehended in the Examination of candidates for graduation in the school of Moral Philosophy.

10\. Resolved, that the four large cases now standing in the Lecture room lately used by the School of Natural Philosophy, be removed to the Museum.

11, Resolved that one hundred dollars be appropriated for the purchase of Chemical apparatus & agents in addition to the customary annual appropriation made to that department.

12\. Resolved that the same reasons which induced the Board of Visitors to declare in their resolution of the 19th August 1837. "That it is inexpedient to allow the claims of professors for repairs or alterations upon their tenements made without authority from the Board", apply with equal force to all other persons occupying the other buildings or tenements of the University.

13\. Resolved that the Executive Committee be requested to have the lots facing the Hotels divided according to the original design of the Board, and the Proctor remove any fences now upon them in conformity with that design.

14\. The Board notice an unseemly shed erected on the alley leading to Pavilion No.3, which they request the Professor occupying that pavilion to have removed.
