---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1849'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1849) June 25, 1849
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 25, 1849

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

19 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

      was

$22,935.64

$22,935.64

The ordinary & current expenses for the same time were as follows.

Salaries to professors & officers

$11,562.50

Repairs & improvements

2,036.37

13,598.87

Labor

243.

Library

968.90

Advg. & printing

310.38

Contingent expenses

377.26

Schools of Anatomy & Surgery

291.14

Nat: Philosophy & Chemistry

Acct State Students

545.

Ice house & diplomas

181.

Making for the ordinary annual expenditures

16,515.55

Leaving the sum of

6,420.09

unexpended after defraying all the ordinary expenses of the year.

Against this balance of

$6,420.09

is charged the cost of building 12 new

dormitories for the accommodation of Students

and enlarging the dining room of the Steward's

house &c authorised by the board of

Visitors.

$2701.99

and in extinction of so much of

the debt of the University by the

purchase of four of the bonds to

Mrs. Randolph for loan & Int:

2010.

4,711.99

And leaving a balance of

1,708.10

in the treasury on the 1st June 1849.

In paper B accompanying the Proctor's report, the income for the year ending on the 31st May 1850, including the balance in the treasury on the 1st day of June 1849 is estimated at

$22,768.10

and the ordinary amount charges for the same time at

16,400.

Leaving the sum of

6,368.10

The accounts of the Bursar for the year ending the 31st May 1849 shew a balance in the Treasury on that day of

$1811.95

Those of the Proctor as shewn above exhibit a balance of only

1708.10

making a difference of

103.85 in

On Monday the 25th June 1849, no Board was formed: Mr. Randolph appeared early in the day & no other Visitors being present retired; during the day Mr. Mason, Genl. Cocke and Mr. Hunter appeared, but a quorum not being present no Board was organized.

On Tuesday the 26th June, a Board was organized, Genl. Cocke, Mr. Randolph, Mr. Mason and Mr. Hunter being present.

In the absence of the Rector Genl. Cocke was unanimously appointed Rector pro temp:

Reports by the Chairman of the Faculty, the Proctor, & Bursar were handed in.

A committee of Finance consisting of Messrs. Mason & Hunter was appointed and of Inspection consisting of Messrs. Randolph & Cocke.

The Book containing the Faculty proceedings was handed in.

A communication from Mr. Courtnay with the concurrence of the Faculty, suggesting the purchase of a set of Surveyor's Instruments for the purpose of teaching practical Surveying in connection with the School of Mathematics was received.

The Board passed the following resolution

On motion by Mr. Mason

1\. Resolved that the several accounts of the Proctor and Bursar and the papers referred to therein or connected therewith be referred to the Committee of Finance-

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

John H. Cocke.

Wednesday June 27th1849. The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as yesterday, with the addition of Mr. Cabell, who took the Chair as Rector.

The following resolutions were adopted.

By Mr. Hunter.

1\. Resolved that a Committee of two be appointed to consider and report upon the several propositions for the establishment of new professorships & the appointment of tutors in the University of Virginia. Committee Messrs. Hunter & Randolph.

By the same.

2\. Resolved, that a select Committee be appointed to examine the returns of the professors of the several schools and report to the Board the results of their investigation as to the fidelity with which the several professors have discharged their duties. - Same Committee.

On motion by Mr. Mason

3\. Resolved- that sum of four hundred and thirty five dollars be appropriated to the purchase of the following instruments for the school of Mathematics and civil engineering- a Theodolite- a levelling instrument, surveyors compass- Gunter's chain- a pair of levelling rods and a pair of measuring rods-The same to be purchased by the professor of Mathematics, & of which sum one half shall be paid out of the Funds of the University during the next year, and one half the year succeeding.

On motion by Mr. Mason

The Board of Visitors have considered the requests respectively preferred by the Philomathean and Washington Societies for the use of a hall for their respective Societies, to be assigned and appropriated to them within the precincts of the University; and whilst fully appreciating the benefits resulting both to the Students and the University from such literary associations and admitting, the propriety and advantage of having a separate hall appropriated to each, they are yet left only to regret that the present buildings at the University will not allow such accommodation, whilst the necessities of the University and the condition of the Finances, will not admit of the construction of additional buildings for such use.

4\. Resolved, that the foregoing be communicated by the Secretary to the Societies above named.

On motion of Mr. Mason.

5\. Resolved that the request of the Students through Mr. Jno. Washington Jr. to be permitted to illuminate the Lawn on the nights of the 27th & 28th June is granted by the Visitors,provided, that the same be done in such manner as, in the judgment of the Proctor will not endanger or deface the buildings; and that a copy of this resolution be communicated to the Students thro Mr. Washington.

The Board then adjourned till Tommorrow morning.

Joseph C. Cabell Rector

Thursday June 28th 1849. Present as yesterday the Board met pursuant to adjournment.

The following proceedings were had.

It being found expedient upon consultation and conference with the Chairman, the Proctor & Steward somewhat to modify the enagagements now subsisting with the latter, in relation to the Board &c of the State Students.

On motion by Mr. Mason

1\. Resolved, That from and after the commencement of the next session there shall be paid to the Steward in addition to the sum of two hundred dollars per annum (commutation of the "Dawson Farm) as directed by the resolution of the 29th June 1847, the further sum of $200 per annum as like commutation for the Farm attached to the Proctor's house and for the privilege of firewood heretofore allowed him- the Steward retaining only, and free of rent, the Proctor's house and the grounds thereto appertaining, except said last named Farm and the said Farm is hereby placed under the control and management of the Proctor, to be cultivated and improved by him for the benefit of the University.

2\. Resolved, that in consideration of the use of the house & grounds, and for the commutations above specified, the Stewward shall continue as heretofore to board and otherwise provide for the whole number of State Students at the price of $60 each per session to be paid by them, and in lieu of the resolutions of the 29th June 1846, and of the 10th resolution of the 29th June 1848, which are hereby repealed.

3.Resolved, That from and after the commencement of the next session it shall be the duty of the Proctor in assigning the Students to the Hotels in the manner required by the enactments so to arrange them as that such number of Students, other than State Students shall be assigned to the Steward, as will make the whole number, including the State Students, assigned to him, equal to the whole number of Students at each Hotel; and that each Student other than State so assigned to the Steward, shall pay for board &c, the same price now paid at the Hotels.

On motion by Mr. Mason.

4\. Resolved, That the Faculty be requested to consider the expediency of so modifying the monthly circular to Parents and Guardians as to embrace within the same the "scale of preparation" heretofore in use; or otherwise to modify the same in such manner as to convey information to the parents and guardians at Stated periods as to habits of diligence or otherwise of the Student, & report their opinion to the Board at its present session.

5\. Resolved that the manuscript of Mr. Jefferson belonging to the University, entitled "An essay, or introductory lecture towards facilitating instruction in the Anglo-Saxon and modern dialects of the English language, for the use of the University of Virginia", be printed under the superintendence of Professor Schele, for the use of the University.

That it be printed on good paper in quarto form, and in good style, and be bound in cloth, with its title as above set forth, lettered on the volume.

That should Professor Schele deem it expedient to annex a preface, or other explanatory matter to the volume, it is the opinion of the Visitors that the same should be in the simplest form of explanation of the text or its subject, and before publication be submitted to the Rector for his approval.

5\. Resolved That the sum of $200 be appropriated to defray the expense of the publication and that 400 copies be printed should the said sum of oney be adequate thereto; and that the books when ready, should be deposited in the Library in charge of the Librarian.

6\. Resolved that in the appointment of the State Students for the present should there be no applicant from any of the districts, or should no appointment be made from any district; then the Faculty shall have power to appoint from any other district should a fit applicant offer.

On motion by Mr. Hunter

7\. Resolved that the 5th Resolution of the Board of Visitors passed on June 29th. 1847, be so far modified as to allow the Proctor to reappoint for a year only, if he should see reason to do so, whose duty it shall be to make such a modification in the bonds or covenants now required of the Hotel Keepers as may be made necessary by this change as to the time for which the office is to be held. Provided, however, that the appointment shall be referred to the Board for confirmation as heretofore.

8\. Resolved that no manure made upon the premises of the University shall be carried from the premises;- provided however that the professors, hotel keepers, Steward & Proctor may use so much of the manure made upon their own premises as they may desire for their own gardens and lots.

Mr. Hunter from the committee to which was referred the propositions for new professorships, upon so much thereof as relates to the Chair of History & general literature reports the following resolutions:

9\. Resolved that another professorship viz: that of History and General Literature shall be established at the University of Virginia- In the school of History shall be taught the true objects and best methods of the study of History; the general course of human affairs with particular developments and illustrations of those epochs and events which have had most influence upon man; the effects of systems of religion and jurisprudence upon the moral and physical condition of the human race; the principles of historical criticism; the most authentic sources and best authorities to which the Student should be referred in pursuit of the various branches of History, Ethnography and the principles of chronology and the influences of diversities in race and climate upon the condition of man, and whatever pertains to the History of the general progress of human civilization.

In the school of general Literature shall be taught the history of the use and progress of General Literature, with particular developments and illustrations of those epochs and authors whose influence upon that progress has been most marked; the best methods & authors for the study of the literature of different languages with a development of the particular genius and character of each. But it shall be the especial object of this school to teach the rise and progress of English literature, to illustrate those stages in its growth which are most worthy of remark and to trace the effect of particular authors and great masters upon the growth of the English language and literature. In the school of general literature the Student shall be regularly exercised in English composition and the professor may invite any member of his class to deliver lectures or read essays upon such branches of literature or such authors as he may be likely to illustrate with credit to himself & the Institution: Provided however that nothing contained in this enactment shall be construed as to take from the chairs of moral philosophy, and Antient & Modern languages any of the subjects of instruction now confided to them.

10\. The fee for attending each of the Schools of History or general literature shall be fifteen dollars, and the provisions of the 8th paragraph, 3d Section, 2d Chapter & of 25th paragraph 4th Chapter of the enactments shall apply in all respects to this professorship as they do to the others. This professorship shall be placed on the same footing as the others in relation to the State Students.

11\. The number, time and plan of the lectures to be delivered by the professor of History and general literature shall be determined by the Faculty until the further order of the Board of Visitors.

12\. The professor of History shall be entitled to $1000 per annum to be paid out of the annuity in addition to the fees which he may receive from his pupils- It shall be the duty of the proctor under the direction of the Executive Committee to rent at a sum not exceeding $ — a house and lot for the use of this professor, who shall be thus accommodated until a suitable pavilion can be built at the University for his place of abode.

Mr. Randolph from the Committee to which was referred the propositions in relation to new professorships, upon so much of the matters referred as relates to the Medical department reports the following resolutions:

Whereas it is required by the 4th Section of the "act establishing the University of Virginia" that the science of Zoology "shall be taught in the said University", and whereas it appears that this requirement of its charter has never yet been fulfilled, but that an opportunity is now presented of executing the law and at the same time of perfecting the scheme of theoretical instruction in the Medical Department in conformity with a plan suggested in a memorial of the Medical professors be it therefore resolved:

13\. The professor of Anatomy and Physiology shall deliver a course of lectures to the Medical class on the general outlines of Zoology and comparative anatomy and in consideration of the expenditure of time and labor which will be requisite for the proper execution of this task he shall be relieved from the duty of teaching human anatomy. His title shall hereafter be "Professor of Comparative Anatomy, Physiology & Surgery".

14\. The Demonstrator of Anatomy shall be charged with the duty of instructing the medical class in special, surgical, and pathological Anatomy, by means of lectures & examinations in the same manner and according to the same regulations as are prescribed in the enactments for the government of the professors in the discharge of their duties as instructors of their respective classes. His title shall hereafter be "lecturer on special, surgical and pathological Anatomy and Demonstrator of Anatomy."

15\. He shall deliver three lectures a week until a complete course of lectures on special and Surgical Anatomy shall have been completed, & once a week thereafter on pathological Anatomy, unless in the opinion of the medical professors it should become expedient that he give instruction on that subject at an earlier period of the session.

16\. He shall receive a fee of $15, from every student attending his lectures, except the State Students and this compensation shall be in addition to the amount which he now recieves as Demonstrator of Anatomy. These services shall continue the same as heretofore, consisting in his daily attendance in the dissecting room from three to five O.Clock P. M. whenever the members of his class are carrying on dissections.

17\. The building known as the old Library shall be assigned to him as a place of residence until further action be taken by the Board, with this reservation however that he be required to vacate it a few days before any regular or extraordinary meeting of the Visitors who shall continue to hold the building subject to their orders for their own accommodation.

18\. Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the said department it shall be filled by appointment by the Board of Visitors in the same manner as the professors are appointed.

19\. Any student wishing to attend the lectures on Comparative Anatomy & Zoology without attending the other lectures in the school of comparative Anatomy and Surgery, shall be allowed to do so on the payment of a fee of $15.

After dinner Mr. Rives appeared & took his seat at the Board.

20\. Resolved that the Proctor's salary shall be $1500 per annum from this date exclusive of Clerk's hire; for which $200 are allowed as heretofore.

Mr. Mason from the Committee of finance submitted a report, accompanied by resolutions which were adopted.

REPORT.

The Committee on Finance to which has been referred the accounts of the Proctor and Bursar for the past scholastic year, having considered the same, as well as the prospective condition of the Finances of the University; report:

The income of the University from all its permanent sources including a balance in the Treasury on the 1st day of June 1848, as shewn by the Proctor's report, for the year ending on the 31st day of May 1849 was,

subject to appropriation for the ensuing scholastic year. These estimates your Committee believe are judiciously made.

The remaining debt of the University amounts for principal to the sum of $11,000 which your Committee recommends should be extinguished, as rapidly as the necessity for enlarged accommodation for Students, and the want of additional professorships will admit.

the accounts of these officers: whence this discrepancy arises your Committee are unable to trace.

The accounts of the proctor as required by the enactments have been examined and tested by a commissioner appointed for that purpose. Your Committee recommend, that the same commissioner be appointed to examine the accounts of the Bursar, with a view to ascertain whence said error arises & to correst the same.

They also recommend in pursuance of the suggestion of the Bursar contained in his letter to the Rector & Visitors accompanying his report, that hereafter the Commissioner who examines the accounts of the Proctor & patron shall annually examine those of the Bursar preparatory to their presentation to the Visitors at their stated meetings.

In reference to so much of the said letter of the Bursar as requests that his accounts for commissions on disbursements from the commencement of the Institution up to the present session may be examined with a view to adjust the said commissions, your Committee do not recommend that the request be complied with at the expense of the University- But should the Bursar desire said examination at his own charge, they see no objection to it. \*(See supplemental paper).

In conclusion your Committee recommend the adoption of the resolutions which follow

20\. Resolved, that the commissioner now appointed to examine the accounts of the Proctor and patron, do examine the accounts & vouchers of the Bursar for the year ending the 31st May 1849 with a view to ascertain & correct the apparent error in the respective accounts of the proctor & Bursar in reference to the balance in the treasury on the 31st May 1849, & that he be paid for such service as is now done for examination of the accounts of the proctor & patron.

21\. Resolved that hereafter it shall be the duty of the Commissioner who examines the accounts of the Proctor & patron to examine those of the Bursar annually before they are presented to the Rector and Visitors at each stated meeting in the manner directed by the 19th paragraph of the 2d. section of the enactments as far as the same may apply to be compensated as provided for in the 22d paragraph of the same section.

22\. Resolved that, should the Bursar desire it, proper access to his accounts & vouchers now on file at the University be given him, under the direction of the Chairman of the Faculty, with a view to an examination of his accounts for commission on his disbursements since he has held the office of Bursar, care being taken for the proper preservation of those papers, and provided that the University be subjected to no expense in such examination.

23\. Resolved that the proctor be required to keep a "property book" in which he shall keep a detail'd schedule of all the property of whatsoever kind belonging to the University, except real estate within the precincts & such apparatus, instruments &c, as belonging to the departments of professors may be in their special charge; and that he make report of such schedule at each stated meeting.

J. M. Mason

R. M. T. Hunter

24\. Resolved that the Proctor & Bursar do out of the funds of the University purchase, during the current year four of the bonds to Mrs. Martha Randolph due by the University in extinguishment of so much of the debt of the University, and make report to the next stated meeting.

Mr. Randolph from the Committee of Inspection made the following report

The committee of Inspection having discharged the duties assigned them beg leave to make the following report.

They find the Library, the apparatus of the professor of Chemistry and Natural Philosophy in fine condition corresponding with the inventories of the last year, with the additions made by the appropriations of the last session of the Board. They also found the anatomical Museum with the specimens, surgical instruments &c in satisfactory condition.

25\. Resolved that the executive Committee be directed forthwith to take the necessary steps to procure a full supply of water for the use of the University and as precaution against fire, & that $1,500 be appropriated for that purpose.

26\. Resolved that the digest of the course of instruction furnished by the different members of the Faculty be returned to them with the request that after making such amendations as they shall desire & a copy be furnished to the Rector to accompany his annual report.

27\. Resolved that the election of the Professor of History & General Literature shall be made at the next annual meeting of the Board of Visitors, and that the Chairman of the Faculty be directed to give notice of the Election for four months preceding by the usual advertisements which are made when a vacancy occurs in a professorship.

28\. Resolved that Doct: Gessner Harrison be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing year.

29\. Resolved that the Executive Committee be requested to present at the next regular meeting of the Board a plan for such an addition to the buildings of the University as may afford another Pavilion, a new edifice for ledture rooms & public examinations, and additional dormitories for students. The plan to be accompanied by an Estimate of the probable cost of the buildings proposed to be erected.

The Faculty having in reply to the resolution of the Board, communicated their resolution of this date, on the subject of the proposed modification of the monthly circular-It was on consideration

30\. Resolved that the said resolution of the Faculty be entered on the minutes of the Board and that the Faculty be requested to insert hereafter in the Circular the notice proposed in their said resolution.

Proceedings of the Faculty above referred to,

At a meeting of the Faculty June 28th 1849.

Resolved, that the Faculty are of opinion that it is inexpedient to return to the method formerly in use, of giving publicity to their numerical estimates of the relative progress made by the Students in the several classes. But that whenever information in relation to the diligence or progress of a Student shall be desired by the parent or Guardian such information shall be transmitted in each monthly circular.

Resolved that it would be expedient to insert in the monthly circular a notice that such information will be furnished when applied for. Copied from the minutes.

William Wertenbaker

Secty. of the Faculty

31\. Resolved, that the two rooms adjoining that occupied by the Washington Society in Hotel A be assigned to the Moot Court for their uses.

In accordance with the recommendations of the Faculty.

32\. Resolved, that the Faculty be authorised to give authority to Mr. John Roy Cabell of Pittsylvania to complete his examinations for graduation in Medicine at such time after the commencement of the next session as the Faculty may appoint; it being represented by them that Mr. Cabell was taken sick before his examination was completed.

33\. Resolved that the Faculty be further authorised to give authority to Mr. John T. Jones of Gloucester to complete his examinations for graduation in Medicine at such time after the commencement of the next session as the Faculty may appoint; It being represented by them that Mr. Jones was called home under the most urgent circumstances after standing a very satisfactory examinations in Anatomy and Surgery, and before he was examined in the other schools.

The Board then adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Joseph C. Cabell, Rector.

Friday June 29th 1849. The Board met pursuant to adjournment: Present as yesterday.

The following proceedings were had.

1\. Resolved that the proctor be directed, under the advice of the Executive Committee to cause such an addition or alteration to be made in the outhouse in Doct: Harrison's yard as to give him an additional room.

2\. Resolved, that Genl. Cocke, Mr. Randolph & Mr. Stevenson constitute the Executive Committee of this Board.

3\. Resolved that the Proctor shall be allowed to board a limited number of Students during the next session. But the number of Students shall not be greater than he now has and the places at which they lodge shall be the same as at the present session.

4\. Resolved, That the proctor shall erect or provide rooms in lieu of rooms now attached as offices to the pavilion No.7 under the advisement of the Executive Committee.

The Board then adjourned sine die.
