---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1852'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1852) June 25, 1852
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 25, 1852

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

21 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

The gross receipts during the Fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of June 1851, & ending on the 31st of May 1852, appear by the Proctors accounts to amount to

$47,744.87

The disbursments during the same period amount to

45,203.53

Leaving an unexpended balance

$ 2,541.34

$5,506.00

Unexpended Bal: on hand June 1st 1851

4,425.89

Proceeds of three negotiable notes drawn by the Proctor & discounted by the branch of the Farmers Bank of Charlottesville each for $3000; less discount

8,866.50

$18,798.39

Assuming that the attendance of students at the University at the next session will be as large as at the present, we infer that the same income will accrue from rents surplus fees &c Which is

$28,946.48

The unexpended balance on hand on the 1st June last

2,541.34

And the proceeds of the loan authorized by the Act of the Genl Assembly passed Feby 17. 1852, negotiated at par, or without premium added

25,000.00

Make the available means for the year

58,487.82

building now done but unpaid

$4,049.98

Estimated cost of unfinished work

14,500.00

Amount of three notes to be paid at the

9,000.00

Amount of order of Hudson & Lashbaugh accepted by the Proctor & payable Aug 21, 1852

$ 1,000.00

Salaries of Professors & others due 1st April & unpaid

1,475.00

Amount due George W. Spooner for purchase of land

2,170.00

$32,195.37

No 1 dated June 29th 1852, for

$5000

No 2 dated June 29th 1852, for

$5000

No 3 dated June 29th 1852, for

$5000

No 4 dated June 29th 1852, for

$1000

No 5 dated June 29th 1852, for

$1000

No 6 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 7 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 8 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 9 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 10 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 11 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 12 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

No 13 dated June 29th 1852 for

$1000

Making a total of being the amount authorized to be borrowed.

$25000

On Friday June 25th 1852 Mr. Randolph appeared, but no quorum being present, there was no meeting of the Board.

Saturday June 26th 1852

The following Visiters appeared and took their seats, to wit: Jos C. Cabell, Andrew Stevenson, Thomas J. Randolph, John Y. Mason, Henry A. Wise, Andrew McDonald, and Robert A. Thompson.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson, Jos C. Cabell was unanimously chosen Rector of the Board, who having assumed the chair returned his acknowledgments.

On motion of Mr. Stevenson, St G. Tucker was appointed Secretary.

Messrs Stevenson, Mason & Thompson were appointed a Committee of Finance, & Messrs Randolph, Wise, McDonald and Thompson were appointed a Committee of Inspection.

On motion of Mr. Mason the Reports of the Bursar & Proctor were referred to the Committee of Finance.

A communication was received from the Faculty relative to the erection of a parsonage within the precincts of the University-

On motion of Mr. Mason the same was referred to the Committee of Inspection, who subsequently by their chairman Mr. Randolph reported the following Preamble and resolutions which were agreed to-

The Commee of Inspection beg leave to report on the memorial of the Faculty relating to the erection on the University grounds of a parsonage for the accommodation of a Chaplain & his family, that they find the following extract from a report of Mr. Jefferson to the Directors of the Literary fund, of the 7th of October 1822.

\[In the same report of the Commissioners of 1818 it was stated by them that "in conformity with the principles of our consitution, which place all sects of religion on an equal footing with the jealousies of the different sects in guarding that equality from encroachment or surprise, & with the sentiments of the Legislature in favour of freedom of religion, manifested on former occasions they had not proposed that any professorships of Divinity should be established in the University; that provision however was made for giving instruction in the Hebrew, Greek & Latin languages, the depositories of the original, & of the earliest & most respected authorities of the faith of every sect, & for courses of ethical lectures developing those moral obligations in which all sects agree. That proceeding thus far without offence to the Constitution, they had left at this point to every sect to take into their own hands the office of further instruction in the peculiaf tenets of each."

It was not however to be understood that instructions in religious opinions and duties was meant to be precluded by the public authorities as indifferent to the interests of Society. On the contrary the relations which exist between Man & his Maker, and the duties resulting from those relations are the most interesting and important to every human being, and the most incumbent on his study and investigation. The want of instruction in the various creeds of religious faith existing among our citizens presents therefore a chasm in a general institution of the useful sciences. But it was thought that this want, and the entrustment to each society of instruction in its own doctrines were evils of less danger than a permission to the public authorities to dictate modes or principles of religious instruction, or than opportunities furnished them of giving countenance or ascendancy to any one sect over another. A remedy however has been suggested of promising aspect which while it excludes the public authorities from the domain of religious freedom would give to the sectarian schools of divinity the full benefit of the public provisions made for instruction in the other branches of science. These branches are equally necessary to the divine, as to the other professional or civil characters to enable them to fulfil the duties of their calling with understanding and usefulness. It has therefore been in contemplation and suggested by some pious individuals who perceive the advantages of associating other studies with those of religion to establish their religious schools on the confines of the University so as to give to their students ready & convenient access & attendance on the scientific lectures of the University. Such establishments would offer the further & great advantage of enabling the students of the University to attend religious exercises with the Professor of their particular sect, either in the rooms of the building still to be erected & destined to that purpose under impartial regulations, as proposed in the same report of the Commissioners, or in the lecturing room of such Professor. To such propositions the Visiters are disposed to lend a willing ear, and would think it their duty to give every encouragement by assuring to those who night choose such a location for their schools, that the regulations of the University should be so modified accommodated as to give every facility of access and attendance to their students with such regulated use also as may be permitted to the other students of the library which may hereafter be acquired by public or private munificence; but always understanding that these schools shall be independent of the University and of each other- Such an arrangement would complete the circle of the useful sciences embraced by this institution and would fill the Chasm now existing, on principles which would leave inviolate the constitutional freedom of religion, the most inalienable & sacred of all human rights, over which the people and authorities of this state individually and publicly, have ever manifested the most watchful jealousy; and could this jealousy be now alarmed in the opinion of the Legislature by what is here suggested, the idea will be relinquished on any surmise of disapprobation which they might think proper to express.\]

The Committee further report that on the 4th October 1824, the Board of Visiters agreed to the following resolutions

\[Should the religious sects of this State or any of them according to the invitation held out to them establish within or adjacent to the University, schools for instruction in the religion of their sect the students of the University will be free and expected to attend religious worship at the establishment of their respective sects in the morning and in time to meet their school in the University at its stated hour.

The students of such religious school if they attend any school of the University shall be considered as students of the University, subject to the same regulations & entitled to the same rights and privileges.\]

And on the 30th of June 1851, the Board of Visiters agreed to the following resolution

\[Resolved that permission is hereby granted to erect by voluntary contribution on such site upon the grounds of the University as the Executive Committee shall approve a house for the residence of the Chaplain biennially chosen by the Professors and supported by the Professors & students. Provided however that the house shall at all times be under the control of the Board of Visiters, and held as the property of the University.\]

By the 8th section of the Act establishing the University passed Jany 25th 1819 the board of Visiters "shall be capable in law and in trust for the University, of recieving subscriptions and donations real & personal as well from bodies corporate or persons associated as from privete individuals."

Looking to the views presented in the extract from Mr. Jefferson & to the powers of the Board of Visiters under the law defining their corporate capacity and to the present exigences of the University the Commee cannot report favourably upon the prayer of the President of the Faculty, & recommend its rejection. But desirous as the Board of Visiters & friends of the University are to promote religious instruction, and to encourage especially religious worship without connexion with any religious denomination or sect, the Commee recommend the repeal of the resolution of the Board of the 30th June 1851, & the adoption in lieu thereof of the following:

Resolved that the Professors of the University be authorized to open a subscription for donations to be received by the Board of Visiters in trust for the University for the erection of such houses as may be necessary for the religious worship of the Professors & Students on such sites upon the grounds of the University as the Executive Committee shall approve-

The following Communications were received, read, and referred to the Commee of Inspection viz:

A communication from the students relative to the the establishment of a gymnasium.

A communication from James R. Watson asking indemnity for certain outlays made by him in the erection of a building on his lot-

A communication from the Washington Society asking for an enlargement of their hall.

And a communication from the Hotel Keepers asking an increase of the rate of board.

On motion of Mr. Thompson the Board adjourned until Monday Morning at ten o'clock.

Monday Morning June 28th 1852

A communication was received from Mr. Volger, the Tutor in Modern Languages, asking for an additional dormitory-

Whereupon, On motion of Mr. Randolph the following preamble & resolution were adopted

Whereas it appears to the satisfaction of the Board that the passage between the Pavilions occupied by Dr. Cabell & Dr. Schelé is not now needed as a thoroughfare and that the Space thus lost may be advantageously appropriated as the site of a dormitory, it is hereby

Resolved that the Proctor be instructed to close this passage & to convert it into a dormitory with a door of communication between it & the dormitory occupied by Dr. Volger the Assistant Teacher in the School of Modern Languages for whose use it shall be assigned.

On motion of Mr. Mason,

Resolved that the provision for Assistant Instructors in the Schools of the Ancient Languages, Modern Languages & Mathematics be continued until the Board shall make further order on the subject.

Resolved further that the clause of the law making provision for the employment of Assistant Instructors which forbids them to board in the University be repealed.

A communication was received from Mr. D'Alfonce, the Teacher of gymnastics asking to be remunerated for money expended in the purchase and erection of his gymnasium, which was referred to the Committee of inspection -

A communication from Dr. Harrison, enclosing an account of advancements made by him for the addition to his Pavilion, and asking that the same be refunded, was referred to the Committee of inspection, who subsequently by their Chairman submitted the following report thereon, which was agreed to-

The Rector & Visiters are aware that alterations and additions have from time to time been made in the buildings of the University without previous authority, and regarding such alterations or additions however trivial and however conducive to convenience, as of mischievous tendency, take occasion to express in this form their disapproval of such unauthorized acts, and to urge on the Faculty, Executive Committee and the Officers of the University in future to observe a vigilant care to prevent any alteration of the buildings of the University, without proper authority being previously obtained, and entertaining these views, to make known that no bill for any such unauthorized alteration or addition can be allowed to be paid out of the funds of the University.

The Report of the Committee of the Faculty appointed to examine the supply of water of the University was received and referred to the Committee of Inspection.

A communication was received from the Parthenon Society asking additional accommodations, which was referred to the Commee on inspection -

The Committee subsequently reported a recommendation that the said communication, and a similar one from the Washington Society, be postponed until after the completion of the new building.

Mr. Randolph from the Commee of Inspection reported the following resolution, which was agreed to

Resolved that in consideration of the increased cost of supplies the price of board per session at the hotels of the University be increased to the sum of one hundred and ten dollars.

Mr. Randolph from the same Commee reported the petition of Jas. R. Watson asking indemnity for the expense incurred in the erection of a building on his lot, with a recommendation that the same be rejected - And the question being put on agreeing with the Committee in their report, was decided in the affirmative.

The Rector laid before the Board the following communication from the Chairman of the Faculty-

Gentlemen,

At a meeting of the Faculty held June 24th it was directed that the Chairman should represent to the Board of Visiters their wish that they might be allowed to examine Messrs A. M. Robertson, and T. J. Kennedy some time in the beginning of the next session for degrees in Medicine; those gentlemen having been prevented from standing the examinations the present session through sickness; The ground of this application is the very excellent character & known qualifications of these students

Very respectfully

Yr obt servt

Gessner Harrison

On motion of Mr. Randolph the request of the Faculty was granted.

A communication was received from the Faculty asking for the erection of a railing around the Chapel & Lecture Room of Nat: Philosophy.

On motion of Mr. Randolph the same was granted, and the Proctor was authorized & directed to execute the work-

A communication from the Faculty relative to the rent paid by Professors for the use of dormitories was postponed.

A communication was received from Professor Schelé asking that leave be granted to give a certificate of proficiency in the school of Modern history, taught by him

On motion of Mr. Wise the consideration thereof was postponed.

The Board took a recess until five o'clock PM.

Evening Session.

The Rector laid before the Board a communication from Professor Minor asking that a room be appropriated for the use of the Moot Court-

On motion of Mr. Wise the same was postponed-

The Report of the Committee of Finance was read as follows:

The Commee of Finance have examined the matters submitted to their consideration, and report as follows:

Alex Garrett resigned his office at the last Annual meeting of the Board of Visiters and William A. Bibb Esq was appointed, and entered on the duties of the office on the 1st day of July 1851; On the settlement of Mr Garretts accounts which were closed on the 30th of June 1851, there was an unexpended balance in his hands of $4010 46/100 which was transferred to his successor in office, and credited by him as a portion of his receipts

The Committee have found the Accounts of the Proctor and Bursar duly audited and examined by Wm Wertenbaker to whom that duty was entrusted, Mr James W. Saunders having declined the appointment of Commissioner conferred on him by the Board of Visiters

To ascertain the accruing revenues of the University for the past fiscal year, it is necessary to deduct from the amount of gross receipts above stated the following items of accounts

The surplus fees which accured during the preceding year & were paid over to the present Bursar after his appt.

This aggregate being deducted from the gross receipts leaves as the actual income of the University for the fiscal year ending May 31st 1852 $28,946.48. The disbursments were unusually large on account of the heavy expenditures on the new building. The Commee have examined a report of the Proctor on the subject, and an estimate of the unfinished work on the new building, furnished by the building Committee, and make a proximate statement of the probable receipts and disbursments of the current fiscal year, to end on the 31st of May 1853.

The liabilities for the same period may be stated as follows:

Amount due contractors for work on new

Farmers bank at Charlottesville

Leaving a balance of $24,292.45, applicable to the ordinary current disbursments of the University, including accruing interest on the debt to be contracted by the authorized loan Your Committee believe that the available funds will be sufficient for the purpose of meeting liabilities. There has been no effort to be precisely accurate in this conjectural estimate - there may be expected a receipt of $1261 from sale of furniture, also a premium on the bonds of the University to be sold- but there may be some unforseen expenditures.

These statements clearly evince the necessity of realizing the entire amount of the loan authorized by the Act of Assembly of the 17th of February last. This Act is substantially a transcript of the Act of March 7th 1827, under which a loan was negotiated by the University. As a means of giving greater value to the bonds of the University, for the loan now to be made, your Committee recommend that the form of the certificates of stock which was adopted by the board of Visiters on the 19th day of July 1827, be now adopted, to be signed by the rector, and countersigned by the Bursar- with the seal of the University attached - That the certificates so issued shall be numbered in succession, 1,2,3 &c- shall be made payable twenty five years after date, & bear an interest of six per cent per annum payable at the Treasury of the State of Virginia, semiannually on the 1st day of January and of July in each year-and that the said certificates shall be issued for such sums as the Rector may consider most easy of negotiation, not more than five thousand dollars, nor less than one thousand dollars the proceeds whereof when sold shall be placed in the hands of the Bursar - for the purposes for which the power to make said loan was asked and granted. And to give assurance of the punctual payment of the interest and the redemption of the principal of said certificates, it is recommended that the Board pledge the annuity of the University payable from the literary fund to those objects.

It is stated by the Proctor that two of the negotiable notes now held by the Farmers Bank at Charlottesville will fall due on the second day of July next, and as it is not probable that the loan can be negotiated in time to pay them, it is recommended that the Proctor be authorized to renew them for sixty days.

To carry out the recommendations herein made, the Committee report the following resolutions

Resolved that for the purpose of effecting a loan of twenty-five thousand dollars, as authorized by the act of the General Assembly passed on the 17th day of February 1852, there be created a stock for that sum bearing an interest of 6 per cent per annum, payable semi-annually at the Treasury of Virginia on the 1st day of January & of July in each year. That the certificates be signed by the Rector and countersigned by the Bursar for the payment of sums of not more than five thousand dollars, nor less than one thousand dollars, as the Rector shall think best payable twenty five years after date, and numbered in succession, 1,2,3 &c- And that the proceeds of said certificates after their sale under the direction of the Rector, shall be received by the Bursar, and applied to the payment of the debt contracted for the building now in course of erection.

Resolved that for the payment of the interest, and the redemption of the principal of the said certificates of stock, the Board hereby pledges the annuity of the University payable from the Literary fund.

Resolved that the certificates of debt to be issued under the foregoing resoultions shall be made payable to Wm S. Kemper Proctor of the University, and transferrible by his written assignment, endorsed on the back of each certificate respectively-

Resolved that the Proctor is hereby authorized to renew for sixty days the two notes for three thousand dollars each, discounted by the Farmers Bank at Charlottesville which fall due on the second day of July next.

June 28th 1852

Respectfully submitted

(Signed) Andrew Stevenson

J. Y. Mason

The question being put on the resolutions proposed, they were severally agreed to -

On motion of Mr. Mason,

Resolved that the agreement entered into between the Proctor and Mr McCoy be confirmed by the Board.

Mr Randolph from the Committee of Inspection made the following report on the subject of the Gymnasium to them referred, which was adopted by the board.

The Board of Visiters being sensible of the importance of gymnastic exercises for the physical development of youth have heard with pleasure that J. E. D'Alfonce proposes to give instruction on that subject, and hereby renew the permission formerly given for a site on the University grounds for a gymnasium, and are disposed to offer proper facilities subject to such future regulations or discomtinuance as they may deem expedient.

Resolved that the Proctor be authorized to receive a fee of ten dollars from each student desiring to receive instruction from him, and issue a ticket for the same, and that the Proctor pay to Mr D'Alfonce at the issue of the tickets one half of the sum paid for each ticket and the residue thereof at the end of the session.

Resolved that the sum of five hundred dollars be paid to J. E. D'Alfonce for the apparatus and appliances of his gymnasium for the uses of the University upon an inventory and appraisment therof being approved by the Proctor and deposited with him, and that the said apparatus and appliances be subject to the use of the said D'Alfonce in instructing students in gymnastics, and if requiring repair while in his use to be repaired at his expence.

On motion of Mr Mason,

Resolved that the Board approve the terms of the agreement made between George W. Spooner & Wm S. Kemper Proctor of the University, acting on behalf of the Rector & Visiters dated the 10th day of July 1851, which agreement was communicated by the Proctor with his report of the twenty fifth inst, and hereby direct that the said agreement be carried into effect by the execution of proper deeds of release & conveyance as required by the terms of said agreement, to be prepared by legal counsel to be designated by the Executive Committee, and the deeds approved by said Committee, but in no event is any payment of the purchase money to be made until the lien held by the College of William and Mary shall have been released.

Resolved that when the title shall have been made as required in the foregoing resolution, the Proctor is hereby authorized to carry out his agreement with Jesse S. Maury and in behalf of the Rector & Visiters of the University to convey to him the quantity of land which in said report said Proctor reports that he has agreed to sell to him.

Mr. Randolph from the Committee of Inspection submitted the following report on the subject of the supply of water to the University, which report was agreed to-

The Committee to whom was referred the letter of the Faculty in relation to an adequate supply of water to the University beg leave to report that in addition to the three old cisterns, three new ones have been added within the last year. The drought which has prevailed for the last 18 months has so diminished the supply of water at and around the University, as to cause an occasional demand for cistern water, and they have not proved adequate to the supply.

Resolved therefore that the Proctor be required to cause additional cisterns to be constructed upon different points on the grounds in vicinity of the buildings and that the plan of the Hydraulic Ram proposed by the Faculty as a means of furnishing the necessary supply of water be referred to the Executive Committee to take such action in conformity thereto as they may deem expedient.

A communication from Mr Mills relative to the delay in the completion of the new building, was received, read, and ordered to be filed.

Wm J. Robertson is appointed Commissioner to take and settle the accounts of the Bursar and Proctor for the current fiscal year.

On motion of Mr Mason the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.

Tuesday Morning June 29th 1852

The Rector laid before the Board a petition from Addison Maupin asking leave to erect on certain terms a small brick cottage in the rear of the house now occupied by him

On motion of Mr Mason

Ordered that the said Petition be referred to the Executive Committee with authority to grant the permission asked, if they deem it advisable and if granted that they attach such conditions as shall seem to them to be just and proper.

Ordered that Dr Harrison be appointed Chairman of the Faculty for the ensuing session-

The Rector appointed Messrs Stevenson, Randolph & Mason as the Executive Committee for the ensuing year.

On motion of Mr wise

Resolved that the Faculty be authorized to open subscriptions for private donation to be received by the Board of Visiters in trust for the University, for the erection of buildings necessary to the uses of a Temperance Hall on such site of the University grounds as may be selected, & on such plan as may be approved by the Executive Committee.

On motion of Mr Wise

Ordered that the Proctor shall procure light and fuel for the Lecture Rooms, furnishing it as far as practicable & economical in wood from the University grounds if wood be used, and that he defray the expense of both lights & fuel for the purpose mentioned from the funds arising from supplus fees, and that he keep a separate account thereof, & report the same to the Board.

The hour for the usual exercises of the commencement day having arrived the Board repaired to the Library and after witnessing the ceremonies, returned to their hall, when the following further proceedings were had

The bonds for the negotiation of a loan authorized by the General Assembly at its last session were prepared in the following form to wit:

The Rector & Visiters of the University of Virginia owe to Wm S Kemper Proctor, the sum of one thousand dollars for value received pursuant to an act of the General Assembly passed on the 17th day of February 1852, entitled "An Act authorizing the Rector and Visiters of the University to borrow money for certain purposes" which sum they promise and oblige themselves and their successors to pay or cause to be paid to the said Kemper Proctor as aforesaid, or to his assigns at the expiration of twenty five years from this date at the Treasury of the State of Virginia, together with six per centum per annum interest thereon, payable at the same place on the first day of January and the first day of July in each year.

In testimony whereof we the Rector & Bursar of the said University, acting under a resolution of the Board passed the 28th day of June, one thousand eight hundred and fifty two have hereunto set our hands and caused the seal of the University to be affixed this 29th day of June one thousand eight hundred & fifty two.

(Signed) Jos C. Cabell Rector

Countersigned Wm A. Bibb. B.U.V.

Whereupon the Rector and Bursar proceeded in the presence of the Board to sign the said bonds as follows to wit:

Mr Mason proposed the following order which was adopted

It being probable that the rooms in the new building will be finished before the next annual meeting of the board, and it will be desirable in finishing the rooms to adapt them in some particulars to the purposes to which they are to be applied,

Ordered that the sub basement rooms be appropriated to the use of the schools of Chemistry & Materia Medica- The North basement room to the School of Natural Philosophy, and that the other rooms in the new building as they approach completion shall be assigned to such of the other schools as the Executive Committee may direct; and that the said Committee also designate the respective schools to which they will appropriate such of the rooms of the University as may be vacated in executing this order-

On motion of Mr Mason, a building Committee was appointed consisting of Messrs Stevenson & Randolph-

On motion of Mr Thompson the Board adjourned sine die.
