---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1858'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1858) March 10, 1858
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 10, 1858

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

22 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

SPECIAL MEETING.Special Meeting
-------------------------------

In pursuance of a call by the Rector, the Board of Visitors met today at 2 oclock P.M. present T.J. Randolph, Rector, J. R. Edmunds, J. B. Baldwin, M.R.H. Garnett, Wm. J. Robertson and James Neeson, Wm. J. Joynes, Visitors when the following proceedings were had.

Mr. Robertson laid before the Board the following communication to wit

I feel it to be due to myself, and to you, my associates in the Board of Visitors, to lay before you, at this my earliest opportunity, the accompanying correspondence which has recently taken place between Professor Harrison and myself. I present copies only, holding the originals, so far as in my possession, subject to the call of the Board. It will be seen that the subject of this correspondence is a letter written by Professor Harrison to Alexander Rives Esqr. Senator from Albemarle County, in the Virginia Legislature.

It appears from the last note of Professor Harrison that a copy of the letter in question will be forthcoming if called for by the Board of Visitors; and it only remains for me, in advance of its production, to state the reasons which induced me to call upon him for it; and which in my judgment, require that it shall now be called for by the Board.

In my opinion, formed from twice reading the letter carefully, it contains most serious charges and imputations upon the personal integrity and honor of a majority of the members of the Board of Visitors (without specifying by name which of them are intended) in reference to their official conduct, in transactions with Professor Harrison.

If I am right in my construction of the letter, the propriety of calling for its production would seem to be unquestionable. If I have mistaken its meaning, Professor Harrison ought to be glad of the opportunity to correct my error, by exhibiting it to the Board.

As to the protection claimed for private correspondence, my views have already been expressed in a letter to Professor Harrison, a copy of which I have laid before you.

While I can by no means admit that private correspondence, once become public, is entitled to the immunity due to its original character, I deem it proper to say that this letter in question not only did not profess to be confidential but on the contrary was evidently intended to be used as a means of influencing the action of a public body: and it was so used by the gentleman to whom it was addressed - having before I even heard of its existence, been shown or read to several members of the Legislature, without any injunction of confidence, or precaution used to ensure secrecy.

I infer too from the letter itself, that a duplicate of it was addressed to a western member of the legislature for the purpose of being used among the delegates from that portion of the state.

The letter to Mr Rives was shown to me by one of the members of the Legislature; and it is hardly necessary for me to say that it was without any obligation of confidence respecting it, either express or implied. Besides all this, Professor Harrison has thought fit in his letter to me to volunteer a reaffirmation of the contents of this letter; and to say that there is nothing in it he wishes to retract "if fairly understood". That it may be "fairly understood" by the Board, it is necessary that the letter should be laid before them.

For these, among other reasons, I feel bound, upon my responsibility as a Visitor, and a gentleman, to ask that the Board of Visitors will call upon Professor Harrison to produce the letter, for their inspection and consideration.

Whereupon Col Randolph by authority of Professor Harrison presented the following letter to him to wit

Having understood that a letter written by me to Alex Rives Esqr and designed to be private, had given offence to some members of the Board of Visitors, I wrote to a friend a note, which he was authorized and directed to show to Mr Edmunds, then in Richmond. The object of that note, as set forth in the note itself, was to do what I considered only right and just to do, by disclaiming any purpose to give by the letter referred to any offence to any member of the Board of Visitors or in any way to impugn the motives which may have prompted their action. Regretting as I do, that any expression should have been used by me that was susceptible of such construction. I avail myself of the opportunity afforded by your request to repeat to you directly what I said to him through a friend and to authorize you to make such use of it as may be consistent with the only purpose and end of the explanation now given.

Upon consideration whereof it was

Resolved 1. That the letter of Prof. Harrison to Col Randolph is satisfactory to the Board.

2\. That in view of this letter the Board, while approving the action of Mr. Robertson in bringing to its notice the letter of Prof. Harrison to Mr. Rives, seen by Mr. Robertson and by him deemed offensive, consider it unnecessary to make the call on Prof. Harrison suggested.

3\. Resolved, further, that the Secretary communicate a copy of the proceedings to Alexander Rives Esqr with a request that he will show it to those gentlemen who have seen Prof Harrison's letter to Mr. Rives, but to no others.

The board then adjourned until tomorrow morning 9 oclock.

Thursday March 11th 1858

The Board met pursuant to adjournment present the same gentlemen as on yesterday when the following proceed- ings were had.

Mr. Garnett submitted the following.

The Board has inspected the Proctors reports and finds that they have not been made weekly, and are unsatisfactory in other respects, It therefore calls the attention of the Chariman of the Faculty to the former order that such Reports should be made weekly in all parts of the session, and that the Proctor is required to make the inspection of all the dormitories and of all the Hotels without exception weekly. The faculty is especially requested to insist rigidly upon a full performance of the Proctors police duties, and to impose upon each failure, such fines, as the regulations allow, unless specially remitted for good cause particularly stated in writing.

On motion of Mr. Joynes it was

Resolved that the members of the Faculty be requested to attend the Board this evening for the purpose of a conference as to the health of the University, and the course which ought to be pursued by the Board in relation to it.

The Executive Committee reported that on the 5th day of September last they appointed Anselem Brock Hotel Keeper in place of Addison Maupin, whose office was vacated by his refusal to execute bond as required by the resolution of the Board, & Mrs. Sally A McCoy as Keeper of the Hotel to which J.S. Dix had been appointed & had declined to accept; both of said appointments being made to continue until the next annual meeting of the Board-

It is ordered that the Proctor advertise that the Board of Visitors, at their next annual meeting will proceed to make permanent appointments of Keepers of both of said Hotels, and to invite applications to fill the vacancies

The Board then adjourned until tomorrow morning at 9 oclock.

Friday March 12th, 1858

The Board met pursuant to adjournment, present the same gentlemen as on yesterday, when the following proceedings were had.

Mr. Robertson offered the following resolution which was adopted.

Resolved that the medical faculty be severally requested to state in writing, whether in their opinion it is necessary or proper to take any measures in addition to those already recommended by themselves and by the Faculty for the purpose of ensuring the health of the University.

The following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted.

The Medical Faculty having expressed the opinion that the rooms on the ranges cannot be longer occupied with safety, and recommended that they be vacated, and the whole Faculty having expressed their concurrence in that opinion and recommendation and the Board from their own personal inspection of the premises, and from a consideration of all the facts brought to their knowledge concurring in the same views, therefore.

1\. Resolved that the Faculty take immediate measures to provide accommodations elsewhere for all the students now occupying rooms upon the ranges, and that they require all students to remove as soon as practicable from the range rooms, and that these rooms remain vacant during the remainder of the session.

2\. Resolved that the additional expenses necessarily incurred by the Students in consequence of the measure required by the foregoing resolution, be paid by the University on the order of the Faculty.

3\. That in giving these instructions as to these rooms on the ranges only, the Board is guided by the opinion of the medical faculty , that as to those rooms only such a step is necessary. If therefore at any time the medical Faculty shall find it proper to extend the same operation to other rooms, the Faculty are authorized and instructed so to extend it.

4\. Resolved That the Faculty be earnestly instructed to cause a thorough investigation to be made without delay into the condition of all rooms occupied by students whether within or without the precincts, and to act in reference to them all, under the advice of the Medical Faculty, according to the principles declared in the foregoing resolutions.

5\. Resolved That the Medical Faculty be authorized and instructed to provide at the expense of the University for the efficient nursing dieting and attendance of sick students in all cases in which they may deem it necessary until the completion of the infirmary now in progrees.

Resolved that the foregoing resolutions be communicated to the Faculty of the University for the purpose of interchanging any explanations or communications deemed necessary for a full understanding of their import and design.

The Rector laid before the Board memorials signed by a portion of the students asking a suspension of lectures in view of the health of the University, upon consideration whereof it was unanimously

Resolved That the Board upon the most earnest and careful consideration of the said memorials and of the entire subject to which they refer, and upon the fullest conference with the medical Faculty; are of opinion that the measures adopted at the present meeting are amply sufficient to protect the students against any danger of disease and recognizing as they do the highest moral obligation not to subject the students to any, even the least risk of health, the Board are unanimously of opinion that it is unnecessary and inexpedient to suspend the lectures.

Resolved That in view of one of the resolutions of the Faculty presented to the Board this day, the Board think it proper to call the attention of the Faculty and especially of the Chairman to the 2nd and 3rd clauses of section 1 of chapter 1 of the printed enactments and express the opinion that the provisions contained therein are ample to declare and secure the entire subordiantion of the Proctor and other officers to the chairman of the Faculty, and the responsibility of the chairman for the faithful execution of all laws made for the government of the University - and that it has not been the purpose of the Board or of the Executive Committee in giving orders directly to the Proctor or other officers to impair the responsibility of these officers to the chairman, or his authority and control over them, or his responsibility to the Board for the fidelity of these officers in the execution of these duties.

2\. Resolved that in order to avoid any supposed interference with the authority or responsibility of the chairman as established by the enactments referred to, hereafter all orders to the Proctor or other subordinate officer whether made by the Board or the Executive Committee shall be transmitted also to the chairman in order that he may see to the faithful execution of such orders.

Mr. Garnett submitted the following resolutions which were unanimously adopted.

1\. Resolved that the grounds within the University shall be thoroughly and permanently drained on a plan to be approved by the Executive Committee.

2\. The basements of all the rooms on the Ranges shall be examined and arrangements made for thorough and permanent ventilation and such other provisions for health as the Executive Committee may on consultation with the Medical Faculty deem proper.

3\. A similar examination shall be made of all other rooms, and the Executive Committee is authorized to adopt such sanitary measures in regard to them or the University generally, as they may think expedient.

4\. No cattle horses or hogs shall be kept within the walls of the University.

5\. The entire grounds and cellars shall without delay be thoroughly cleaned and purified. They shall afterwards be inspected daily, and shall always be kept clean and pure.

6\. The Executive Committee shall have authority to employ such special agents and laborers for the residue of the session as they may think necessary to execute the sanitary measures prescribed; but nothing herein contained shall be construed to relieve any of the University officers from their regular duties, except so far as expressly ordered by the executive Committee.

7\. A select committee of Mrs Garnett Edmunds and Baldwin shall be appointed to report a plan for the reorganization of the Proctors duties and their division between two officers, one of whom shall execute all police duties.

Mr Neeson offered the following resolution.

Resolved that the Chairman of the Faculty be requested to communicate to the parent or guardian of each student a statement of the health of the University as disclosed by the Report of the medical Faculty, fully and distinctly showing the origin progress results and present condition of the epidemic, together with the resolutions of the Board for the promotion of the health and relief of the students passed at this meeting.

Whereupon Mr Faldwin offered the following substitute which was adopted.

1\. Resolved that the Secretary furnish to the chairman of the Faculty copies of the resolutions for the removal of of the students from the ranges and of that in response to the memorial of the students for a suspension of lectures and that the chairman cause a copy of those resolutions to be communicated to the parent or guardian of the student.

2\. Resolved that the chairman at the same time inform the parents and guardians that having thus provided for the removal of all students from those portions of the University as to which there exists any apprehension of a return of the disease and having made provision for an immediate and thorough draining ventilation and purification of the entire University, the Visitors feel warranted in expressing a strong hope and confidence that the disease which has prevailed at the University but which has now almost entirely disappeared will not again return.

Mr. Edmunds offered the following resolution which was adopted.

In case the medical Professors of the Faculty shall advise the removal of a student from any out-boarding house in consequence of the danger to the health of the student the Faculty are hereby instructed to provide proper accommodations for the students in conformity with the resolution in relation to students residing on the ranges reserving for future consideration any questions arising from such removal.

On motion of Mr. Robertson it was

Resolved that a Department of Practical Chemistry be organized upon the terms set forth in the following plan, proposed by Professor Maupin Cabell and Davis - to take effect at the commencement of the next session.

Plan of Organization            of a department of Practical Chemistry, as concurred in by Professors Maupin Cabell and Davis.

1\. A department of Practical Chemistry shall be established in connexion with the school of Chemistry

2\. In this department shall be taught a systematic course of qualitative & quantitative analysis, and the applications of Chemistry to the arts.

3\. To be admitted to the instruction in the department of practical Chemistry, the student must be a member of the school of Chemistry, or must have previously attended a course of instruction in Elementary Chemistry, either in this institution or elsewhere; and if elsewhere he must furnish to the professor by examination or otherwise satisfactory evidence that he is qualified to enter upon the study of practical chemistry with advantage.

4\. The Laboratory shall be kept open, and the instructor shall give his personal attention to the students therein from 9 oclock A. M. to 5 oclock P. M. for five days in the week throughout the session.

5\. The fee for instruction in practical Chemistry for five days in the week shall be $40; for four days $30 for three days $25; and for any less time $20 per session. Each student shall also be required to make a special contingent deposit of $10 which shall be chargeable with the cost of chemicals and other incidental expenses, according to the following plan. The Assistant Instructor shall be required to keep an inventory of the costs of all the Chemicals used during the session and to apportion the same among the several students in proportion to the number of days they may have been respectively engaged in receiving practical instruction in the Laboratory; excert that a separate charge shall be made against each student for the amount of the solutions of Gold silver and platina he may have used. He shall be further charged with the cost of such articles of glass or apparatus as he may injure or destroy in using.

6\. The receipts from the foregoing contingent charges shall be expended under the direction of the Professor of Chemistry in the purchase of chemicals & apparatus as the wants of the department may require.

7\. The Faculty shall have power for satisfactory reasons to allow a student to matriculate in the department of practical chemistry alone, upon condition however of his paying a tuition fee of $50 and a Laboratory fee of $20 and of his being subject to the special charges enumerated in the foregoing enactments.

8\. A student matriculating in the school of chemistry and also in the department of practical chemistry shall pay a fee in no case exceeding $30 for the former and the specific fees for the latter; but the fees paid for practical chemistry shall not be considered in adjusting the fees to be paid for attending any of the other schools of the University.

9\. The Professor of Chemistry, with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee shall have the power of appointing an Assistant Instructor to whom may be assigned the duty of giving instruction in the department of practical Chemistry.

10\. The Assistant Instructor shall receive a stated salary of $700 per session, and the fees of tuition in the department of Practical Chemistry to an amount not exceeding $500. He shall also be entitled to the use of a Dormitory and the use of the Library free of charge.

11\. The course of instruction and the requirements for graduation in the school of Chemistry shall remain as heretofore

12\. Such Students as give evidence of satisfactory skill and attainments in Practical Chemistry shall be entitled to a certificate of proficiency in the same under the seal of the University.

Resolved that the Secretary furnish to Mr Edmunds a copy of all the resolutions and proceedings of the present meeting relating to the subject of the health of the University including the report of the Medical Faculty and that Mr Edmunds be authorized and requested to lay the same before the General Assembly.

Resolved that Mr. Edmunds be requested to communicate to the General Assembly now in session the earnest and unanimous conviction entertained by the Board of Visitors that at no time in the history of the University has there been a crisis in its affairs so imperatively demanding the promt assistance and support of the General Assembly and that the Board of Visitors feel bound by the highest obligations of public duty to urge upon the Legislature the passage of the bill now pending before it for making an appropriation to the University.

On motion of Mr Edmunds it was resolved that the executrix of Fabius M Lawson having communicated that a debt from the University to the decd was now due & demandable, The Executive Committee is instructed to pay the same upon demand provided the University is under obligation to do so.

On motion of Mr Robertson it was

Resolved that the purchases made at the sale of Mr. Stevenson's estate by Professor Gildensleeve for the University are approved and that the sum of $73 with interest thereon from the time when the same was paid be refunded to him out of the Library fund.

Th. J. Ranolph Rector

R. T. W. Duke Secretary

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, having been called to meet at the University this day by the request of three of the members viz Messrs Edmunds Tucker and Robertson, the following gentlemen appeared: T. J. Randolph Rector, J. R. Edmunds J. B. Baldwin W. T. Joynes and J. R. Tucker visitors When the following proceedings were had.

Mr. Joynes offered the following preamble and resolutions which were adopted.

The Board having convened this day in consequence of representations that there had been since their last meeting a material change in the health of the University, and in the views and opinions of the Faculty and Students, as to the course which ought to be adopted in reference thereto, held a conference on these subjects with the members of the Faculty and also with committees of the students representing those in favor of a suspension of the lectures and also those opposed to that course; and the Board having ascertained that there has been an increase of disease among the students since the late meeting of the Board, and that an apprehension prevails among a large majority of the students that the disease will still further increase hereafter, and that the existence of this state of feeling has already caused many of the students to leave the University, and will probably cause many others to leave, and believing that strong grounds exist to justify this apprehension; and the Faculty in their conference with the Board, and in their resolutions subsequently adopted, having in view of the recent changes in the health of the University and of the apprehended increase of disease, and in view also of the state of feeling among the students and of its actual and probable influence upon their studies and progress, having recommended a suspension of the lectures until the 1st day of May and a prolongation of the session until the 29th of July.

1\. Therefore Resolved that the Board concurring with the Faculty in the views expressed by them, direct that the Lectures in the University be suspended from this day until the 1st day of May next, and that the Session be prolonged therefrom until the 29th day of July next.

2\. Resolved that during the suspension of lectures directed by the foregoing resolutions the Faculty require all students as promptly as possible to vacate all the dormitories within the University.

3\. Resolved that so much of a resolution adopted by the Board at its last meeting as prohibits the reoccupation of any of the rooms on the ranges at any future time during this session be rescinded - and that it be referred to the executive committee to authorize the occupation of these rooms, or any others in the University as they think proper.

4\. Resolved that the next meeting of the Board be held on the 27th day of July next.

Resolved that the Secretary furnish to the chairman of the Faculty a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolutions and that the chairman cause a copy of the same to be communicated to the parent or guardian of each student.

The following is a copy of the communication from the Faculty referred to in the forgoing preamble and resolutions

"The Faculty having maturely considered the subjects referred to them by the Board of Visitors respectfully submit the following statement of their views.

1\. The amount and character of the sickness which until a few days ago prevailed and seemed likely to prevail in the University, did not appear to the Faculty to justify or require a suspension of the Lectures, but within a few days circumstances have occurred, which have shaken the previous convictions of all and wrought a complete change in the minds of some of the members in respect to what their duty obliges them, in this aspect of the matter to recommend. The Medical Members of the Faculty having now expressed the apprehension that the Health of the students may be endangered by their longer continuance here at present, the remaining members of the body, in view of this fact, unite in advising a suspension of the Lectures on this ground.

But besides these grave apprehensions, so universal an alarm pervades the whole body of students, which the extreme illness of two of their number and the reported indisposition of many who remain here, and of several who have gone home, augment, and so many have left the University, and express an intention to leave it, that the Faculty are convinced, that there is no reasonable probability of restoring confidence, and of quieting the agitation, which now for several days has prevented an effective application to their studies.

These reasons, of which those last stated operate very potently on most of its members, constrain the Faculty reluctantly yet decidedly to the opinion, that no alternative remains but to suspend for a time sufficiently long to afford ground to hope that the local causes of diseases may be removed and the tendency to come under their influence obviated by reaction \[?\] and change of scene.

2\. A corresponding prolongation of the session the Faculty believe to be required by the established policy of the University from which it ought not to depart, of conferring degrees as testimonials of actual acquirements. To abate any considerable part of the attainments ordinarily required would be unjust to the public, which has learned to confide in the diplomas of the University, unjust to past and future recipients of such certificates of merit, and unjust to the true interests of the young men, who are now candidates for the honors of the institution.

3\. As to the period of suspension, the Faculty are necessarily principally guided by the opinion of the medical men belonging to it, and they think, with the lights at present before them, that it should not be less, and need not be more than 6 weeks, say to the 1st of May. They submit, however, that it would be expedient to confer on the Faculty power to extend the period, should circumstances seem to require it.

4\. As to the time for which the session should be prolonged the Faculty are of opinion, that it would not be expedient to extend it into August, on account of the heat which usually prevails at that season, and the languor thence arising.

5\. The Faculty beg leave also to submit it as their opinion that no student should be permitted to reside, during the suspension within the limits of the University, and that their continuance in the neighborhood should be as far as possible discouraged, considerations of health and morality alike concur to recommend this course.

6\. They also submit for the consideration of the Board, without venturing now positively "to recommend it, the expediency when the exercises are resumed, of forbidding more than one student to occupy any room within the University."

On motion of Col. Randolph the following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved that in consequence of the inadequate and unsuitable accommodations for a large number of the students at the University and the present state of the health of its inmates - it is deemed expedient at the regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors to take into consideration the necessity of limiting the number of students to be hereafter admitted to matriculate.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what number of students can be suitably and comfortably accommodated in the present buildings within and without the precincts and report the same to the next regular annual meeting of the board.

The Board then adjourned until the 27th day of July next.

In pursuance of the adjourning order of 19th of March. The Rector appeared and remained at the University two days but no other members of the board having been in attendance there was no meeting.

I feel it to be due to myself, and to you, my associates in the Board of Visitors, to lay before you, at this my earliest opportunity, the accompanying correspondence which has recently taken place between Professor Harrison and myself. I present copies only, holding the originals, so far as in my possession, subject to the call of the Board. It will be seen that the subject of this correspondence is a letter written by Professor Harrison to Alexander Rives Esqr. Senator from Albemarle County, in the Virginia Legislature.

It appears from the last note of Professor Harrison that a copy of the letter in question will be forthcoming if called for by the Board of Visitors; and it only remains for me, in advance of its production, to state the reasons which induced me to call upon him for it; and which in my judgment, require that it shall now be called for by the Board.

In my opinion, formed from twice reading the letter carefully, it contains most serious charges and imputations upon the personal integrity and honor of a majority of the members of the Board of Visitors (without specifying by name which of them are intended) in reference to their official conduct, in transactions with Professor Harrison.

If I am right in my construction of the letter, the propriety of calling for its production would seem to be unquestionable. If I have mistaken its meaning, Professor Harrison ought to be glad of the opportunity to correct my error, by exhibiting it to the Board.

As to the protection claimed for private correspondence, my views have already been expressed in a letter to Professor Harrison, a copy of which I have laid before you.

While I can by no means admit that private correspondence, once become public, is entitled to the immunity due to its original character, I deem it proper to say that this letter in question not only did not profess to be confidential but on the contrary was evidently intended to be used as a means of influencing the action of a public body: and it was so used by the gentleman to whom it was addressed - having before I even heard of its existence, been shown or read to several members of the Legislature, without any injunction of confidence, or precaution used to ensure secrecy.

I infer too from the letter itself, that a duplicate of it was addressed to a western member of the legislature for the purpose of being used among the delegates from that portion of the state.

The letter to Mr Rives was shown to me by one of the members of the Legislature; and it is hardly necessary for me to say that it was without any obligation of confidence respecting it, either express or implied. Besides all this, Professor Harrison has thought fit in his letter to me to volunteer a reaffirmation of the contents of this letter; and to say that there is nothing in it he wishes to retract "if fairly understood". That it may be "fairly understood" by the Board, it is necessary that the letter should be laid before them.

For these, among other reasons, I feel bound, upon my responsibility as a Visitor, and a gentleman, to ask that the Board of Visitors will call upon Professor Harrison to produce the letter, for their inspection and consideration.

Having understood that a letter written by me to Alex Rives Esqr and designed to be private, had given offence to some members of the Board of Visitors, I wrote to a friend a note, which he was authorized and directed to show to Mr Edmunds, then in Richmond. The object of that note, as set forth in the note itself, was to do what I considered only right and just to do, by disclaiming any purpose to give by the letter referred to any offence to any member of the Board of Visitors or in any way to impugn the motives which may have prompted their action. Regretting as I do, that any expression should have been used by me that was susceptible of such construction. I avail myself of the opportunity afforded by your request to repeat to you directly what I said to him through a friend and to authorize you to make such use of it as may be consistent with the only purpose and end of the explanation now given.

Special Meeting
---------------

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, having been called to meet at the University this day by the request of three of the members viz Messrs Edmunds Tucker and Robertson, the following gentlemen appeared: T. J. Randolph Rector, J. R. Edmunds J. B. Baldwin W. T. Joynes and J. R. Tucker visitors When the following proceedings were had.

Mr. Joynes offered the following preamble and resolutions which were adopted.

The Board having convened this day in consequence of representations that there had been since their last meeting a material change in the health of the University, and in the views and opinions of the Faculty and Students, as to the course which ought to be adopted in reference thereto, held a conference on these subjects with the members of the Faculty and also with committees of the students representing those in favor of a suspension of the lectures and also those opposed to that course; and the Board having ascertained that there has been an increase of disease among the students since the late meeting of the Board, and that an apprehension prevails among a large majority of the students that the disease will still further increase hereafter, and that the existence of this state of feeling has already caused many of the students to leave the University, and will probably cause many others to leave, and believing that strong grounds exist to justify this apprehension; and the Faculty in their conference with the Board, and in their resolutions subsequently adopted, having in view of the recent changes in the health of the University and of the apprehended increase of disease, and in view also of the state of feeling among the students and of its actual and probable influence upon their studies and progress, having recommended a suspension of the lectures until the 1st day of May and a prolongation of the session until the 29th of July.

1\. Therefore Resolved that the Board concurring with the Faculty in the views expressed by them, direct that the Lectures in the University be suspended from this day until the 1st day of May next, and that the Session be prolonged therefrom until the 29th day of July next.

2\. Resolved that during the suspension of lectures directed by the foregoing resolutions the Faculty require all students as promptly as possible to vacate all the dormitories within the University.

3\. Resolved that so much of a resolution adopted by the Board at its last meeting as prohibits the reoccupation of any of the rooms on the ranges at any future time during this session be rescinded - and that it be referred to the executive committee to authorize the occupation of these rooms, or any others in the University as they think proper.

4\. Resolved that the next meeting of the Board be held on the 27th day of July next.

Resolved that the Secretary furnish to the chairman of the Faculty a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolutions and that the chairman cause a copy of the same to be communicated to the parent or guardian of each student.

The following is a copy of the communication from the Faculty referred to in the forgoing preamble and resolutions

"The Faculty having maturely considered the subjects referred to them by the Board of Visitors respectfully submit the following statement of their views.

1\. The amount and character of the sickness which until a few days ago prevailed and seemed likely to prevail in the University, did not appear to the Faculty to justify or require a suspension of the Lectures, but within a few days circumstances have occurred, which have shaken the previous convictions of all and wrought a complete change in the minds of some of the members in respect to what their duty obliges them, in this aspect of the matter to recommend. The Medical Members of the Faculty having now expressed the apprehension that the Health of the students may be endangered by their longer continuance here at present, the remaining members of the body, in view of this fact, unite in advising a suspension of the Lectures on this ground.

But besides these grave apprehensions, so universal an alarm pervades the whole body of students, which the extreme illness of two of their number and the reported indisposition of many who remain here, and of several who have gone home, augment, and so many have left the University, and express an intention to leave it, that the Faculty are convinced, that there is no reasonable probability of restoring confidence, and of quieting the agitation, which now for several days has prevented an effective application to their studies.

These reasons, of which those last stated operate very potently on most of its members, constrain the Faculty reluctantly yet decidedly to the opinion, that no alternative remains but to suspend for a time sufficiently long to afford ground to hope that the local causes of diseases may be removed and the tendency to come under their influence obviated by reaction \[?\] and change of scene.

2\. A corresponding prolongation of the session the Faculty believe to be required by the established policy of the University from which it ought not to depart, of conferring degrees as testimonials of actual acquirements. To abate any considerable part of the attainments ordinarily required would be unjust to the public, which has learned to confide in the diplomas of the University, unjust to past and future recipients of such certificates of merit, and unjust to the true interests of the young men, who are now candidates for the honors of the institution.

3\. As to the period of suspension, the Faculty are necessarily principally guided by the opinion of the medical men belonging to it, and they think, with the lights at present before them, that it should not be less, and need not be more than 6 weeks, say to the 1st of May. They submit, however, that it would be expedient to confer on the Faculty power to extend the period, should circumstances seem to require it.

4\. As to the time for which the session should be prolonged the Faculty are of opinion, that it would not be expedient to extend it into August, on account of the heat which usually prevails at that season, and the languor thence arising.

5\. The Faculty beg leave also to submit it as their opinion that no student should be permitted to reside, during the suspension within the limits of the University, and that their continuance in the neighborhood should be as far as possible discouraged, considerations of health and morality alike concur to recommend this course.

6\. They also submit for the consideration of the Board, without venturing now positively "to recommend it, the expediency when the exercises are resumed, of forbidding more than one student to occupy any room within the University."

On motion of Col. Randolph the following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved that in consequence of the inadequate and unsuitable accommodations for a large number of the students at the University and the present state of the health of its inmates - it is deemed expedient at the regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors to take into consideration the necessity of limiting the number of students to be hereafter admitted to matriculate.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what number of students can be suitably and comfortably accommodated in the present buildings within and without the precincts and report the same to the next regular annual meeting of the board.

The Board then adjourned until the 27th day of July next.

In pursuance of the adjourning order of 19th of March. The Rector appeared and remained at the University two days but no other members of the board having been in attendance there was no meeting.

I feel it to be due to myself, and to you, my associates in the Board of Visitors, to lay before you, at this my earliest opportunity, the accompanying correspondence which has recently taken place between Professor Harrison and myself. I present copies only, holding the originals, so far as in my possession, subject to the call of the Board. It will be seen that the subject of this correspondence is a letter written by Professor Harrison to Alexander Rives Esqr. Senator from Albemarle County, in the Virginia Legislature.

It appears from the last note of Professor Harrison that a copy of the letter in question will be forthcoming if called for by the Board of Visitors; and it only remains for me, in advance of its production, to state the reasons which induced me to call upon him for it; and which in my judgment, require that it shall now be called for by the Board.

In my opinion, formed from twice reading the letter carefully, it contains most serious charges and imputations upon the personal integrity and honor of a majority of the members of the Board of Visitors (without specifying by name which of them are intended) in reference to their official conduct, in transactions with Professor Harrison.

If I am right in my construction of the letter, the propriety of calling for its production would seem to be unquestionable. If I have mistaken its meaning, Professor Harrison ought to be glad of the opportunity to correct my error, by exhibiting it to the Board.

As to the protection claimed for private correspondence, my views have already been expressed in a letter to Professor Harrison, a copy of which I have laid before you.

While I can by no means admit that private correspondence, once become public, is entitled to the immunity due to its original character, I deem it proper to say that this letter in question not only did not profess to be confidential but on the contrary was evidently intended to be used as a means of influencing the action of a public body: and it was so used by the gentleman to whom it was addressed - having before I even heard of its existence, been shown or read to several members of the Legislature, without any injunction of confidence, or precaution used to ensure secrecy.

I infer too from the letter itself, that a duplicate of it was addressed to a western member of the legislature for the purpose of being used among the delegates from that portion of the state.

The letter to Mr Rives was shown to me by one of the members of the Legislature; and it is hardly necessary for me to say that it was without any obligation of confidence respecting it, either express or implied. Besides all this, Professor Harrison has thought fit in his letter to me to volunteer a reaffirmation of the contents of this letter; and to say that there is nothing in it he wishes to retract "if fairly understood". That it may be "fairly understood" by the Board, it is necessary that the letter should be laid before them.

For these, among other reasons, I feel bound, upon my responsibility as a Visitor, and a gentleman, to ask that the Board of Visitors will call upon Professor Harrison to produce the letter, for their inspection and consideration.

Having understood that a letter written by me to Alex Rives Esqr and designed to be private, had given offence to some members of the Board of Visitors, I wrote to a friend a note, which he was authorized and directed to show to Mr Edmunds, then in Richmond. The object of that note, as set forth in the note itself, was to do what I considered only right and just to do, by disclaiming any purpose to give by the letter referred to any offence to any member of the Board of Visitors or in any way to impugn the motives which may have prompted their action. Regretting as I do, that any expression should have been used by me that was susceptible of such construction. I avail myself of the opportunity afforded by your request to repeat to you directly what I said to him through a friend and to authorize you to make such use of it as may be consistent with the only purpose and end of the explanation now given.

Special Meeting
---------------

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, having been called to meet at the University this day by the request of three of the members viz Messrs Edmunds Tucker and Robertson, the following gentlemen appeared: T. J. Randolph Rector, J. R. Edmunds J. B. Baldwin W. T. Joynes and J. R. Tucker visitors When the following proceedings were had.

Mr. Joynes offered the following preamble and resolutions which were adopted.

The Board having convened this day in consequence of representations that there had been since their last meeting a material change in the health of the University, and in the views and opinions of the Faculty and Students, as to the course which ought to be adopted in reference thereto, held a conference on these subjects with the members of the Faculty and also with committees of the students representing those in favor of a suspension of the lectures and also those opposed to that course; and the Board having ascertained that there has been an increase of disease among the students since the late meeting of the Board, and that an apprehension prevails among a large majority of the students that the disease will still further increase hereafter, and that the existence of this state of feeling has already caused many of the students to leave the University, and will probably cause many others to leave, and believing that strong grounds exist to justify this apprehension; and the Faculty in their conference with the Board, and in their resolutions subsequently adopted, having in view of the recent changes in the health of the University and of the apprehended increase of disease, and in view also of the state of feeling among the students and of its actual and probable influence upon their studies and progress, having recommended a suspension of the lectures until the 1st day of May and a prolongation of the session until the 29th of July.

1\. Therefore Resolved that the Board concurring with the Faculty in the views expressed by them, direct that the Lectures in the University be suspended from this day until the 1st day of May next, and that the Session be prolonged therefrom until the 29th day of July next.

2\. Resolved that during the suspension of lectures directed by the foregoing resolutions the Faculty require all students as promptly as possible to vacate all the dormitories within the University.

3\. Resolved that so much of a resolution adopted by the Board at its last meeting as prohibits the reoccupation of any of the rooms on the ranges at any future time during this session be rescinded - and that it be referred to the executive committee to authorize the occupation of these rooms, or any others in the University as they think proper.

4\. Resolved that the next meeting of the Board be held on the 27th day of July next.

Resolved that the Secretary furnish to the chairman of the Faculty a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolutions and that the chairman cause a copy of the same to be communicated to the parent or guardian of each student.

The following is a copy of the communication from the Faculty referred to in the forgoing preamble and resolutions

"The Faculty having maturely considered the subjects referred to them by the Board of Visitors respectfully submit the following statement of their views.

1\. The amount and character of the sickness which until a few days ago prevailed and seemed likely to prevail in the University, did not appear to the Faculty to justify or require a suspension of the Lectures, but within a few days circumstances have occurred, which have shaken the previous convictions of all and wrought a complete change in the minds of some of the members in respect to what their duty obliges them, in this aspect of the matter to recommend. The Medical Members of the Faculty having now expressed the apprehension that the Health of the students may be endangered by their longer continuance here at present, the remaining members of the body, in view of this fact, unite in advising a suspension of the Lectures on this ground.

But besides these grave apprehensions, so universal an alarm pervades the whole body of students, which the extreme illness of two of their number and the reported indisposition of many who remain here, and of several who have gone home, augment, and so many have left the University, and express an intention to leave it, that the Faculty are convinced, that there is no reasonable probability of restoring confidence, and of quieting the agitation, which now for several days has prevented an effective application to their studies.

These reasons, of which those last stated operate very potently on most of its members, constrain the Faculty reluctantly yet decidedly to the opinion, that no alternative remains but to suspend for a time sufficiently long to afford ground to hope that the local causes of diseases may be removed and the tendency to come under their influence obviated by reaction \[?\] and change of scene.

2\. A corresponding prolongation of the session the Faculty believe to be required by the established policy of the University from which it ought not to depart, of conferring degrees as testimonials of actual acquirements. To abate any considerable part of the attainments ordinarily required would be unjust to the public, which has learned to confide in the diplomas of the University, unjust to past and future recipients of such certificates of merit, and unjust to the true interests of the young men, who are now candidates for the honors of the institution.

3\. As to the period of suspension, the Faculty are necessarily principally guided by the opinion of the medical men belonging to it, and they think, with the lights at present before them, that it should not be less, and need not be more than 6 weeks, say to the 1st of May. They submit, however, that it would be expedient to confer on the Faculty power to extend the period, should circumstances seem to require it.

4\. As to the time for which the session should be prolonged the Faculty are of opinion, that it would not be expedient to extend it into August, on account of the heat which usually prevails at that season, and the languor thence arising.

5\. The Faculty beg leave also to submit it as their opinion that no student should be permitted to reside, during the suspension within the limits of the University, and that their continuance in the neighborhood should be as far as possible discouraged, considerations of health and morality alike concur to recommend this course.

6\. They also submit for the consideration of the Board, without venturing now positively "to recommend it, the expediency when the exercises are resumed, of forbidding more than one student to occupy any room within the University."

On motion of Col. Randolph the following resolutions were adopted.

Resolved that in consequence of the inadequate and unsuitable accommodations for a large number of the students at the University and the present state of the health of its inmates - it is deemed expedient at the regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors to take into consideration the necessity of limiting the number of students to be hereafter admitted to matriculate.

Resolved that the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what number of students can be suitably and comfortably accommodated in the present buildings within and without the precincts and report the same to the next regular annual meeting of the board.

The Board then adjourned until the 27th day of July next.

In pursuance of the adjourning order of 19th of March. The Rector appeared and remained at the University two days but no other members of the board having been in attendance there was no meeting.
