---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1883'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1883) September 11, 1883
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 11, 1883

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At an adjourned meeting of the Rector and Visitors, September 11, 1883.

Present, 10 O.C. A.M.

Wyatt M. Elliott, Rector, and Mess: Lamb, Ruggles, Bell, Ruffin and Taylor

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Colo Lamb having been relieved from service on the Committee of Examinations Judge Bell is hereby appointed to serve in his stead.

Messrs: Taylor, Lamb and Hansbrough are appointed the Committee on Health, Sewage, Drainage and Water Supply.

Present, 4;30, P.M. Mess Blair and Hansbrough.

Resolved, That the Committee on Apparatus, of which Genl Ruggles is Chairman be requested to examine, with the aid of Adj: Prof: Dunnington, the Laboratory, its apparatus and collections, recently in charge of Prof Mallet, so that there may be a proper transfer of responsibility for their condition.

Resolved, That the Faculty is authorized to establish and use such forms of all diplomas given by the University as may be deemed suitable and right: but it is understood that the Rector shall sign the diplomas given to Masters of Arts.

Resolved, That the Proctor be authorized to select and employ subordinates and servants, and to regulate their wages under the general regulations and laws in existence.

Whereas, Revd Otis A. Glazebrook, Chaplain, has presented his application to this Board asking that he be permitted to make such an addition to the Parsonage as will make his family comfortable (the present building being too small) to consist of one or two rooms in keeping with the present structure.

Resolved, That Revd Otis A. Glazebrook be authorized to make said addition at his own personal expense, being the terms named by himself. But it must be done subject to the approval of the Chairman and the Proctor

The Executive Committee, to whom was assigned the duty of arranging appropriate memorial ceremonies on the occasion of the erection of the Monument over the grave of Thomas Jefferson beg leave to recomment that the whole subject be referred to a special committee.

On motion of Genl Ruggles, Resolved, that a special committee of three be appointed by the Rector, who shall be Chairman, to confer with his Excellancy, Governor Cameron, and the Hon. Legislative Assembly of Virginia, in relation to appropriate measures commemorative of the fame of the renowned Apostle of Civil Liberty, Thomas Jefferson, the eminent founder of the University of Virginia, on the anniversary of his demise, and of the birth of our National Independence.

Committee: Mess Ruggles, Ruffin and Blair

Resolved, That the Proctor be authorized to buy a pair of Fairbanks Scales at a price not to exceed $100.

Resolved, That the Proctor be authorized to enlarge the University Cemetery at a cost not to exceed one hundred and fifty dollars.

Resolved, That the Proctor be directed to have a kitchen built for Prof Schele de Vere, the cost thereof not to exceed $300.

Resolved, That hereafter the Chair of Applied Mathematics and Civil Engineering in the University shall be restored to a full Professorship: That William M. Thornton, Adjunct Professor be promoted to the position: That the duties assigned to Prof. Thornton, and the compensation promised for the ensuing year shall be the same as enacted by the Rector and Visitors at their session last June.

Resolved, That when this Board adjourns it adjourn to meet on Thursday the 15th of November next.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning, 10 O.C.

William Lamb Rector, pro tem. April 3, 1884.

Teste, Wm A Winston, Secretary

Wednesday, September 12, 1883

Present, 10 O.C. A.M.

Wyatt M. Elliott, Rector; and Mess: Lamb, Ruggles,

Bell, Ruffin and Hansbrough.

Resolved, That the thanks of the Rector and Visitors be returned to Dr J.W. Mallet for the very liberal gift he has made to them in leaving at the University for the use of the Laboratory numerous specimens of his private property illustrating the manufacture of explosives, liquors, perfumes, sugars aniline dyes, etc:

Resolved, That in consequence of resignation of Prof J.W. Mallet of the Chair of General and Industrial Chemistry, Adj: Prof: F.P.Dunnington is hereby assigned to the charge and accountability of property in said school, comrising chemicals, apparatus and laboratory which have been hitherto under the care of Prof: Mallet.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee are hereby authorized to make the necessary arrangements for having the Chair of General and Applied Chemistry and Pharmacy temporarily filled until the same is permanently filled by the Rector and Visitors.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee are hereby authorized to provide a safe for the Proctor, and make necessary additions to the Proctor's kitchen, provided, the financial condition of the University will in their opinion justify the same.

Resolved, That the Executive Committee are hereby authorized to pay such expenditures as were made by the different chairs under the appropriations of last session, but which were not handed in for payment before the fiscal year, and which were cancelled by the sixth resolution adopted by the Rector and Visitors at the request of the Finance Committee at their meeting June 28th last.

Resolved, That the Proctor be authorized to pay the sum of $20.80, balance of bill for repairing the public dining-room, and $9.90, bill for painting latice in the public dining-room of hotel, No 2, and for material furnished therefor.

Adjourned.

Teste,
