---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1902'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1902) June 17, 1902
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 17, 1902

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

From State Annuity

$ 50,000.00

From State Special Appropriation (1 yr. only)

10,000.00

From Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

From Miller Fund

6,000.00

From Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

From Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

From Madison & Gordon funds Library

456.00

From Byrd funds Library

460.00

From Mason Fellowship

210.00

From Brown Scholarship

120.00

From Birely Scholarship

220.00

From Rents of two hotels

540.00

From Rents of One mess-hall

180.00

From Rents of School House - remodelled

125.00

From Rents of Temperance Hall

544.00

From Rents of Infirmary

450.00

From Rents of Alumni Hall

400.00

Carried Forward

$ 83,160.00

Brought Forward

$ 83,160.00

From Rents of Cottage

48.00

From Rents of Blacksmith Shop.

36.00

From Electric Lights

700.00

From Steam Heat for residents

177.50

From Interest on sinking fund (reinvestment)

2,244.00

From Deferred payments on fees (estimated)

600.00

From Students, under all heads- 600 $110.,

66,000.00

Total Receipts

$152,965.50

To Salaries of Instructors

$ 74,600.00

To Salaries of Officers

5,350.00

To Fellowships & Scholarships

4,500.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund.

21,464.00

To Wages of Employees

7,473.00

To Working Expenses

16,726.00

To Miscellaneous

18,926.15

To Deficit 1901-2

586.92

To Balance

3,289.43

$152,965.50

Salaries of Instructors.

23 Professors $3000,

$69,000.00

1 Instructor in Latin

800.00

1 Instructor in Physics

800.00

1 Instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 Instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 Demonstrator of Pathology & Biology

800.00

1 Director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$ 74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

1 Chairman of Faculty

$ 500.00

1 Proctor & Supt. Grounds & Buildings

2,000.00

1 Secretary of Visitors

100.00

1 Secretary of Faculty

800.00

1 Clerk of Proctor

1,000.00

1 Librarian

800.00

1 Commissioner of Accounts.

150.00

$ 5,350.00

Fellowships & Scholarships.

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

$ 200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowship

1,050.00

1 Biological Fellowship

300.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

1 Miller Scholarship (special)

300.00

6 State Public School Scholarship

1,200.00

$ 4,550.00

Interest & Sinking Fund.

Interest on Old debt

$ 5,170.00

Interest on New debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund(reinvested)

2,244.00

Sinking Fund - Old debt.

2,050.00

Sinking Fund - New debt.

2,000.00

$ 21,464.00

Wages of Employees.

University Artisan, Noreck

$ 1,000.00

Engineer & Fireman

630.00

Day Policeman & Boss of Hands

480.00

Night Policeman & Watchman

360.00

1 Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

1 Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

1 Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

1 Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

1 Janitor of Museum

180.00

1 Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

1 Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitor of New Buildings

450.00

2 Janitor of Randall Building

270.00

1 Messenger Chairman's Office

120.00

6 Laborers & Teamsters $15 per mo.

1,080.00

18 Dormitory Servants

1,760.00

$ 7,473.00

Working Expenses

Library (Madison, Gordon, & Byrd, 1902-3)

$ 916.00

Astronomical Department

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

300.00

2,296.00

Biological Department

$ 350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical Department (provided for by per cap charges.)

Law Department

500.00

Law Library - Special

500.00

Hospital (including rent of Infirmary)

3,650.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel for Heat & Electric Lights

3,000.00

Gas

250.00

Reservoir & Water

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed Blanks

200.00

Catalogues & Alumni Bulletin

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$ 16,726.00

Miscellaneous

Repairs

$ 5,000.00

Do for Electric Plant

500.00

Commutation of Rents - 11 Professors.

3,300.00

Contingent Fund

1,750.00

Fire Insurance

675.00

Chairs for Law Lecture Room

300.00

Microscopes

1,000.00

Cold Storage, Anatomical Dept.

1,250.00

Isolation Ward, conditioned

2,000.00

Dr. W. J. Humphreys

100.00

General Alumni Association

150.00

Removal of School House

800.00

Athletic Assn. (for Mule etc)

150.00

Geo. W Breck's Expenses

26.15

Final Reception

150.00

Alumni Luncheon

150.00

School of Methods

1,500.00

Henry Martin

25.00

Cold Storage Plant (Running Exp.1 year)

100.00

$ 18,926.15

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 17th day of June 1902.

Present Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors Joseph Bryan, Carter Glass, Geo. W. Miles, Daniel Harmon, R. Walton Moore, H. H. Downing, A. W. Wallace.

Messrs. Chas. P. Jones, H. H. Downing, Geo. W. Miles, Carter Glass, and A. W. Wallace were appointed by the Governor, approved by the Senate, and commissioned to serve as Visitors for the four years next ensuing from the 28th day of February 1902. Whereupon Messrs. Jones, Downing, Miles, & Glass, before Geo. W. Morris, Judge of the Corporation Court of Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Wallace before I. E. Mason, Judge of the 10th Circuit of Virginia, took and subscribed the oath required by law as Visitors of the University of Virginia.

On motion of Visitor R. Walton Moore, Charles P. Jones was re-elected Rector for the ensuing term.

James Jones was elected Secretary to the Board at a salary of $100 per annum, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of James B. Faulkner

Visitors Harmon, Jones, Glass, Miles, & Moore were elected by the Board an Executive Committee to serve until the next annual meetingl

The Standing Committees remain as heretofore, except that Visitor Wallace takes the place of Visitor Chandler on the Committees on Conduct of Schools etc and on Health etc.

The Committees are as follows:

Finance:       Visitors Harmon, Downing, & Glass.

Library & Apparatus- Visitors Bryan, Miles, & Moore.

Conduct of Schools etc. Visitors Miles, Irvine, & Wallace

Buildings & Grounds Visitors Glass, Bryan, & Downing

Health, Infirmary,

Sewerage, & Drainage Visitors Irvine, Wallace, & Moore.

Miller Board Com. Visitors Harmon, Glass, & Moore.

The Chairman of the Faculty handed in to the Board the Annual Report etc. of the Faculty, the Proctor's Report, the Report of the Commissioner of Accounts, the various School Reports, and sundry petitions and applications; which being read and considered, the following was enacted-:

Resolved- That the sum of $500. be appropriated to cover incidental expenses connected with the operation of the Electric Light plant. The details of this expenditure to be furnished by the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what steps, if any, should be taken with a view to provide assistance to the Professor of Biology.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to renew the fire insurance which will expire during the current year, with authority to place such additional insurance as he thinks proper on the paintings in the Academic Building.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to draw from the State Treasury the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars now there to the credit of the University of Virginia, and to deposit the same in some safe National Bank or Trust Company agreed upon by the Proctor and Chairman of the Executive Committee, in the State of Virginia, at a rate of interest, if possible, not less than three per cent.

Resolved: That the sum of $2000.00 be appropriated, when $4000.00 is secured from outside sources, for the purpose of constructing an isolated building for infectious diseases.

Resolved- That the request of Prof. Minor, relative to being permitted to deliver a course of lectures at the Georgetown University Law School, be granted.

Resolved- That $150.00 be hereby appropriated for the Alumni Luncheon at the end of each session.

Resolved- That the Jefferson National Bank be established as one of the depositories of the University funds— provided they execute a bond similar in amount and tenor with that required by the two other Bank depositories and with personal security satisfactory to the Proctor.

And the Proctor is further directed to ascertain and report to the next meeting of the Board, what arrangements can be made with the Banks in Charlottesville or elsewhere for interest on daily balances to his credit subject to checks. And the Proctor, with the consent and approval of the Finance Committee, is further authorized to make his deposits in such solvent Bank or Trust Company in the State of Virginia as will allow interest on daily balances, and report his action hereunder to the next meeting of this Board.

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of the Director of the Observatory, Messrs. J. P. McCallie, T. McN. Simpson, and G. F. Paddock be appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the year 1902-3.

Resolved- That the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars is hereby appropriated for the benefit of the General Alumni Association to be paid to the Committee of said Association consisting of Prof. R. C. Minor, John Patton, and J. W. Fishburne.

Resolved- That the Proctor is directed to arrange the Mess Hall at the South End of West Range for two lecture rooms to take the place of the lecture rooms heretofore used in the frame building known as the "School House".

Resolved- That Rufus H. Barringer be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing session, and that the action of the Miller Board in appropriating $30000 for an additional Scholarship and in the nomination of Peyton H. Bragg thereto, be, and the same is, confirmed and approved.

Resolved- That a Committee consisting of the Rector, the Chairman of the Faculty, and the Proctor be appointed to devise means of raising funds to enlarge the Hospital and increase the facilities of the Surgical branch of the Medical Department.

Resolved- That the Proctor equip the West Law lecture room with seats similar to those in the East Law lecture room, the price not to exceed $30000

Resolved- That the sum of $150 00 be hereby appropriated for a reception to the graduating students at the end of each session, by the University

Resolved- That the light for the two Literary Societies and the Y. M. C. A. Halls be furnished to a reasonable extent by the Proctor and that the bills for the past session against these organizations be remitted.

Resolved- That $500 00 in addition to the regular appropriation, be appropriated for the purchase of books for the Law Library.

Resolved- That the appointment of two student assisstants in Applied Mathematics, whose appointment was authorized by the Visitors, be made a standing order for the future, they to receive remission of their fees as remuneration for their services

Resolved- That Mr. J. P. Mc.Connell be elected by the Board to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the ensuing year, on account of good scholarship during the last session and because his election during the coming session will enable him to obtain his Ph.D. degree.

Resolved- That the regular annual appropriation for supplies in Mechanical Laboratory be fixed at $300 00 instead of $200 00, as heretofore.

Resolved- That the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor to remove the frame building called the School House and to reconstruct it in a more obscure part of the grounds be, and is hereby, approved, and the Proctor is authorized to make the removal accordingly, provided not over $800 00 be expended on this account.

The Proctor is further authorized to rent out said building when removed, at not less than $125 00 per annum.

Resolved- That the salary of I. K. Moran, Clerk of the Proctor, be increased to $1000 00 per annum, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor shall purchase a horse, or mule, and cart at a cost not exceeding $150 00. The same to be used by the Athletic Club when desired, and, when not so in use, to be at the disposal of the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor be directed to inquire or report to the next meeting of the Board the most practical remedy for the complaint of Mr E. C. Massie in regard to the sewerage. And in making such investigation, he shall have authority to have made such surveys as may be necessary.

Resolved- That the sum of $1500.00 be and is hereby appropriated to assist in in supplying instruction and lectures for the School of Methods that meets at the University this Summer, subject to the order of Mr. E. C. Glass, Conductor.

And resolved further, that the use of the lecture rooms and public hall be extended to the School of Methods and the free use of the lights, all under the supervision of the Proctor and Chairman of the Faculty, but in such a manner as not to interfere with the Summer Schools.

Resolved- That Dr. J. C. Flippin be appointed Demonstrator of Medical Biology and Pathology to succeed Dr. L. Skeen, resigned, in accordance with the recommendation of the Medical Faculty.

On motion, the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Glass, who was excused on account of pressing engagements elsewhere.

Resolved- That the resignation of Dr. Hugh T. Nelson as instructor in Clinical Surgery is hereby accepted. And in view of Dr. Nelson's long services in connection with the Clinical teaching at the University he is hereby appointed consulting Surgeon to the University Hospital.

Resolved- The Medical Faculty is authorized to divide the work of Clinical Instruction among the instructors as may be deemed best for the interests of the University, due consideration being given to technical training and peculiar personal fitness. For the present, the duty of instruction in Clinical Surgery hitherto discharged by H. T. Nelson is to be divided between Drs. J. H. Browning & Wm Randolph.

Resolved- That the Bierly Scholarship for the ensuing session be awarded to Mr. Jesse W. Downey, on the nomination of Albert S. Brown, Esq.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to purchase and present to Henry Martin, the Janitor of the University, a suit of clothes at a cost not to exceed $2500

Resolved- That the permission of the Board of Visitors be given to have the capitals of the columns on the Rotunda front and rear carved in accordance with the design of the capitals on the old Rotunda.

And that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Mr. John L. Williams for his generous offer to provide the funds for said work.

And that the execution of this work be committed to a Committee to consist of Col. Thomas H. Carter, Supt. of Grounds & Buildings, W. M. Thornton, and C. W. Kent.

Resolved- That the resignation of Col Wm E. Peters from the Chair of Latin in this University which was received this day be, and is hereby, accepted at his request.

In accepting this resignation, the Board of Visitors desires to record its profound appreciation of the zeal, success, thoroughness, and power with which Col. Peters has discharged through thirty-seven years the high and responsible duties of this professorship- of the contribution he has made to the fame of this seat of learning, and to express especially its gratitude for the inflexible standards of scholarship maintained throughout his administration of this School.

Resolved- further- that Col. Wm E. Peters be requested to continue his associations with the University, and to this end he be elected Emeritus Professor of Latin, without compensation, in the University of Virginia, with authority to sit with the Faculty in all of its deliberations and share in its decisions.

Resolved- That the salary of the Chairman of the Faculty for the future shall not exceed the sum of $50000 in addition to his pay as a Professor.

Resolved- The election of a Chairman of the Faculty be, and is hereby, postponed until the Fall meeting of this Board and that Professor Barringer be requested to continue to discharge the duties of the office until his successor is elected, he to receive a proportionate amount of the salary for the time.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to pay Prof. W. J. Humphreys $100 00 for special work done in the Physical Laboratory.

Resolved- That the action of the Chairman of the Faculty in ruling that no part of the emoluments pertaining to Alumni Scholarships shall be used in the prosecution of professional courses at the University, be sustained.

Resolved- That recommendation No. 13 in Report of the Faculty relative to the Law Department be hereafter considered, and that the Exhibit accompanying it be typewritten under the Secretary's direction for the use of the Board.

The following communication was received from the Faculty and approved.

"In view of the protest by the M. A. Class in the School of Romance Languages in regard to the graduation of Mr. L Patton, be it

Resolved— That Professor R. H. Wilson should be required, promptly on his return from Europe, to explain to the Faculty and to the Visitors his failure and alleged refusal to comply with the laws of the University in respect to the holding of examinations.

That a copy of this resolution be sent to the Visitors for their approval, and that it be at once sent to Professor Wilson by an official letter."

Resolved- That the sum of $1000.00 be appropriated for the purchase of fourteen microscopes for the use of the Medical Department in accordance with the recommendation No. 14 of the Faculty.

Resolved: That the recommendations of the Faculty and all other matters relative to the Library be referred to the Library Committee for consideration and report at the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved: That the sum of $125000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated for the installation of a cold storage plant for the Anatomical Department and $10000 for the cost of running said plant one year.

Resolved- That the application of H. Norrick for an increase in salary, which is accompanied by the endorsement of the Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be granted, and said salary is increased to $100000 per annum.

This application is accompanied by the statement that no further request for increased compensation will hereafter be asked by this employee, and it is granted upon this understanding.

Resolved- That the disposition of the pavilion now occupied by Col. Peters be postponed until the October meeting of the Board.

Resolved- That the Proctor pay to Mr. Geo. W. Breck the sum of $2615, being amount of expenses paid by him in travelling from New York to Charlottesville, when he superintended the placing of the new copy of the School of Athens in the Auditorium, this sum being in full of the whole amount due to Mr. Breck.

The Finance Committee submitted its Report which upon being read and considered, on motion the same was received, approved, adopted, and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

Said Report is in the following words and figures, to-wit

"Your Finance Committee respectfully reports the following

—Estimate of Receipts for the Session of 1902-3.—

Out of the Current Receipts the following disbursements are to be made:

———Itemized Statement of Expenditures Authorized———

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

Jas Jones Secretary.

Charles P. Jones Rector.

At a called meeting of the Board of Visitors held in Richmond, Va. on July 17, 1902.

Present The Rector, & Members. Miles, Bryan, & Wallace.

The following resolution, in regard to recommendation No. 10, Faculty Report 1902-3, on which action was deferred at the regular annual meeting, was passed-:

Ordered by the Visitors that:

Section 165 of the Laws of the University, as revised in 1900 be, and is hereby, amended by the addition at the end of the section of the following words-

"In lieu of the three electives at large to be taken from among the courses of the Academic Department, the first year course in Law, or the first year course in Medicine, or any three courses in Engineering may be offered for the degree of Bachelor of Arts—the candidate paying in each case the proper department fees.

In the case of a student of Medicine, or of Engineering, the studies elected must satisfy the requirements of the Academic groups."

Resolved - The sum of $1250 00 heretofore appropriated for the installation of a cold storage plant in connection with the anatomical department of the University be & is hereby increased to such a sum not exceeding $2000. as may be necessary to complete said plant, provided before beginning said work the Proctor shall make such contracts as will insure the completion of the plant within the sum of $2000. above mentioned.

Resolved - That the Board of Visitors of the University of Va. do hereby nominate to the Senate of Virginia, Dr. Chas. W. Kent of the Faculty of the University of Va. as one of the list of eligibles for election by the Senate to membership on the School Board of the State of Va. according to article IX, Section 130 of the Constitution of Virginia.

On motion the Board adjourned sine die.

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 17th day of June 1902.

Present Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors Joseph Bryan, Carter Glass, Geo. W. Miles, Daniel Harmon, R. Walton Moore, H. H. Downing, A. W. Wallace.

Messrs. Chas. P. Jones, H. H. Downing, Geo. W. Miles, Carter Glass, and A. W. Wallace were appointed by the Governor, approved by the Senate, and commissioned to serve as Visitors for the four years next ensuing from the 28th day of February 1902. Whereupon Messrs. Jones, Downing, Miles, & Glass, before Geo. W. Morris, Judge of the Corporation Court of Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Wallace before I. E. Mason, Judge of the 10th Circuit of Virginia, took and subscribed the oath required by law as Visitors of the University of Virginia.

On motion of Visitor R. Walton Moore, Charles P. Jones was re-elected Rector for the ensuing term.

James Jones was elected Secretary to the Board at a salary of $100 per annum, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of James B. Faulkner

Visitors Harmon, Jones, Glass, Miles, & Moore were elected by the Board an Executive Committee to serve until the next annual meetingl

The Standing Committees remain as heretofore, except that Visitor Wallace takes the place of Visitor Chandler on the Committees on Conduct of Schools etc and on Health etc.

The Committees are as follows:

Finance:       Visitors Harmon, Downing, & Glass.

Library & Apparatus- Visitors Bryan, Miles, & Moore.

Conduct of Schools etc. Visitors Miles, Irvine, & Wallace

Buildings & Grounds Visitors Glass, Bryan, & Downing

Health, Infirmary,

Sewerage, & Drainage Visitors Irvine, Wallace, & Moore.

Miller Board Com. Visitors Harmon, Glass, & Moore.

The Chairman of the Faculty handed in to the Board the Annual Report etc. of the Faculty, the Proctor's Report, the Report of the Commissioner of Accounts, the various School Reports, and sundry petitions and applications; which being read and considered, the following was enacted-:

Resolved- That the sum of $500. be appropriated to cover incidental expenses connected with the operation of the Electric Light plant. The details of this expenditure to be furnished by the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what steps, if any, should be taken with a view to provide assistance to the Professor of Biology.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to renew the fire insurance which will expire during the current year, with authority to place such additional insurance as he thinks proper on the paintings in the Academic Building.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to draw from the State Treasury the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars now there to the credit of the University of Virginia, and to deposit the same in some safe National Bank or Trust Company agreed upon by the Proctor and Chairman of the Executive Committee, in the State of Virginia, at a rate of interest, if possible, not less than three per cent.

Resolved: That the sum of $2000.00 be appropriated, when $4000.00 is secured from outside sources, for the purpose of constructing an isolated building for infectious diseases.

Resolved- That the request of Prof. Minor, relative to being permitted to deliver a course of lectures at the Georgetown University Law School, be granted.

Resolved- That $150.00 be hereby appropriated for the Alumni Luncheon at the end of each session.

Resolved- That the Jefferson National Bank be established as one of the depositories of the University funds— provided they execute a bond similar in amount and tenor with that required by the two other Bank depositories and with personal security satisfactory to the Proctor.

And the Proctor is further directed to ascertain and report to the next meeting of the Board, what arrangements can be made with the Banks in Charlottesville or elsewhere for interest on daily balances to his credit subject to checks. And the Proctor, with the consent and approval of the Finance Committee, is further authorized to make his deposits in such solvent Bank or Trust Company in the State of Virginia as will allow interest on daily balances, and report his action hereunder to the next meeting of this Board.

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of the Director of the Observatory, Messrs. J. P. McCallie, T. McN. Simpson, and G. F. Paddock be appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the year 1902-3.

Resolved- That the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars is hereby appropriated for the benefit of the General Alumni Association to be paid to the Committee of said Association consisting of Prof. R. C. Minor, John Patton, and J. W. Fishburne.

Resolved- That the Proctor is directed to arrange the Mess Hall at the South End of West Range for two lecture rooms to take the place of the lecture rooms heretofore used in the frame building known as the "School House".

Resolved- That Rufus H. Barringer be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing session, and that the action of the Miller Board in appropriating $30000 for an additional Scholarship and in the nomination of Peyton H. Bragg thereto, be, and the same is, confirmed and approved.

Resolved- That a Committee consisting of the Rector, the Chairman of the Faculty, and the Proctor be appointed to devise means of raising funds to enlarge the Hospital and increase the facilities of the Surgical branch of the Medical Department.

Resolved- That the Proctor equip the West Law lecture room with seats similar to those in the East Law lecture room, the price not to exceed $30000

Resolved- That the sum of $150 00 be hereby appropriated for a reception to the graduating students at the end of each session, by the University

Resolved- That the light for the two Literary Societies and the Y. M. C. A. Halls be furnished to a reasonable extent by the Proctor and that the bills for the past session against these organizations be remitted.

Resolved- That $500 00 in addition to the regular appropriation, be appropriated for the purchase of books for the Law Library.

Resolved- That the appointment of two student assisstants in Applied Mathematics, whose appointment was authorized by the Visitors, be made a standing order for the future, they to receive remission of their fees as remuneration for their services

Resolved- That Mr. J. P. Mc.Connell be elected by the Board to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the ensuing year, on account of good scholarship during the last session and because his election during the coming session will enable him to obtain his Ph.D. degree.

Resolved- That the regular annual appropriation for supplies in Mechanical Laboratory be fixed at $300 00 instead of $200 00, as heretofore.

Resolved- That the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor to remove the frame building called the School House and to reconstruct it in a more obscure part of the grounds be, and is hereby, approved, and the Proctor is authorized to make the removal accordingly, provided not over $800 00 be expended on this account.

The Proctor is further authorized to rent out said building when removed, at not less than $125 00 per annum.

Resolved- That the salary of I. K. Moran, Clerk of the Proctor, be increased to $1000 00 per annum, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor shall purchase a horse, or mule, and cart at a cost not exceeding $150 00. The same to be used by the Athletic Club when desired, and, when not so in use, to be at the disposal of the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor be directed to inquire or report to the next meeting of the Board the most practical remedy for the complaint of Mr E. C. Massie in regard to the sewerage. And in making such investigation, he shall have authority to have made such surveys as may be necessary.

Resolved- That the sum of $1500.00 be and is hereby appropriated to assist in in supplying instruction and lectures for the School of Methods that meets at the University this Summer, subject to the order of Mr. E. C. Glass, Conductor.

And resolved further, that the use of the lecture rooms and public hall be extended to the School of Methods and the free use of the lights, all under the supervision of the Proctor and Chairman of the Faculty, but in such a manner as not to interfere with the Summer Schools.

Resolved- That Dr. J. C. Flippin be appointed Demonstrator of Medical Biology and Pathology to succeed Dr. L. Skeen, resigned, in accordance with the recommendation of the Medical Faculty.

On motion, the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock

From State Annuity

$ 50,000.00

From State Special Appropriation (1 yr. only)

10,000.00

From Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

From Miller Fund

6,000.00

From Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

From Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

From Madison & Gordon funds Library

456.00

From Byrd funds Library

460.00

From Mason Fellowship

210.00

From Brown Scholarship

120.00

From Birely Scholarship

220.00

From Rents of two hotels

540.00

From Rents of One mess-hall

180.00

From Rents of School House - remodelled

125.00

From Rents of Temperance Hall

544.00

From Rents of Infirmary

450.00

From Rents of Alumni Hall

400.00

Carried Forward

$ 83,160.00

Brought Forward

$ 83,160.00

From Rents of Cottage

48.00

From Rents of Blacksmith Shop.

36.00

From Electric Lights

700.00

From Steam Heat for residents

177.50

From Interest on sinking fund (reinvestment)

2,244.00

From Deferred payments on fees (estimated)

600.00

From Students, under all heads- 600 $110.,

66,000.00

Total Receipts

$152,965.50

To Salaries of Instructors

$ 74,600.00

To Salaries of Officers

5,350.00

To Fellowships & Scholarships

4,500.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund.

21,464.00

To Wages of Employees

7,473.00

To Working Expenses

16,726.00

To Miscellaneous

18,926.15

To Deficit 1901-2

586.92

To Balance

3,289.43

$152,965.50

Salaries of Instructors.

23 Professors $3000,

$69,000.00

1 Instructor in Latin

800.00

1 Instructor in Physics

800.00

1 Instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 Instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 Demonstrator of Pathology & Biology

800.00

1 Director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$ 74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

1 Chairman of Faculty

$ 500.00

1 Proctor & Supt. Grounds & Buildings

2,000.00

1 Secretary of Visitors

100.00

1 Secretary of Faculty

800.00

1 Clerk of Proctor

1,000.00

1 Librarian

800.00

1 Commissioner of Accounts.

150.00

$ 5,350.00

Fellowships & Scholarships.

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

$ 200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowship

1,050.00

1 Biological Fellowship

300.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

1 Miller Scholarship (special)

300.00

6 State Public School Scholarship

1,200.00

$ 4,550.00

Interest & Sinking Fund.

Interest on Old debt

$ 5,170.00

Interest on New debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund(reinvested)

2,244.00

Sinking Fund - Old debt.

2,050.00

Sinking Fund - New debt.

2,000.00

$ 21,464.00

Wages of Employees.

University Artisan, Noreck

$ 1,000.00

Engineer & Fireman

630.00

Day Policeman & Boss of Hands

480.00

Night Policeman & Watchman

360.00

1 Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

1 Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

1 Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

1 Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

1 Janitor of Museum

180.00

1 Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

1 Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitor of New Buildings

450.00

2 Janitor of Randall Building

270.00

1 Messenger Chairman's Office

120.00

6 Laborers & Teamsters $15 per mo.

1,080.00

18 Dormitory Servants

1,760.00

$ 7,473.00

Working Expenses

Library (Madison, Gordon, & Byrd, 1902-3)

$ 916.00

Astronomical Department

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

300.00

2,296.00

Biological Department

$ 350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical Department (provided for by per cap charges.)

Law Department

500.00

Law Library - Special

500.00

Hospital (including rent of Infirmary)

3,650.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel for Heat & Electric Lights

3,000.00

Gas

250.00

Reservoir & Water

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed Blanks

200.00

Catalogues & Alumni Bulletin

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$ 16,726.00

Miscellaneous

Repairs

$ 5,000.00

Do for Electric Plant

500.00

Commutation of Rents - 11 Professors.

3,300.00

Contingent Fund

1,750.00

Fire Insurance

675.00

Chairs for Law Lecture Room

300.00

Microscopes

1,000.00

Cold Storage, Anatomical Dept.

1,250.00

Isolation Ward, conditioned

2,000.00

Dr. W. J. Humphreys

100.00

General Alumni Association

150.00

Removal of School House

800.00

Athletic Assn. (for Mule etc)

150.00

Geo. W Breck's Expenses

26.15

Final Reception

150.00

Alumni Luncheon

150.00

School of Methods

1,500.00

Henry Martin

25.00

Cold Storage Plant (Running Exp.1 year)

100.00

$ 18,926.15

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Glass, who was excused on account of pressing engagements elsewhere.

Resolved- That the resignation of Dr. Hugh T. Nelson as instructor in Clinical Surgery is hereby accepted. And in view of Dr. Nelson's long services in connection with the Clinical teaching at the University he is hereby appointed consulting Surgeon to the University Hospital.

Resolved- The Medical Faculty is authorized to divide the work of Clinical Instruction among the instructors as may be deemed best for the interests of the University, due consideration being given to technical training and peculiar personal fitness. For the present, the duty of instruction in Clinical Surgery hitherto discharged by H. T. Nelson is to be divided between Drs. J. H. Browning & Wm Randolph.

Resolved- That the Bierly Scholarship for the ensuing session be awarded to Mr. Jesse W. Downey, on the nomination of Albert S. Brown, Esq.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to purchase and present to Henry Martin, the Janitor of the University, a suit of clothes at a cost not to exceed $2500

Resolved- That the permission of the Board of Visitors be given to have the capitals of the columns on the Rotunda front and rear carved in accordance with the design of the capitals on the old Rotunda.

And that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Mr. John L. Williams for his generous offer to provide the funds for said work.

And that the execution of this work be committed to a Committee to consist of Col. Thomas H. Carter, Supt. of Grounds & Buildings, W. M. Thornton, and C. W. Kent.

Resolved- That the resignation of Col Wm E. Peters from the Chair of Latin in this University which was received this day be, and is hereby, accepted at his request.

In accepting this resignation, the Board of Visitors desires to record its profound appreciation of the zeal, success, thoroughness, and power with which Col. Peters has discharged through thirty-seven years the high and responsible duties of this professorship- of the contribution he has made to the fame of this seat of learning, and to express especially its gratitude for the inflexible standards of scholarship maintained throughout his administration of this School.

Resolved- further- that Col. Wm E. Peters be requested to continue his associations with the University, and to this end he be elected Emeritus Professor of Latin, without compensation, in the University of Virginia, with authority to sit with the Faculty in all of its deliberations and share in its decisions.

Resolved- That the salary of the Chairman of the Faculty for the future shall not exceed the sum of $50000 in addition to his pay as a Professor.

Resolved- The election of a Chairman of the Faculty be, and is hereby, postponed until the Fall meeting of this Board and that Professor Barringer be requested to continue to discharge the duties of the office until his successor is elected, he to receive a proportionate amount of the salary for the time.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to pay Prof. W. J. Humphreys $100 00 for special work done in the Physical Laboratory.

Resolved- That the action of the Chairman of the Faculty in ruling that no part of the emoluments pertaining to Alumni Scholarships shall be used in the prosecution of professional courses at the University, be sustained.

Resolved- That recommendation No. 13 in Report of the Faculty relative to the Law Department be hereafter considered, and that the Exhibit accompanying it be typewritten under the Secretary's direction for the use of the Board.

The following communication was received from the Faculty and approved.

"In view of the protest by the M. A. Class in the School of Romance Languages in regard to the graduation of Mr. L Patton, be it

Resolved— That Professor R. H. Wilson should be required, promptly on his return from Europe, to explain to the Faculty and to the Visitors his failure and alleged refusal to comply with the laws of the University in respect to the holding of examinations.

That a copy of this resolution be sent to the Visitors for their approval, and that it be at once sent to Professor Wilson by an official letter."

Resolved- That the sum of $1000.00 be appropriated for the purchase of fourteen microscopes for the use of the Medical Department in accordance with the recommendation No. 14 of the Faculty.

Resolved: That the recommendations of the Faculty and all other matters relative to the Library be referred to the Library Committee for consideration and report at the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved: That the sum of $125000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated for the installation of a cold storage plant for the Anatomical Department and $10000 for the cost of running said plant one year.

Resolved- That the application of H. Norrick for an increase in salary, which is accompanied by the endorsement of the Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be granted, and said salary is increased to $100000 per annum.

This application is accompanied by the statement that no further request for increased compensation will hereafter be asked by this employee, and it is granted upon this understanding.

Resolved- That the disposition of the pavilion now occupied by Col. Peters be postponed until the October meeting of the Board.

Resolved- That the Proctor pay to Mr. Geo. W. Breck the sum of $2615, being amount of expenses paid by him in travelling from New York to Charlottesville, when he superintended the placing of the new copy of the School of Athens in the Auditorium, this sum being in full of the whole amount due to Mr. Breck.

The Finance Committee submitted its Report which upon being read and considered, on motion the same was received, approved, adopted, and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

Said Report is in the following words and figures, to-wit

"Your Finance Committee respectfully reports the following

—Estimate of Receipts for the Session of 1902-3.—

Out of the Current Receipts the following disbursements are to be made:

———Itemized Statement of Expenditures Authorized———

At a regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia held at the University on the 17th day of June 1902.

Present Charles P. Jones, Rector, and Visitors Joseph Bryan, Carter Glass, Geo. W. Miles, Daniel Harmon, R. Walton Moore, H. H. Downing, A. W. Wallace.

Messrs. Chas. P. Jones, H. H. Downing, Geo. W. Miles, Carter Glass, and A. W. Wallace were appointed by the Governor, approved by the Senate, and commissioned to serve as Visitors for the four years next ensuing from the 28th day of February 1902. Whereupon Messrs. Jones, Downing, Miles, & Glass, before Geo. W. Morris, Judge of the Corporation Court of Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Wallace before I. E. Mason, Judge of the 10th Circuit of Virginia, took and subscribed the oath required by law as Visitors of the University of Virginia.

On motion of Visitor R. Walton Moore, Charles P. Jones was re-elected Rector for the ensuing term.

James Jones was elected Secretary to the Board at a salary of $100 per annum, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of James B. Faulkner

Visitors Harmon, Jones, Glass, Miles, & Moore were elected by the Board an Executive Committee to serve until the next annual meetingl

The Standing Committees remain as heretofore, except that Visitor Wallace takes the place of Visitor Chandler on the Committees on Conduct of Schools etc and on Health etc.

The Committees are as follows:

Finance:       Visitors Harmon, Downing, & Glass.

Library & Apparatus- Visitors Bryan, Miles, & Moore.

Conduct of Schools etc. Visitors Miles, Irvine, & Wallace

Buildings & Grounds Visitors Glass, Bryan, & Downing

Health, Infirmary,

Sewerage, & Drainage Visitors Irvine, Wallace, & Moore.

Miller Board Com. Visitors Harmon, Glass, & Moore.

The Chairman of the Faculty handed in to the Board the Annual Report etc. of the Faculty, the Proctor's Report, the Report of the Commissioner of Accounts, the various School Reports, and sundry petitions and applications; which being read and considered, the following was enacted-:

Resolved- That the sum of $500. be appropriated to cover incidental expenses connected with the operation of the Electric Light plant. The details of this expenditure to be furnished by the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what steps, if any, should be taken with a view to provide assistance to the Professor of Biology.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to renew the fire insurance which will expire during the current year, with authority to place such additional insurance as he thinks proper on the paintings in the Academic Building.

Resolved—That the Proctor be directed to draw from the State Treasury the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars now there to the credit of the University of Virginia, and to deposit the same in some safe National Bank or Trust Company agreed upon by the Proctor and Chairman of the Executive Committee, in the State of Virginia, at a rate of interest, if possible, not less than three per cent.

Resolved: That the sum of $2000.00 be appropriated, when $4000.00 is secured from outside sources, for the purpose of constructing an isolated building for infectious diseases.

Resolved- That the request of Prof. Minor, relative to being permitted to deliver a course of lectures at the Georgetown University Law School, be granted.

Resolved- That $150.00 be hereby appropriated for the Alumni Luncheon at the end of each session.

Resolved- That the Jefferson National Bank be established as one of the depositories of the University funds— provided they execute a bond similar in amount and tenor with that required by the two other Bank depositories and with personal security satisfactory to the Proctor.

And the Proctor is further directed to ascertain and report to the next meeting of the Board, what arrangements can be made with the Banks in Charlottesville or elsewhere for interest on daily balances to his credit subject to checks. And the Proctor, with the consent and approval of the Finance Committee, is further authorized to make his deposits in such solvent Bank or Trust Company in the State of Virginia as will allow interest on daily balances, and report his action hereunder to the next meeting of this Board.

Resolved: That in accordance with the recommendation of the Director of the Observatory, Messrs. J. P. McCallie, T. McN. Simpson, and G. F. Paddock be appointed Fellows in Astronomy for the year 1902-3.

Resolved- That the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars is hereby appropriated for the benefit of the General Alumni Association to be paid to the Committee of said Association consisting of Prof. R. C. Minor, John Patton, and J. W. Fishburne.

Resolved- That the Proctor is directed to arrange the Mess Hall at the South End of West Range for two lecture rooms to take the place of the lecture rooms heretofore used in the frame building known as the "School House".

Resolved- That Rufus H. Barringer be appointed to the Miller Scholarship for the ensuing session, and that the action of the Miller Board in appropriating $30000 for an additional Scholarship and in the nomination of Peyton H. Bragg thereto, be, and the same is, confirmed and approved.

Resolved- That a Committee consisting of the Rector, the Chairman of the Faculty, and the Proctor be appointed to devise means of raising funds to enlarge the Hospital and increase the facilities of the Surgical branch of the Medical Department.

Resolved- That the Proctor equip the West Law lecture room with seats similar to those in the East Law lecture room, the price not to exceed $30000

Resolved- That the sum of $150 00 be hereby appropriated for a reception to the graduating students at the end of each session, by the University

Resolved- That the light for the two Literary Societies and the Y. M. C. A. Halls be furnished to a reasonable extent by the Proctor and that the bills for the past session against these organizations be remitted.

Resolved- That $500 00 in addition to the regular appropriation, be appropriated for the purchase of books for the Law Library.

Resolved- That the appointment of two student assisstants in Applied Mathematics, whose appointment was authorized by the Visitors, be made a standing order for the future, they to receive remission of their fees as remuneration for their services

Resolved- That Mr. J. P. Mc.Connell be elected by the Board to the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the ensuing year, on account of good scholarship during the last session and because his election during the coming session will enable him to obtain his Ph.D. degree.

Resolved- That the regular annual appropriation for supplies in Mechanical Laboratory be fixed at $300 00 instead of $200 00, as heretofore.

Resolved- That the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor to remove the frame building called the School House and to reconstruct it in a more obscure part of the grounds be, and is hereby, approved, and the Proctor is authorized to make the removal accordingly, provided not over $800 00 be expended on this account.

The Proctor is further authorized to rent out said building when removed, at not less than $125 00 per annum.

Resolved- That the salary of I. K. Moran, Clerk of the Proctor, be increased to $1000 00 per annum, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty and the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor shall purchase a horse, or mule, and cart at a cost not exceeding $150 00. The same to be used by the Athletic Club when desired, and, when not so in use, to be at the disposal of the Proctor.

Resolved- That the Proctor be directed to inquire or report to the next meeting of the Board the most practical remedy for the complaint of Mr E. C. Massie in regard to the sewerage. And in making such investigation, he shall have authority to have made such surveys as may be necessary.

Resolved- That the sum of $1500.00 be and is hereby appropriated to assist in in supplying instruction and lectures for the School of Methods that meets at the University this Summer, subject to the order of Mr. E. C. Glass, Conductor.

And resolved further, that the use of the lecture rooms and public hall be extended to the School of Methods and the free use of the lights, all under the supervision of the Proctor and Chairman of the Faculty, but in such a manner as not to interfere with the Summer Schools.

Resolved- That Dr. J. C. Flippin be appointed Demonstrator of Medical Biology and Pathology to succeed Dr. L. Skeen, resigned, in accordance with the recommendation of the Medical Faculty.

On motion, the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock

From State Annuity

$ 50,000.00

From State Special Appropriation (1 yr. only)

10,000.00

From Corcoran Fund

6,000.00

From Miller Fund

6,000.00

From Linden Kent Fund

3,000.00

From Astronomical Fund

4,455.00

From Madison & Gordon funds Library

456.00

From Byrd funds Library

460.00

From Mason Fellowship

210.00

From Brown Scholarship

120.00

From Birely Scholarship

220.00

From Rents of two hotels

540.00

From Rents of One mess-hall

180.00

From Rents of School House - remodelled

125.00

From Rents of Temperance Hall

544.00

From Rents of Infirmary

450.00

From Rents of Alumni Hall

400.00

Carried Forward

$ 83,160.00

Brought Forward

$ 83,160.00

From Rents of Cottage

48.00

From Rents of Blacksmith Shop.

36.00

From Electric Lights

700.00

From Steam Heat for residents

177.50

From Interest on sinking fund (reinvestment)

2,244.00

From Deferred payments on fees (estimated)

600.00

From Students, under all heads- 600 $110.,

66,000.00

Total Receipts

$152,965.50

To Salaries of Instructors

$ 74,600.00

To Salaries of Officers

5,350.00

To Fellowships & Scholarships

4,500.00

To Interest & Sinking Fund.

21,464.00

To Wages of Employees

7,473.00

To Working Expenses

16,726.00

To Miscellaneous

18,926.15

To Deficit 1901-2

586.92

To Balance

3,289.43

$152,965.50

Salaries of Instructors.

23 Professors $3000,

$69,000.00

1 Instructor in Latin

800.00

1 Instructor in Physics

800.00

1 Instructor in Engineering

600.00

1 Instructor in Materia Medica

300.00

1 Demonstrator of Anatomy

800.00

1 Demonstrator of Pathology & Biology

800.00

1 Director of Gymnasium

1,500.00

$ 74,600.00

Salaries of Officers

1 Chairman of Faculty

$ 500.00

1 Proctor & Supt. Grounds & Buildings

2,000.00

1 Secretary of Visitors

100.00

1 Secretary of Faculty

800.00

1 Clerk of Proctor

1,000.00

1 Librarian

800.00

1 Commissioner of Accounts.

150.00

$ 5,350.00

Fellowships & Scholarships.

1 Teutonic Language Fellowship

$ 200.00

1 English Literature Fellowship

200.00

3 Astronomical Fellowship

1,050.00

1 Biological Fellowship

300.00

1 Mason Fellowship

210.00

1 Brown Scholarship

120.00

1 Birely Scholarship

220.00

3 Miller Scholarship

750.00

1 Miller Scholarship (special)

300.00

6 State Public School Scholarship

1,200.00

$ 4,550.00

Interest & Sinking Fund.

Interest on Old debt

$ 5,170.00

Interest on New debt

10,000.00

Interest on sinking fund(reinvested)

2,244.00

Sinking Fund - Old debt.

2,050.00

Sinking Fund - New debt.

2,000.00

$ 21,464.00

Wages of Employees.

University Artisan, Noreck

$ 1,000.00

Engineer & Fireman

630.00

Day Policeman & Boss of Hands

480.00

Night Policeman & Watchman

360.00

1 Janitor of Rotunda

300.00

1 Janitor of Anatomical Hall

240.00

1 Janitor of Chemical Laboratory

135.00

1 Janitor of Medical Hall

135.00

1 Janitor of Museum

180.00

1 Janitor of Gymnasium

225.00

1 Janitor of Dispensary

108.00

3 Janitor of New Buildings

450.00

2 Janitor of Randall Building

270.00

1 Messenger Chairman's Office

120.00

6 Laborers & Teamsters $15 per mo.

1,080.00

18 Dormitory Servants

1,760.00

$ 7,473.00

Working Expenses

Library (Madison, Gordon, & Byrd, 1902-3)

$ 916.00

Astronomical Department

405.00

Physical Department

300.00

Chemical Department

350.00

Geological Department

25.00

Engineering Department

300.00

2,296.00

Biological Department

$ 350.00

Pathological Department

250.00

Medical Department (provided for by per cap charges.)

Law Department

500.00

Law Library - Special

500.00

Hospital (including rent of Infirmary)

3,650.00

Dispensary

400.00

Gymnasium

450.00

Fuel for Heat & Electric Lights

3,000.00

Gas

250.00

Reservoir & Water

180.00

Diplomas

200.00

Printed Blanks

200.00

Catalogues & Alumni Bulletin

1,500.00

Advertising

3,000.00

$ 16,726.00

Miscellaneous

Repairs

$ 5,000.00

Do for Electric Plant

500.00

Commutation of Rents - 11 Professors.

3,300.00

Contingent Fund

1,750.00

Fire Insurance

675.00

Chairs for Law Lecture Room

300.00

Microscopes

1,000.00

Cold Storage, Anatomical Dept.

1,250.00

Isolation Ward, conditioned

2,000.00

Dr. W. J. Humphreys

100.00

General Alumni Association

150.00

Removal of School House

800.00

Athletic Assn. (for Mule etc)

150.00

Geo. W Breck's Expenses

26.15

Final Reception

150.00

Alumni Luncheon

150.00

School of Methods

1,500.00

Henry Martin

25.00

Cold Storage Plant (Running Exp.1 year)

100.00

$ 18,926.15

The Board met in pursuance of adjournment on yesterday.

Present: The same members as on yesterday, with the exception of Mr. Glass, who was excused on account of pressing engagements elsewhere.

Resolved- That the resignation of Dr. Hugh T. Nelson as instructor in Clinical Surgery is hereby accepted. And in view of Dr. Nelson's long services in connection with the Clinical teaching at the University he is hereby appointed consulting Surgeon to the University Hospital.

Resolved- The Medical Faculty is authorized to divide the work of Clinical Instruction among the instructors as may be deemed best for the interests of the University, due consideration being given to technical training and peculiar personal fitness. For the present, the duty of instruction in Clinical Surgery hitherto discharged by H. T. Nelson is to be divided between Drs. J. H. Browning & Wm Randolph.

Resolved- That the Bierly Scholarship for the ensuing session be awarded to Mr. Jesse W. Downey, on the nomination of Albert S. Brown, Esq.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to purchase and present to Henry Martin, the Janitor of the University, a suit of clothes at a cost not to exceed $2500

Resolved- That the permission of the Board of Visitors be given to have the capitals of the columns on the Rotunda front and rear carved in accordance with the design of the capitals on the old Rotunda.

And that the thanks of the Board be tendered to Mr. John L. Williams for his generous offer to provide the funds for said work.

And that the execution of this work be committed to a Committee to consist of Col. Thomas H. Carter, Supt. of Grounds & Buildings, W. M. Thornton, and C. W. Kent.

Resolved- That the resignation of Col Wm E. Peters from the Chair of Latin in this University which was received this day be, and is hereby, accepted at his request.

In accepting this resignation, the Board of Visitors desires to record its profound appreciation of the zeal, success, thoroughness, and power with which Col. Peters has discharged through thirty-seven years the high and responsible duties of this professorship- of the contribution he has made to the fame of this seat of learning, and to express especially its gratitude for the inflexible standards of scholarship maintained throughout his administration of this School.

Resolved- further- that Col. Wm E. Peters be requested to continue his associations with the University, and to this end he be elected Emeritus Professor of Latin, without compensation, in the University of Virginia, with authority to sit with the Faculty in all of its deliberations and share in its decisions.

Resolved- That the salary of the Chairman of the Faculty for the future shall not exceed the sum of $50000 in addition to his pay as a Professor.

Resolved- The election of a Chairman of the Faculty be, and is hereby, postponed until the Fall meeting of this Board and that Professor Barringer be requested to continue to discharge the duties of the office until his successor is elected, he to receive a proportionate amount of the salary for the time.

Resolved- The Proctor is authorized to pay Prof. W. J. Humphreys $100 00 for special work done in the Physical Laboratory.

Resolved- That the action of the Chairman of the Faculty in ruling that no part of the emoluments pertaining to Alumni Scholarships shall be used in the prosecution of professional courses at the University, be sustained.

Resolved- That recommendation No. 13 in Report of the Faculty relative to the Law Department be hereafter considered, and that the Exhibit accompanying it be typewritten under the Secretary's direction for the use of the Board.

The following communication was received from the Faculty and approved.

"In view of the protest by the M. A. Class in the School of Romance Languages in regard to the graduation of Mr. L Patton, be it

Resolved— That Professor R. H. Wilson should be required, promptly on his return from Europe, to explain to the Faculty and to the Visitors his failure and alleged refusal to comply with the laws of the University in respect to the holding of examinations.

That a copy of this resolution be sent to the Visitors for their approval, and that it be at once sent to Professor Wilson by an official letter."

Resolved- That the sum of $1000.00 be appropriated for the purchase of fourteen microscopes for the use of the Medical Department in accordance with the recommendation No. 14 of the Faculty.

Resolved: That the recommendations of the Faculty and all other matters relative to the Library be referred to the Library Committee for consideration and report at the next meeting of the Board.

Resolved: That the sum of $125000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated for the installation of a cold storage plant for the Anatomical Department and $10000 for the cost of running said plant one year.

Resolved- That the application of H. Norrick for an increase in salary, which is accompanied by the endorsement of the Proctor and Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings be granted, and said salary is increased to $100000 per annum.

This application is accompanied by the statement that no further request for increased compensation will hereafter be asked by this employee, and it is granted upon this understanding.

Resolved- That the disposition of the pavilion now occupied by Col. Peters be postponed until the October meeting of the Board.

Resolved- That the Proctor pay to Mr. Geo. W. Breck the sum of $2615, being amount of expenses paid by him in travelling from New York to Charlottesville, when he superintended the placing of the new copy of the School of Athens in the Auditorium, this sum being in full of the whole amount due to Mr. Breck.

The Finance Committee submitted its Report which upon being read and considered, on motion the same was received, approved, adopted, and ordered to be spread upon the minutes of the Board.

Said Report is in the following words and figures, to-wit

"Your Finance Committee respectfully reports the following

—Estimate of Receipts for the Session of 1902-3.—

Out of the Current Receipts the following disbursements are to be made:

———Itemized Statement of Expenditures Authorized———
