---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1904'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1904) June 13, 1904
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 13, 1904

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Receipts
--------

To Prof. A. H. Tuttle

$3,000.00

To Prof. W. M. Thornton

500.00

To Prof. F. P. Dunnington

500.00

To Instructor in Biology

800.00

To Three Scholarships @ $250.00

750.00

To Laboratory Equipment

450.00

$6,000.00

From Annuity by the State

50,000 00

From Miller Board

6,000 00

From Interest on Corcoran Endowment

6,000 00

From Interest on Kent Endowment

3,000 00

From Interest on Observatory Endowment

4,455 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Madison)

156 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Gordon)

300 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Byrd)

460 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Paul)

32 00

948 00

From Interest on Fellowship Endowment (Mason)

210 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Brown)

120 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Birely)

220 00

550 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for Old Debt

2,118 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for New Debt

537 00

2,655 00

From Interest on Bank balances

700 00

From Rents other than Dormitories—

(D. D. (Infirmary)

450 00

(Hotel, West Range

300 00

(Alumni Hall

420 00

(Mess Hall, Carr's Hill

(Dawson Cottage (Mr. Green)

125 00

(Tenant House (Barber)

@ $4.00

48 00

(Blacksmith Shop

@ $3.00

36 00

(Carr's Hill Tenant

150 00

1,329 00

From Lights other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

700 00

From Steam heat, other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

175 00

From Deferred payments on students' fees (estimated)

250 00

From Students' fees, rents, lights, &c. 650 @ $106.00

68,900 00

From Austin Estate, am't. estimated

9,262 00

From Cash balance in Proctor's hands at end of financial year 1903-'4.

3,165 27

— Expenditures. —

Salaries of Faculty and Instructors.

President

5,000 00

Professors

23 @ $3000.00

69,000 00

Associate Prof. & Director of Gym.

1 @

2,500 00

Adjunct Prof. of Engineering

1 @

1,500 00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 @

800 00

Adjunct Prof. of Biology & Pathology

1 @

1,000 00

79 800 00

158 089 27

Forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Instructors in Latin @ $200.00, $400.00, & $600.00

1,200 00

Instructor in Physics

1 @

1,300 00

Instructor in Engineering

2 @ $400.00

800 00

Instructor in Biology

1 @ $

800 00

Instructor in Moral Philosophy

1 @

350 00

84 250 00

Salaries of Officers

Proctor & Sup't. Grounds & Buildings

2,000 00

Librarian

1,150 00

Assistant Librarian

360 00

Secretary of Faculty

800 00

Secretary of Proctor & Gen'l. Bookkeeper

1,000 00

Secretary of Visitors

100 00

Commissioner of Accounts

150 00

5 560 00

Fellowships and Scholarships

Astronomical

3 @ $350.00

1,050 00

John Y. Mason

1 @

210 00

Teutonic Languages

1 @

200 00

Romance Languages

1 @

200 00

English Literature

1 @

200 00

Miller

3 @ $250.00

750 00

J. Thompson Brown

1 @

120 00

Valentine Birely

1 @

220 00

H. C. Cabell

1 @

50 00

3600

Interest and Sinking Fund

Interest on bonded debt (old)

5,170 00

Interest on bonded debt (new)

10,000 00

Sinking Fund old bonded debt

2,050 00

Sinking Fund new bonded debt

2,000 00

Sinking Fund Interest (for re-investment)

2,655 00

21 875

Wages of Employees.

University artisan (H. Noreck.)

1,000 00

Engineer Electric Plant (night) 12 mo.

1 @ $50.00

600 00

Engineer Electric Plant (day) 12 mos.

1 @ $40.00

480 00

Engineer Electric Plant & Steam 7 mos.

1 @ $50.00

385 00

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

@ $50.00

600 00

Night Policeman & Watchman

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-Rotunda & Library-

@ $25.00

300 00

Janitor - Anatomical Hall-

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, -12 mos.

1 @ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, - 9 mos.

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Janitor-Museum -12 mos.

@ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-Medical Hall - 9 mos.

@ $15.00

135 00

Forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Janitor-Chemical Laboratory

@ $15.00

135 00

Janitor - Gymnasium

@ $25.00

225 00

Janitor-Dispensary

@ $ 9.00

108 00

Janitor-s -Randall Building

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Chairman's Stenographer

1 @

600 00

Messenger, Chairman's Office

1 @ $10.00

120 00

Laborers, (1 year)

8 @ $18.00

1,728 00

Dormitory Servants, (9 mos.)

15 @

1,774 00

Working Expenses

4960

Advertising Department

3,000 00

Astronomical Department

405 00

Anatomical Department, per cap.

Operating refrigerating plant

100 00

Agr. & Biol. Dept. (ex. & equip.)

450 00

Catalogue and Bulletin

1,500 00

Contingent Fund

1,750 00

Commutation of Rents,

10 @ $300.00, 1 @ $60.00

3,060 00

Chemical Department

350 00

Chemical Department (Med.) per cap.

Dispensary

400 00

Diplomas

200 00

Engineering Department

300 00

Electric Light Department lamps & supplies

600 00

Fuel for heating and lighting

3,200 00

Gas for lighting, special for Library, Y.M.C.A., &c.

100 00

Hospital (general operating expenses)

3,650 00

Law Department (Library)

500 00

Med. Biology and Pathology, per cap.

Brooks Museum

25 00

Physical Department

300 00

Physical Department (Med.) per cap.

Printed Blanks

200 00

Reservoir and Water line

180 00

Library (Madison, Bordon, Byrd, & Paul)

948 00

Athletic Field horse (feed)

100 00

Repairs

5,000 00

Miscellaneous.

School of Methods

1,500 00

Law Library (Special)

500 00

Arc lights for drawing room

150 00

Alumni Banquet

150 00

Graduate Reception

150 00

Cercle Alliance Française

100 00

Liquifier for liquid air plant

325 00

Forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Extra instruction in English Literature

400 00

Balance St. Louis Exhibit appropriation

4,315 00

Special Improvement account

2,500 00

Balance estimated deficit

2,813 73

$160,903 00

160,903 00

The regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors was held at the University on the above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Moore, White, Harmon, and Downing.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, at 3 o'clock P. M.

The following reports were presented to the Board for consideration,—

Report of the Chairman of the Faculty,

Report of the Proctor,

Report of the Commissioner of Accounts,

Report of the Hospital Building Committee,

Reports of Various Schools, &c, &c.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board.-

Resolved: That the Valentine Birely Scholarship—in pursuance of the recommendation of A. S. Brown, Esq.—be and the same is hereby awarded Mr. Jesse W. Downey, Jr., for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the John Y. Mason, Fellowship be awarded to Mr. John W. Wayland, for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the committee, consisting of the members of the Medical Faculty and the Proctor, named in the resolution of the Board adopted April 19, 1904, respecting the Hospital, is directed to take all the necessary steps to complete a south wing to the Hospital at a cost not exceeding $31,000.00 the contract to be approved by Mr. Moon, attorney of the Board, The Chairman of the Executive Committee is added to said Committee. The said resolution is to this extent modified.

The following report of a Committee from the Miller Board, was presented, examined, approved, and adopted:-

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9.30 o'clock, June 14, 1904.

Pursuant to adjournment, the Board met at 9:30 A. M.

Present: The Rector and Visitors Moore, Downing, White, Harmon, and Buchanan, (Visitor Glass arriving at 11 A. M.).

Present; afternoon session, 3:00 P. M.- The above named, and Visitor Wallace.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

Resolved:- That in accordance with the recommendation of the director of the Observatory, Messrs. T. Mc N. Simpson, G. F. Paddock, and F. W. Reed, be appointed fellows in Astronomy for year 1904-'05.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed and authorized to inquire into the propriety of allowing the General Athletic Association to have the use of one of the upper rooms of Temperance Hall, and if he approves the same, to grant the application of the said Association.

Resolved: That Section 11 of the Regulations of the University as contained in the Catalogue, in regard to leave of absence from the University be extended so as to include the Dramatic Club.

Resolved: That the Board heartily commends the efforts proposed to be made by Dr. W. J. Humphreys to raise the funds necessary to provide further equipment for the Physical Laboratory.

Afternoon Session, 3 P.M.

Resolved: That Messrs. Harmon, Jones, Glass, Moore, and Hunton, be elected as the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors for the ensuing year.

Resolved: That the report of the Miller Trustees be approved, recommending the appointment of William A. Kepner as Instructor in Biology, at a salary of $800.00 per annum; and the selection of Frank T. Lewis for the Agricultural Scholarship from the Miller School; and Franklin P. Pyles for the Miller Scholarship, on competitive examination.

Resolved: That the sum of $400.00, in addition to the present allowance of $200.00 be appropriated for the appointment by Dr. Kent of an assistant or assistants in his School, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty that Mr. G. B. Davidson be allowed the privilege of taking books from the Library to be used elsewhere than at the University, be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. W. A. Lambeth be made Associate Professor in the Schools of Hygiene and Materia Medica, and continued as Director of the Gymnasium; that his salary be increased to $2500.00 per annum, and that this promotion entitles him to become a member of the Faculty.

Whereas, heretofore, pursuant to the terms and provisions of the statute relating to the government of the University, notice was duly given by publication that the Board would proceed at the meeting therein designated, to elect a President; and whereas the matter of such election was considered at the said meeting, and has been considered at all subsequent meetings, no conclusion being reached; and whereas the consideration of the said matter has always been regularly continued and adjourned from meeting to meeting, and whereas motion being now made that Dr. E. A. Alderman of Tulane University, La., be elected, therefore, it is now resolved by the unanimous vote of the Board, that Dr. Alderman be and he is now elected President of the University, and that the Rector be requested to communicate the fact to Dr. Alderman, and ascertain whether he will accept the position.

The question as to the time when the President will enter upon the duties of the office and all other details are postponed for consideration at a meeting to be held upon the call of the Rector, after he has been advised of Dr. Alderman's decision.

Whereas, the Washington Alumni Association has inaugurated a movement for securing an endowment fund of one million dollars for the University of Virginia, to be known as the Jefferson Fund of the University of Virginia, and

Whereas, an appeal is being made to all admirers of Mr. Jefferson and of his educational ideas in all parts of the country to contribute towards enabling his great foundation to widen its sphere of usefulness and to respond more perfectly to the educational demands of the age, and

Whereas, the present year which is witnessing the celebration of the centennial of Mr. Jefferson's great endowment of the territorial domain of this country brings before the American people more prominently than ever before his contribution to education and the potent influence the University has always exercised in the intellectual development of this country,

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Board of Visitors hereby approve most heartily the efforts now being inaugurated to raise this endowment fund, and give them their official sanction.

Resolved: That Dr. C. S. Venable, and Dr. W. D. Macon, be appointed Clinical Instructors, purusant to the recommendation of the Faculty.

Resolved: That W. F. Fruin be appointed Mechanician for the School of Physics, and that his compensation be remission of fees and room rent.

Resolved: That upon the recommendation of Dr. W. G. Christian, J. B. Pollard be appointed Demonstrator of Anatomy for next session.

Resolved: That the request of the Portsmouth, Va. Association of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to be listed among those entitled to fill a scholarship be granted.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty be appointed to represent the University at the meeting of the Association of State Universities at St. Louis, June 28th. The expense of the same to be charged to the amount appropriated for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Resolved: That the request of the Faculty that such of its members as have been invited to take part in the "International Congress of Science and Art" at St. Louis, be granted leave of absence from Sept. 19th to 26th, be approved. See page 111, Alumni Bulletin, April 1904.

Resolved: That the rule requiring 25 members for the organization of Alumni Associations be waived as to Porto Rico and the Philippines.

Resolved: That until the further order of the Board, the salary of Howard Winston as Secretary of the Faculty, be the sum of sixty-six dollars and sixty-six cents per month.

Resolved: That the salary of Dr. J. C. Flippin be increased to $1000.00 for the next session, and that he be designated as Adjunct Professor of Bacteriology for the session of 1904-'5.

Resolved: That the application of Prof. Thornton for two instructors at $400.00 each, instead of one at $600.00 as at present, be granted as recommended by the Faculty.

Resolved: That the sum of $325.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary is hereby appropriated for the purpose of installing an air liquifyer, in accordance with the request of Professor F. H. Smith.

On the recommendation of the Professor of Latin, be it resolved that Mr. Robert H. Webb be appointed Instructor in Latin at a Salary of $600.00; Mr. J. T. Walker, Tutor in Latin at a salary of $400.00; and Mr. James S. McLemore, Fellow in Latin at a salary of $200.00.

Resolved: That the request of Prof. James A. Harrison, be granted, that Mr. W. H. Faulkner be continued as Adjunct Professor of Teutonic Languages for next session—the compensation for his services so far as payable from the funds of the University, be two hundred dollars.

The report of Thos. H. Carter, Proctor, was read and considered—whereupon the Proctor is empowered to expend the sum of $2500.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary for improvements to the buildings and erections, as in his best judgment may be absolutely necessary, during the current year, the expenditure of the said sum to be with the approval of the Finance Committee.

Resolved: That the Applications of F. B. Winston, O. Humphries, V. Q. Ricks, Jeremiah Collins, H. W. Clowe, Jr., Frank C. Harris, A. K. Morrison, C. R. Williams, and C. L. Davis, for rebate on fees paid by them during the last session, be rejected.

Resolved: That one-third of the fees paid by A. M. Camp during the last session, be remitted.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty for a pro rata return of the fees paid by G. L. Dupre, for the past session be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. J. M. Page be continued as Chairman of the Faculty until the installation of the President.

The following standing committees were appointed by the Rector for the ensuing year:

Finance— Wallace, Harmon, and Downing.

Library and Apparatus — Moore, Hunton, and White.

Conduct of Schools, &c—Glass, Hunton, and Buchanan.

Buildings and Grounds—Downing, White, and Wallace.

Health, Infirmary, Sewerage,& Drainage—Buchanan, Harmon, & Wallace.

Miller Board Committee — Harmon, Glass, and Moore.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9:00 A. M., June 15, 1904.

Pursuant to adjournment the Board met at 9:00 A. M.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Wallace, White, and Buchanan.

On motion the following was adopted,-

Whereas, the Gilmore Furniture Company of Charlottesville, Va., has proposed to rent to our students for $12.00 per session, furniture as specified in their letter of March 16th, 1904, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, on consideration that the Proctor collect from the students taking advantage of this offer, and settle the same with the Gilmore Furniture Company—therefore, be it

Resolved: That whenever any student shall desire to take advantage of this offer, and shall deposit the necessary sum with the Proctor, he shall so notify the Gilmore Furniture Company, and pay over the said amount upon being notified of the delivery of the furniture.—It being understood that there is to be no liability on the University for injury or loss of the furniture, but only for the amount deposited as rent thereof.

This Board has at all times held in the highest regard the spirit of support and assistance always manifested by the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, but it records with unmeasured gratification the devotion of the said Association as disclosed in a resolution adopted on yesterday, and which it is directed shall be transcribed as a part of the minutes of the Session of the Board.

The resolution referred to, is as follows,-

Resolved: That the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia recognizes the supreme devotion of the Board of Visitors to the best interests of the University and pledges them its hearty support in all measures which they have taken, or may take connected with the election of a president.

The General Alumni Association having suggested that the Board of Visitors co-operate in their efforts to organize more effectually the Alumni of the University, and to obtain and preserve complete lists of such Alumni with a view to securing their active support and co-operation in the affairs of this institution.

Resolved, That the Board looks with approval upon the suggestion of the General Alumni Association, and stands ready at the proper time to give efficient aid to this movement.

The following is adopted as the estimated Receipts and Disbursements for the year 1904-'05, and ordered to be spread on the record:

Resolved: That the Rector take such steps as he may deem proper, either by the appointment of a committee, or otherwise, looking to a conference with Dr. Alderman touching his acceptance of the Presidency of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

At the call of the Rector, through the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Board assembled at 10:00 A. M. on above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors, Wallace, Hunton, Moore, Buchanan, Downing, and Harmon.

Upon the arrival of President-elect Alderman, the Board went into Executive Session, and at 1:30 P. M. adjourned subject to call of the Rector.

To Prof. A. H. Tuttle

$3,000.00

To Prof. W. M. Thornton

500.00

To Prof. F. P. Dunnington

500.00

To Instructor in Biology

800.00

To Three Scholarships @ $250.00

750.00

To Laboratory Equipment

450.00

$6,000.00

The regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors was held at the University on the above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Moore, White, Harmon, and Downing.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, at 3 o'clock P. M.

The following reports were presented to the Board for consideration,—

Report of the Chairman of the Faculty,

Report of the Proctor,

Report of the Commissioner of Accounts,

Report of the Hospital Building Committee,

Reports of Various Schools, &c, &c.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board.-

Resolved: That the Valentine Birely Scholarship—in pursuance of the recommendation of A. S. Brown, Esq.—be and the same is hereby awarded Mr. Jesse W. Downey, Jr., for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the John Y. Mason, Fellowship be awarded to Mr. John W. Wayland, for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the committee, consisting of the members of the Medical Faculty and the Proctor, named in the resolution of the Board adopted April 19, 1904, respecting the Hospital, is directed to take all the necessary steps to complete a south wing to the Hospital at a cost not exceeding $31,000.00 the contract to be approved by Mr. Moon, attorney of the Board, The Chairman of the Executive Committee is added to said Committee. The said resolution is to this extent modified.

The following report of a Committee from the Miller Board, was presented, examined, approved, and adopted:-

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9.30 o'clock, June 14, 1904.

Pursuant to adjournment, the Board met at 9:30 A. M.

Present: The Rector and Visitors Moore, Downing, White, Harmon, and Buchanan, (Visitor Glass arriving at 11 A. M.).

Present; afternoon session, 3:00 P. M.- The above named, and Visitor Wallace.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

Resolved:- That in accordance with the recommendation of the director of the Observatory, Messrs. T. Mc N. Simpson, G. F. Paddock, and F. W. Reed, be appointed fellows in Astronomy for year 1904-'05.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed and authorized to inquire into the propriety of allowing the General Athletic Association to have the use of one of the upper rooms of Temperance Hall, and if he approves the same, to grant the application of the said Association.

Resolved: That Section 11 of the Regulations of the University as contained in the Catalogue, in regard to leave of absence from the University be extended so as to include the Dramatic Club.

Resolved: That the Board heartily commends the efforts proposed to be made by Dr. W. J. Humphreys to raise the funds necessary to provide further equipment for the Physical Laboratory.

Afternoon Session, 3 P.M.

Resolved: That Messrs. Harmon, Jones, Glass, Moore, and Hunton, be elected as the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors for the ensuing year.

Resolved: That the report of the Miller Trustees be approved, recommending the appointment of William A. Kepner as Instructor in Biology, at a salary of $800.00 per annum; and the selection of Frank T. Lewis for the Agricultural Scholarship from the Miller School; and Franklin P. Pyles for the Miller Scholarship, on competitive examination.

Resolved: That the sum of $400.00, in addition to the present allowance of $200.00 be appropriated for the appointment by Dr. Kent of an assistant or assistants in his School, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty that Mr. G. B. Davidson be allowed the privilege of taking books from the Library to be used elsewhere than at the University, be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. W. A. Lambeth be made Associate Professor in the Schools of Hygiene and Materia Medica, and continued as Director of the Gymnasium; that his salary be increased to $2500.00 per annum, and that this promotion entitles him to become a member of the Faculty.

Whereas, heretofore, pursuant to the terms and provisions of the statute relating to the government of the University, notice was duly given by publication that the Board would proceed at the meeting therein designated, to elect a President; and whereas the matter of such election was considered at the said meeting, and has been considered at all subsequent meetings, no conclusion being reached; and whereas the consideration of the said matter has always been regularly continued and adjourned from meeting to meeting, and whereas motion being now made that Dr. E. A. Alderman of Tulane University, La., be elected, therefore, it is now resolved by the unanimous vote of the Board, that Dr. Alderman be and he is now elected President of the University, and that the Rector be requested to communicate the fact to Dr. Alderman, and ascertain whether he will accept the position.

The question as to the time when the President will enter upon the duties of the office and all other details are postponed for consideration at a meeting to be held upon the call of the Rector, after he has been advised of Dr. Alderman's decision.

Whereas, the Washington Alumni Association has inaugurated a movement for securing an endowment fund of one million dollars for the University of Virginia, to be known as the Jefferson Fund of the University of Virginia, and

Whereas, an appeal is being made to all admirers of Mr. Jefferson and of his educational ideas in all parts of the country to contribute towards enabling his great foundation to widen its sphere of usefulness and to respond more perfectly to the educational demands of the age, and

Whereas, the present year which is witnessing the celebration of the centennial of Mr. Jefferson's great endowment of the territorial domain of this country brings before the American people more prominently than ever before his contribution to education and the potent influence the University has always exercised in the intellectual development of this country,

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Board of Visitors hereby approve most heartily the efforts now being inaugurated to raise this endowment fund, and give them their official sanction.

Resolved: That Dr. C. S. Venable, and Dr. W. D. Macon, be appointed Clinical Instructors, purusant to the recommendation of the Faculty.

Resolved: That W. F. Fruin be appointed Mechanician for the School of Physics, and that his compensation be remission of fees and room rent.

Resolved: That upon the recommendation of Dr. W. G. Christian, J. B. Pollard be appointed Demonstrator of Anatomy for next session.

Resolved: That the request of the Portsmouth, Va. Association of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to be listed among those entitled to fill a scholarship be granted.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty be appointed to represent the University at the meeting of the Association of State Universities at St. Louis, June 28th. The expense of the same to be charged to the amount appropriated for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Resolved: That the request of the Faculty that such of its members as have been invited to take part in the "International Congress of Science and Art" at St. Louis, be granted leave of absence from Sept. 19th to 26th, be approved. See page 111, Alumni Bulletin, April 1904.

Resolved: That the rule requiring 25 members for the organization of Alumni Associations be waived as to Porto Rico and the Philippines.

Resolved: That until the further order of the Board, the salary of Howard Winston as Secretary of the Faculty, be the sum of sixty-six dollars and sixty-six cents per month.

Resolved: That the salary of Dr. J. C. Flippin be increased to $1000.00 for the next session, and that he be designated as Adjunct Professor of Bacteriology for the session of 1904-'5.

Resolved: That the application of Prof. Thornton for two instructors at $400.00 each, instead of one at $600.00 as at present, be granted as recommended by the Faculty.

Resolved: That the sum of $325.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary is hereby appropriated for the purpose of installing an air liquifyer, in accordance with the request of Professor F. H. Smith.

On the recommendation of the Professor of Latin, be it resolved that Mr. Robert H. Webb be appointed Instructor in Latin at a Salary of $600.00; Mr. J. T. Walker, Tutor in Latin at a salary of $400.00; and Mr. James S. McLemore, Fellow in Latin at a salary of $200.00.

Resolved: That the request of Prof. James A. Harrison, be granted, that Mr. W. H. Faulkner be continued as Adjunct Professor of Teutonic Languages for next session—the compensation for his services so far as payable from the funds of the University, be two hundred dollars.

The report of Thos. H. Carter, Proctor, was read and considered—whereupon the Proctor is empowered to expend the sum of $2500.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary for improvements to the buildings and erections, as in his best judgment may be absolutely necessary, during the current year, the expenditure of the said sum to be with the approval of the Finance Committee.

Resolved: That the Applications of F. B. Winston, O. Humphries, V. Q. Ricks, Jeremiah Collins, H. W. Clowe, Jr., Frank C. Harris, A. K. Morrison, C. R. Williams, and C. L. Davis, for rebate on fees paid by them during the last session, be rejected.

Resolved: That one-third of the fees paid by A. M. Camp during the last session, be remitted.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty for a pro rata return of the fees paid by G. L. Dupre, for the past session be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. J. M. Page be continued as Chairman of the Faculty until the installation of the President.

The following standing committees were appointed by the Rector for the ensuing year:

Finance— Wallace, Harmon, and Downing.

Library and Apparatus — Moore, Hunton, and White.

Conduct of Schools, &c—Glass, Hunton, and Buchanan.

Buildings and Grounds—Downing, White, and Wallace.

Health, Infirmary, Sewerage,& Drainage—Buchanan, Harmon, & Wallace.

Miller Board Committee — Harmon, Glass, and Moore.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9:00 A. M., June 15, 1904.

Receipts
--------

From Annuity by the State

50,000 00

From Miller Board

6,000 00

From Interest on Corcoran Endowment

6,000 00

From Interest on Kent Endowment

3,000 00

From Interest on Observatory Endowment

4,455 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Madison)

156 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Gordon)

300 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Byrd)

460 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Paul)

32 00

948 00

From Interest on Fellowship Endowment (Mason)

210 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Brown)

120 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Birely)

220 00

550 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for Old Debt

2,118 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for New Debt

537 00

2,655 00

From Interest on Bank balances

700 00

From Rents other than Dormitories—

(D. D. (Infirmary)

450 00

(Hotel, West Range

300 00

(Alumni Hall

420 00

(Mess Hall, Carr's Hill

(Dawson Cottage (Mr. Green)

125 00

(Tenant House (Barber)

@ $4.00

48 00

(Blacksmith Shop

@ $3.00

36 00

(Carr's Hill Tenant

150 00

1,329 00

From Lights other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

700 00

From Steam heat, other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

175 00

From Deferred payments on students' fees (estimated)

250 00

From Students' fees, rents, lights, &c. 650 @ $106.00

68,900 00

From Austin Estate, am't. estimated

9,262 00

From Cash balance in Proctor's hands at end of financial year 1903-'4.

3,165 27

— Expenditures. —

Salaries of Faculty and Instructors.

President

5,000 00

Professors

23 @ $3000.00

69,000 00

Associate Prof. & Director of Gym.

1 @

2,500 00

Adjunct Prof. of Engineering

1 @

1,500 00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 @

800 00

Adjunct Prof. of Biology & Pathology

1 @

1,000 00

79 800 00

158 089 27

Forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Instructors in Latin @ $200.00, $400.00, & $600.00

1,200 00

Instructor in Physics

1 @

1,300 00

Instructor in Engineering

2 @ $400.00

800 00

Instructor in Biology

1 @ $

800 00

Instructor in Moral Philosophy

1 @

350 00

84 250 00

Salaries of Officers

Proctor & Sup't. Grounds & Buildings

2,000 00

Librarian

1,150 00

Assistant Librarian

360 00

Secretary of Faculty

800 00

Secretary of Proctor & Gen'l. Bookkeeper

1,000 00

Secretary of Visitors

100 00

Commissioner of Accounts

150 00

5 560 00

Fellowships and Scholarships

Astronomical

3 @ $350.00

1,050 00

John Y. Mason

1 @

210 00

Teutonic Languages

1 @

200 00

Romance Languages

1 @

200 00

English Literature

1 @

200 00

Miller

3 @ $250.00

750 00

J. Thompson Brown

1 @

120 00

Valentine Birely

1 @

220 00

H. C. Cabell

1 @

50 00

3600

Interest and Sinking Fund

Interest on bonded debt (old)

5,170 00

Interest on bonded debt (new)

10,000 00

Sinking Fund old bonded debt

2,050 00

Sinking Fund new bonded debt

2,000 00

Sinking Fund Interest (for re-investment)

2,655 00

21 875

Wages of Employees.

University artisan (H. Noreck.)

1,000 00

Engineer Electric Plant (night) 12 mo.

1 @ $50.00

600 00

Engineer Electric Plant (day) 12 mos.

1 @ $40.00

480 00

Engineer Electric Plant & Steam 7 mos.

1 @ $50.00

385 00

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

@ $50.00

600 00

Night Policeman & Watchman

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-Rotunda & Library-

@ $25.00

300 00

Janitor - Anatomical Hall-

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, -12 mos.

1 @ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, - 9 mos.

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Janitor-Museum -12 mos.

@ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-Medical Hall - 9 mos.

@ $15.00

135 00

Forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Janitor-Chemical Laboratory

@ $15.00

135 00

Janitor - Gymnasium

@ $25.00

225 00

Janitor-Dispensary

@ $ 9.00

108 00

Janitor-s -Randall Building

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Chairman's Stenographer

1 @

600 00

Messenger, Chairman's Office

1 @ $10.00

120 00

Laborers, (1 year)

8 @ $18.00

1,728 00

Dormitory Servants, (9 mos.)

15 @

1,774 00

Working Expenses

4960

Advertising Department

3,000 00

Astronomical Department

405 00

Anatomical Department, per cap.

Operating refrigerating plant

100 00

Agr. & Biol. Dept. (ex. & equip.)

450 00

Catalogue and Bulletin

1,500 00

Contingent Fund

1,750 00

Commutation of Rents,

10 @ $300.00, 1 @ $60.00

3,060 00

Chemical Department

350 00

Chemical Department (Med.) per cap.

Dispensary

400 00

Diplomas

200 00

Engineering Department

300 00

Electric Light Department lamps & supplies

600 00

Fuel for heating and lighting

3,200 00

Gas for lighting, special for Library, Y.M.C.A., &c.

100 00

Hospital (general operating expenses)

3,650 00

Law Department (Library)

500 00

Med. Biology and Pathology, per cap.

Brooks Museum

25 00

Physical Department

300 00

Physical Department (Med.) per cap.

Printed Blanks

200 00

Reservoir and Water line

180 00

Library (Madison, Bordon, Byrd, & Paul)

948 00

Athletic Field horse (feed)

100 00

Repairs

5,000 00

Miscellaneous.

School of Methods

1,500 00

Law Library (Special)

500 00

Arc lights for drawing room

150 00

Alumni Banquet

150 00

Graduate Reception

150 00

Cercle Alliance Française

100 00

Liquifier for liquid air plant

325 00

Forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Extra instruction in English Literature

400 00

Balance St. Louis Exhibit appropriation

4,315 00

Special Improvement account

2,500 00

Balance estimated deficit

2,813 73

$160,903 00

160,903 00

Pursuant to adjournment the Board met at 9:00 A. M.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Wallace, White, and Buchanan.

On motion the following was adopted,-

Whereas, the Gilmore Furniture Company of Charlottesville, Va., has proposed to rent to our students for $12.00 per session, furniture as specified in their letter of March 16th, 1904, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, on consideration that the Proctor collect from the students taking advantage of this offer, and settle the same with the Gilmore Furniture Company—therefore, be it

Resolved: That whenever any student shall desire to take advantage of this offer, and shall deposit the necessary sum with the Proctor, he shall so notify the Gilmore Furniture Company, and pay over the said amount upon being notified of the delivery of the furniture.—It being understood that there is to be no liability on the University for injury or loss of the furniture, but only for the amount deposited as rent thereof.

This Board has at all times held in the highest regard the spirit of support and assistance always manifested by the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, but it records with unmeasured gratification the devotion of the said Association as disclosed in a resolution adopted on yesterday, and which it is directed shall be transcribed as a part of the minutes of the Session of the Board.

The resolution referred to, is as follows,-

Resolved: That the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia recognizes the supreme devotion of the Board of Visitors to the best interests of the University and pledges them its hearty support in all measures which they have taken, or may take connected with the election of a president.

The General Alumni Association having suggested that the Board of Visitors co-operate in their efforts to organize more effectually the Alumni of the University, and to obtain and preserve complete lists of such Alumni with a view to securing their active support and co-operation in the affairs of this institution.

Resolved, That the Board looks with approval upon the suggestion of the General Alumni Association, and stands ready at the proper time to give efficient aid to this movement.

The following is adopted as the estimated Receipts and Disbursements for the year 1904-'05, and ordered to be spread on the record:

Resolved: That the Rector take such steps as he may deem proper, either by the appointment of a committee, or otherwise, looking to a conference with Dr. Alderman touching his acceptance of the Presidency of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

At the call of the Rector, through the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Board assembled at 10:00 A. M. on above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors, Wallace, Hunton, Moore, Buchanan, Downing, and Harmon.

Upon the arrival of President-elect Alderman, the Board went into Executive Session, and at 1:30 P. M. adjourned subject to call of the Rector.

To Prof. A. H. Tuttle

$3,000.00

To Prof. W. M. Thornton

500.00

To Prof. F. P. Dunnington

500.00

To Instructor in Biology

800.00

To Three Scholarships @ $250.00

750.00

To Laboratory Equipment

450.00

$6,000.00

The regular annual meeting of the Board of Visitors was held at the University on the above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Moore, White, Harmon, and Downing.

The Board was called to order by the Rector, at 3 o'clock P. M.

The following reports were presented to the Board for consideration,—

Report of the Chairman of the Faculty,

Report of the Proctor,

Report of the Commissioner of Accounts,

Report of the Hospital Building Committee,

Reports of Various Schools, &c, &c.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board.-

Resolved: That the Valentine Birely Scholarship—in pursuance of the recommendation of A. S. Brown, Esq.—be and the same is hereby awarded Mr. Jesse W. Downey, Jr., for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the John Y. Mason, Fellowship be awarded to Mr. John W. Wayland, for the session 1904-1905.

Resolved: That the committee, consisting of the members of the Medical Faculty and the Proctor, named in the resolution of the Board adopted April 19, 1904, respecting the Hospital, is directed to take all the necessary steps to complete a south wing to the Hospital at a cost not exceeding $31,000.00 the contract to be approved by Mr. Moon, attorney of the Board, The Chairman of the Executive Committee is added to said Committee. The said resolution is to this extent modified.

The following report of a Committee from the Miller Board, was presented, examined, approved, and adopted:-

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9.30 o'clock, June 14, 1904.

Pursuant to adjournment, the Board met at 9:30 A. M.

Present: The Rector and Visitors Moore, Downing, White, Harmon, and Buchanan, (Visitor Glass arriving at 11 A. M.).

Present; afternoon session, 3:00 P. M.- The above named, and Visitor Wallace.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

Resolved:- That in accordance with the recommendation of the director of the Observatory, Messrs. T. Mc N. Simpson, G. F. Paddock, and F. W. Reed, be appointed fellows in Astronomy for year 1904-'05.

Resolved: That the Proctor is hereby directed and authorized to inquire into the propriety of allowing the General Athletic Association to have the use of one of the upper rooms of Temperance Hall, and if he approves the same, to grant the application of the said Association.

Resolved: That Section 11 of the Regulations of the University as contained in the Catalogue, in regard to leave of absence from the University be extended so as to include the Dramatic Club.

Resolved: That the Board heartily commends the efforts proposed to be made by Dr. W. J. Humphreys to raise the funds necessary to provide further equipment for the Physical Laboratory.

Afternoon Session, 3 P.M.

Resolved: That Messrs. Harmon, Jones, Glass, Moore, and Hunton, be elected as the Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors for the ensuing year.

Resolved: That the report of the Miller Trustees be approved, recommending the appointment of William A. Kepner as Instructor in Biology, at a salary of $800.00 per annum; and the selection of Frank T. Lewis for the Agricultural Scholarship from the Miller School; and Franklin P. Pyles for the Miller Scholarship, on competitive examination.

Resolved: That the sum of $400.00, in addition to the present allowance of $200.00 be appropriated for the appointment by Dr. Kent of an assistant or assistants in his School, subject to the approval of the Executive Committee.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty that Mr. G. B. Davidson be allowed the privilege of taking books from the Library to be used elsewhere than at the University, be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. W. A. Lambeth be made Associate Professor in the Schools of Hygiene and Materia Medica, and continued as Director of the Gymnasium; that his salary be increased to $2500.00 per annum, and that this promotion entitles him to become a member of the Faculty.

Whereas, heretofore, pursuant to the terms and provisions of the statute relating to the government of the University, notice was duly given by publication that the Board would proceed at the meeting therein designated, to elect a President; and whereas the matter of such election was considered at the said meeting, and has been considered at all subsequent meetings, no conclusion being reached; and whereas the consideration of the said matter has always been regularly continued and adjourned from meeting to meeting, and whereas motion being now made that Dr. E. A. Alderman of Tulane University, La., be elected, therefore, it is now resolved by the unanimous vote of the Board, that Dr. Alderman be and he is now elected President of the University, and that the Rector be requested to communicate the fact to Dr. Alderman, and ascertain whether he will accept the position.

The question as to the time when the President will enter upon the duties of the office and all other details are postponed for consideration at a meeting to be held upon the call of the Rector, after he has been advised of Dr. Alderman's decision.

Whereas, the Washington Alumni Association has inaugurated a movement for securing an endowment fund of one million dollars for the University of Virginia, to be known as the Jefferson Fund of the University of Virginia, and

Whereas, an appeal is being made to all admirers of Mr. Jefferson and of his educational ideas in all parts of the country to contribute towards enabling his great foundation to widen its sphere of usefulness and to respond more perfectly to the educational demands of the age, and

Whereas, the present year which is witnessing the celebration of the centennial of Mr. Jefferson's great endowment of the territorial domain of this country brings before the American people more prominently than ever before his contribution to education and the potent influence the University has always exercised in the intellectual development of this country,

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Board of Visitors hereby approve most heartily the efforts now being inaugurated to raise this endowment fund, and give them their official sanction.

Resolved: That Dr. C. S. Venable, and Dr. W. D. Macon, be appointed Clinical Instructors, purusant to the recommendation of the Faculty.

Resolved: That W. F. Fruin be appointed Mechanician for the School of Physics, and that his compensation be remission of fees and room rent.

Resolved: That upon the recommendation of Dr. W. G. Christian, J. B. Pollard be appointed Demonstrator of Anatomy for next session.

Resolved: That the request of the Portsmouth, Va. Association of the Alumni of the University of Virginia, to be listed among those entitled to fill a scholarship be granted.

Resolved: That the Chairman of the Faculty be appointed to represent the University at the meeting of the Association of State Universities at St. Louis, June 28th. The expense of the same to be charged to the amount appropriated for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition.

Resolved: That the request of the Faculty that such of its members as have been invited to take part in the "International Congress of Science and Art" at St. Louis, be granted leave of absence from Sept. 19th to 26th, be approved. See page 111, Alumni Bulletin, April 1904.

Resolved: That the rule requiring 25 members for the organization of Alumni Associations be waived as to Porto Rico and the Philippines.

Resolved: That until the further order of the Board, the salary of Howard Winston as Secretary of the Faculty, be the sum of sixty-six dollars and sixty-six cents per month.

Resolved: That the salary of Dr. J. C. Flippin be increased to $1000.00 for the next session, and that he be designated as Adjunct Professor of Bacteriology for the session of 1904-'5.

Resolved: That the application of Prof. Thornton for two instructors at $400.00 each, instead of one at $600.00 as at present, be granted as recommended by the Faculty.

Resolved: That the sum of $325.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary is hereby appropriated for the purpose of installing an air liquifyer, in accordance with the request of Professor F. H. Smith.

On the recommendation of the Professor of Latin, be it resolved that Mr. Robert H. Webb be appointed Instructor in Latin at a Salary of $600.00; Mr. J. T. Walker, Tutor in Latin at a salary of $400.00; and Mr. James S. McLemore, Fellow in Latin at a salary of $200.00.

Resolved: That the request of Prof. James A. Harrison, be granted, that Mr. W. H. Faulkner be continued as Adjunct Professor of Teutonic Languages for next session—the compensation for his services so far as payable from the funds of the University, be two hundred dollars.

The report of Thos. H. Carter, Proctor, was read and considered—whereupon the Proctor is empowered to expend the sum of $2500.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary for improvements to the buildings and erections, as in his best judgment may be absolutely necessary, during the current year, the expenditure of the said sum to be with the approval of the Finance Committee.

Resolved: That the Applications of F. B. Winston, O. Humphries, V. Q. Ricks, Jeremiah Collins, H. W. Clowe, Jr., Frank C. Harris, A. K. Morrison, C. R. Williams, and C. L. Davis, for rebate on fees paid by them during the last session, be rejected.

Resolved: That one-third of the fees paid by A. M. Camp during the last session, be remitted.

Resolved: That the recommendation of the Faculty for a pro rata return of the fees paid by G. L. Dupre, for the past session be approved.

Resolved: That Dr. J. M. Page be continued as Chairman of the Faculty until the installation of the President.

The following standing committees were appointed by the Rector for the ensuing year:

Finance— Wallace, Harmon, and Downing.

Library and Apparatus — Moore, Hunton, and White.

Conduct of Schools, &c—Glass, Hunton, and Buchanan.

Buildings and Grounds—Downing, White, and Wallace.

Health, Infirmary, Sewerage,& Drainage—Buchanan, Harmon, & Wallace.

Miller Board Committee — Harmon, Glass, and Moore.

On motion the Board adjourned to meet at 9:00 A. M., June 15, 1904.

Receipts
--------

From Annuity by the State

50,000 00

From Miller Board

6,000 00

From Interest on Corcoran Endowment

6,000 00

From Interest on Kent Endowment

3,000 00

From Interest on Observatory Endowment

4,455 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Madison)

156 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Gordon)

300 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Byrd)

460 00

From Interest on Library Endowment (Paul)

32 00

948 00

From Interest on Fellowship Endowment (Mason)

210 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Brown)

120 00

From Interest on Scholarship Endowment (Birely)

220 00

550 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for Old Debt

2,118 00

From Interest on Sinking Fund for New Debt

537 00

2,655 00

From Interest on Bank balances

700 00

From Rents other than Dormitories—

(D. D. (Infirmary)

450 00

(Hotel, West Range

300 00

(Alumni Hall

420 00

(Mess Hall, Carr's Hill

(Dawson Cottage (Mr. Green)

125 00

(Tenant House (Barber)

@ $4.00

48 00

(Blacksmith Shop

@ $3.00

36 00

(Carr's Hill Tenant

150 00

1,329 00

From Lights other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

700 00

From Steam heat, other than Dormitories, (residents on grounds)—

175 00

From Deferred payments on students' fees (estimated)

250 00

From Students' fees, rents, lights, &c. 650 @ $106.00

68,900 00

From Austin Estate, am't. estimated

9,262 00

From Cash balance in Proctor's hands at end of financial year 1903-'4.

3,165 27

— Expenditures. —

Salaries of Faculty and Instructors.

President

5,000 00

Professors

23 @ $3000.00

69,000 00

Associate Prof. & Director of Gym.

1 @

2,500 00

Adjunct Prof. of Engineering

1 @

1,500 00

Demonstrator of Anatomy

1 @

800 00

Adjunct Prof. of Biology & Pathology

1 @

1,000 00

79 800 00

158 089 27

Forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$ 79,800 00

158,089 27

Instructors in Latin @ $200.00, $400.00, & $600.00

1,200 00

Instructor in Physics

1 @

1,300 00

Instructor in Engineering

2 @ $400.00

800 00

Instructor in Biology

1 @ $

800 00

Instructor in Moral Philosophy

1 @

350 00

84 250 00

Salaries of Officers

Proctor & Sup't. Grounds & Buildings

2,000 00

Librarian

1,150 00

Assistant Librarian

360 00

Secretary of Faculty

800 00

Secretary of Proctor & Gen'l. Bookkeeper

1,000 00

Secretary of Visitors

100 00

Commissioner of Accounts

150 00

5 560 00

Fellowships and Scholarships

Astronomical

3 @ $350.00

1,050 00

John Y. Mason

1 @

210 00

Teutonic Languages

1 @

200 00

Romance Languages

1 @

200 00

English Literature

1 @

200 00

Miller

3 @ $250.00

750 00

J. Thompson Brown

1 @

120 00

Valentine Birely

1 @

220 00

H. C. Cabell

1 @

50 00

3600

Interest and Sinking Fund

Interest on bonded debt (old)

5,170 00

Interest on bonded debt (new)

10,000 00

Sinking Fund old bonded debt

2,050 00

Sinking Fund new bonded debt

2,000 00

Sinking Fund Interest (for re-investment)

2,655 00

21 875

Wages of Employees.

University artisan (H. Noreck.)

1,000 00

Engineer Electric Plant (night) 12 mo.

1 @ $50.00

600 00

Engineer Electric Plant (day) 12 mos.

1 @ $40.00

480 00

Engineer Electric Plant & Steam 7 mos.

1 @ $50.00

385 00

Day Policeman & Boss of hands

@ $50.00

600 00

Night Policeman & Watchman

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-Rotunda & Library-

@ $25.00

300 00

Janitor - Anatomical Hall-

@ $30.00

360 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, -12 mos.

1 @ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-s-New Buildings, - 9 mos.

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Janitor-Museum -12 mos.

@ $15.00

180 00

Janitor-Medical Hall - 9 mos.

@ $15.00

135 00

Forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$119,535 00

158,089 27

Janitor-Chemical Laboratory

@ $15.00

135 00

Janitor - Gymnasium

@ $25.00

225 00

Janitor-Dispensary

@ $ 9.00

108 00

Janitor-s -Randall Building

2 @ $15.00

270 00

Chairman's Stenographer

1 @

600 00

Messenger, Chairman's Office

1 @ $10.00

120 00

Laborers, (1 year)

8 @ $18.00

1,728 00

Dormitory Servants, (9 mos.)

15 @

1,774 00

Working Expenses

4960

Advertising Department

3,000 00

Astronomical Department

405 00

Anatomical Department, per cap.

Operating refrigerating plant

100 00

Agr. & Biol. Dept. (ex. & equip.)

450 00

Catalogue and Bulletin

1,500 00

Contingent Fund

1,750 00

Commutation of Rents,

10 @ $300.00, 1 @ $60.00

3,060 00

Chemical Department

350 00

Chemical Department (Med.) per cap.

Dispensary

400 00

Diplomas

200 00

Engineering Department

300 00

Electric Light Department lamps & supplies

600 00

Fuel for heating and lighting

3,200 00

Gas for lighting, special for Library, Y.M.C.A., &c.

100 00

Hospital (general operating expenses)

3,650 00

Law Department (Library)

500 00

Med. Biology and Pathology, per cap.

Brooks Museum

25 00

Physical Department

300 00

Physical Department (Med.) per cap.

Printed Blanks

200 00

Reservoir and Water line

180 00

Library (Madison, Bordon, Byrd, & Paul)

948 00

Athletic Field horse (feed)

100 00

Repairs

5,000 00

Miscellaneous.

School of Methods

1,500 00

Law Library (Special)

500 00

Arc lights for drawing room

150 00

Alumni Banquet

150 00

Graduate Reception

150 00

Cercle Alliance Française

100 00

Liquifier for liquid air plant

325 00

Forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Brought forward

$153,688 00

158,089 27

Extra instruction in English Literature

400 00

Balance St. Louis Exhibit appropriation

4,315 00

Special Improvement account

2,500 00

Balance estimated deficit

2,813 73

$160,903 00

160,903 00

Pursuant to adjournment the Board met at 9:00 A. M.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Wallace, White, and Buchanan.

On motion the following was adopted,-

Whereas, the Gilmore Furniture Company of Charlottesville, Va., has proposed to rent to our students for $12.00 per session, furniture as specified in their letter of March 16th, 1904, addressed to the Chairman of the Faculty, on consideration that the Proctor collect from the students taking advantage of this offer, and settle the same with the Gilmore Furniture Company—therefore, be it

Resolved: That whenever any student shall desire to take advantage of this offer, and shall deposit the necessary sum with the Proctor, he shall so notify the Gilmore Furniture Company, and pay over the said amount upon being notified of the delivery of the furniture.—It being understood that there is to be no liability on the University for injury or loss of the furniture, but only for the amount deposited as rent thereof.

This Board has at all times held in the highest regard the spirit of support and assistance always manifested by the General Alumni Association of the University of Virginia, but it records with unmeasured gratification the devotion of the said Association as disclosed in a resolution adopted on yesterday, and which it is directed shall be transcribed as a part of the minutes of the Session of the Board.

The resolution referred to, is as follows,-

Resolved: That the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia recognizes the supreme devotion of the Board of Visitors to the best interests of the University and pledges them its hearty support in all measures which they have taken, or may take connected with the election of a president.

The General Alumni Association having suggested that the Board of Visitors co-operate in their efforts to organize more effectually the Alumni of the University, and to obtain and preserve complete lists of such Alumni with a view to securing their active support and co-operation in the affairs of this institution.

Resolved, That the Board looks with approval upon the suggestion of the General Alumni Association, and stands ready at the proper time to give efficient aid to this movement.

The following is adopted as the estimated Receipts and Disbursements for the year 1904-'05, and ordered to be spread on the record:

Resolved: That the Rector take such steps as he may deem proper, either by the appointment of a committee, or otherwise, looking to a conference with Dr. Alderman touching his acceptance of the Presidency of the University.

On motion the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

At the call of the Rector, through the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Board assembled at 10:00 A. M. on above date.

Present: The Rector, and Visitors, Wallace, Hunton, Moore, Buchanan, Downing, and Harmon.

Upon the arrival of President-elect Alderman, the Board went into Executive Session, and at 1:30 P. M. adjourned subject to call of the Rector.
