---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1908'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1908) June 15, 1908
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 15, 1908

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

— I. —— II. —— III. —— IV. —
----------------------------

Securities.

Trustees Valuation.

Read & Co. Valuation.

Loss or Gain.

200 Shrs.

National Bank of Commerce,

$26,094.99

$32,000. +

$5,905.01

100 Shrs.

Second National Bank (Boston)

22,600.00

22,000. -

600.00

50 Shrs.

Ogdensburg & L. Champlain R. R.

250.00

\-

250.00

150 Shrs.

Newtonville & Watertown St. Ry. Co.,

27,000.00

24,450. -

2,550.00

25 Shrs.

East Middlesex St. Ry. Co.,

4,125.00

5,500.

\+ 1,375.00

34 Shrs.

Winnisimmet R. R. Co.,

2,250.00

2,244.

\- 306.00

50\. Shrs.

Boston Elevated Ry. Co.

4,611.25

6,750.

\+ 2,138.75

150 Shrs.

Fitchburg R. R. Co. (Pref'd)

12,137.50

19,350.

\+ 7,212.50

200 Shrs.

Boston & Albany R. R.

41,407.37

40,600.

\- 807.37

250\. Shrs.

Boston & Lowell R. R. Co.

50,314.67

52,500.

\+ 2,185.33

200\. Shrs.

Old Colony R. R. Co.

35,544.74

37,000.

\+ 1,455.26

100 Shrs.

New York, New Haven & Hartford, R. R. Co.,

22,061.75

13,600.

\- 8,461.75

250 Shrs.

Mass. Gas. Co. (Pref'd)

21,500.00

21,500.

$45,000

bonds American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 4's,

42,650.00

36,900.

\- 5,750.00

4,000

bonds New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. on which 1st, 2nd, & 3rd subscription of 75% has been paid, amounting to

3,000.00

2,600.

\- 400.00

$315,847.27

$316,994

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at 10 00 A. M. on above date, in the President's Office,

Present The Rector, and Visitors White, Craddock, Drewry, Shackelford, Harmon, Irvine, and Norton,

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and the following adopted,-

Resolved: That the Report on the James Fund, presented by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, be recorded and filed together with exhibits.

The Report follows:-

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia -

Your Finance Committee beg leave to report that, in pursuance of your Resolution of April 10, 1908, it has arranged with "The Virginia Trust Company" of Richmond, Virginia, for the safe keeping of the securities, and the collection of interest and dividends thereon, of the estate of the late E. W. James, and presents herewith the following exhibits covering the details of the arrangement, including the transfer of securities from the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts to the Virginia Trust Company

Exhibit A, which is a copy of Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, giving the list of securities turned over to the Virginia Trust Company; par value of which is $160,578.64, appraised value $200,338.64, less 28 shares of Marine Bank Stock, appraised at $7,560.00, which was delivered, February 5, 1908, to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys, Norfolk, Virginia, for the University, and including Certificate No. 26, for one (1) share Richmond Club stock, par value $100.00, appraised at $40.00, and showing a credit of $33.00 paid on account of distribution of assets. This certificate not being listed.

The 28 shares of Marine Bank stock above referred to, was taken by Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, as a part of their fee. All of which, together with settlement with the legatees and claimants against the estate of Mr. James, will appear from the letter of Mr. W. H. White to the Rector, dated February 6th, 1908, and herewith filed, marked Exhibit "X".

Exhibit B. Personal effects listed in Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, consisting principally of books, papers, watches, forks, spoons, &c.

Exhibit C. Letter from Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President of the Virginia Trust Company, date June 1, 1908, to Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, Norfolk, Virginia.

Exhibit D. Reply of W. W. Vicar, Cashier, to Virginia Trust Company. Date, June 4, 1908.

Exhibit E. Copy of resolution of Board of Visitors of the University, authorizing Finance Committee to arrange with the Virginia Trust Company for the safe-keeping and other necessary duties pertaining to the securities of the estate of the late E. W. James.

Exhibit F. Collections reported by the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, proceeds of which were paid over to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys for the University of Virginia.

Exhibit G. Letters, May 29, 1908, from Finance Committee U. of V., signed John W. Craddock and W. H. White, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts and the Virginia Trust Company, with instructions as to the delivery of securities in the James estate.

Exhibit H Letter of Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President, June 6, 1908, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, acknowledging receipt of securities as shown in Exhibit A, with the exceptions noted in this report.

Referring to the resolution adopted at the meeting of the Board held the 10th of April, wherein it was provided that the Finance Committee should sell the "Stump Haul Fishery" in Princess Anne Co., (the same being a part of the Estate of Mr. James), provided the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars could be obtained therefor,

It is now resolved,- That the said Committee is authorized to sell said property, if so much as Forty Thousand can be obtained therefor. This change in price is largely induced by the discovery that acreage is only 241 instead of 425 as heretofore estimated.

It appearing that notice having been given as required by statute of the purpose of the Board of Visitors to elect a professor of Pathology, now, therefore, Dr. Harry Taylor Marshall, having received the votes of the members of the Board present, is elected to the chair of Pathology at a salary of $3,000.00 per annum, to enter upon his duties October 1st, 1908.

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia appreciate the high purpose of Mr. Andrew Carnegie in establishing the "Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching." They perceive clearly, its far-reaching and beneficient results in advancing the dignity of the teacher's office, in protecting the old age of unselfish public servants, and in increasing the efficiency and promoting the elevation of the standards in American Colleges and Universities.

They, therefore desire that the University of Virginia shall participate in the benefits of this Foundation, and hereby make application for the admission of the University of Virginia into all the rights and privileges of the "Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching."

The resignation of Adjunct Professor C. M. McKergow of the Engineering Department of the University was presented to the Board, through the following letter to President Alderman:

Please accept my resignation as Adjunct Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Virginia, effective Sept. 15th, 1908.

On motion, it was resolved,- That the resignation of Mr. McKergow be accepted by the Board, and that the President be authorized to convey the regrets of the Board to Mr. McKergow.

On motion, it was resolved That Mr. Charles Hancock be elected Adjunct Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of Virginia, at a salary of $1,500.00 per annum, to enter upon his duties September 10, 1908.

Resolved: (a) That a sum not exceeding $2,000.00 be appropriated for the purchase and installation of a mechanical refrigeration plant for the University Dining-Hall, which is made necessary in order to reduce the cost of supplies.

(Memo: It will be recalled that this money will have to be taken from the general appropriation of $65,000.00 made by the last legislature.)

(b) Resolved: That the appointment of a stenographer and accountant for the office of the Bursar and Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds be authorized at a salary of $50.00 per month, the salary to be paid from the following funds: Appropriation for Buildings and Grounds $200.00, Summer School $200.00; and Dining Hall $200.00.

(c) Resolved: That H. C. Bardin be and he is hereby appointed Superintendent of the Dining Hall for the term beginning June 15th, 1908, at a salary of $1,800.00 per annum, and shall be subject to such rules and regulations as the Faculty Committee on Dining Hall may deem proper.

Resolved that final action on the recommendation of the General Faculty regarding changes in the Bachelor of Arts degree be postponed until the October meeting of the Board of Visitors.

The Rector filed the resolutions of the several Alumni Associations in regard to this degree, which have been forwarded to him.

Resolved: That the filling of the full professorships in Chemistry and Physics be postponed until the session of 1908-'9.

(Memo The Rector will recall the reasons given by the President, setting forth the impossibility of supplying these places, or of finding suitable men for recommendation to the Board. He will also recall that the present budget does not provide for the carrying of the two new full professors for the year 1908-1909.)

The following resolution presented by the President and adopted by the General Faculty, May 23rd, 1908, was at this time, adopted by the Board,-

"The General Faculty and the President recommend to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the various existing schools of science and such schools of science as may hereafter be created, including the Department of Agriculture, be organized into a Department of Science, either as a separate department, or in a relation to some other department now existing in the University. The recent large expansion of several of these schools suggests this organization, and the needs of our society for trained teachers of science, for scientific experts, and for scientific-minded men in industrial life demand it. The nature of the organization of this department, as well as the scope and content of its curriculum, are now before the faculties involved, and a definite recommendation concerning these matters will be hereafter sub- mitted to the Rector and Visitors for final action.

Resolved: That the Board adopts the above recommendation of the General Faculty and President and postpones further and more definite action until the final recommendation framed by the Faculty and President has been received.

The letter of the Miller Board follows

I am directed by the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia to transmit to you to be laid before your Board, the following resolutions of the Miller Board of Trustees of the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia, adopted at their meeting held on Saturday, June 13th, 1908:-

"The Trustees of the Miller Fund earnestly desiring the widest efficiency of the instruction provided for the University under the terms of the deed of trust have carefully considered the proposal to change the name of the Department of Agriculture to that of the Department of Science and to enlarge its scope. They cordially approve the proposed change of name, with the express understanding that the School of Agriculture called for by the terms of Mr. Miller's deed of trust be made an integral part of the proposed department and the hope that provision will be made for instruction in the important subject of Forestry."

Resolved: That a Committee of the Board of Visitors appear before the Board of Supervisors of Albemarle County to discuss the proposition for the improvement of the Ivy Road.

Resolved: That Mr. J. W. Wayland, Assistant in the Library, be paid the sum of $100.00 out of current funds of the University, for extra services rendered in the Library during the present session.

Resolved: That the Law Building be located in accordance with the suggestion of Mr. Manning, the landscape architect employed by the University, on the south side of the walk leading from the post-office, and the sum of $250.00 is hereby appropriated to pay Mr. Mannings fee, upon the in-coming of his report.

In response to the request from the Beta Iota Chapter of Delta Tau Delta Fraternity,

Resolved: That the Board of Visitors does not deem it proper to grant an option on any particular lot for a fraternity building; but adheres to its resolution of December 3, 1907,

Whereas Zeta Chapter of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity has presented evidence of its pecuniary ability to erect a fraternity house subject to the terms and conditions of a resolution of this Board of December 2nd, 1907, to cost the sum of eighteen thousand (18,000.00) dollars, and

Whereas said Zeta Chapter of Kappa Sigma, before expending the money necessary to comply with certain conditions precedent of said resolution of this Board in regard to incorporation, approval of plans, etc., desires to obtain assurances that the Board approves its undertaking:

Now, therefore, be it resolved, That upon compliance by said Chapter with said resolution of this Board, in regard to incorporation, etc., and upon satisfactory evidence that said corporation is prepared to expend the sum of six thousand (6,000.00) dollars in erecting a fraternity house, this Board is now willing to loan to said corporation the sum of twelve thousand (12,000.00) dollars, and lease to it a site for said house, upon the terms and conditions of said resolution of December 2nd, 1907.

Resolved. That the proposition of Messrs. Johnston and Wise for an option on a site for a University Inn, be referred to the same Committee, having in charge the applications from the fraternities, with power to act.

Resolved That the fee-bill of Loving, Coolidge & Noble, for $100.00 for legal services in connection with the Austin Estate, is approved and ordered to be paid.

It is recommended to the President, and with his approval, to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that there be established in the University a "School of Forestry"; and that provision be made as early as practicable for instruction in such subjects essential to the work of such a school as are not, or cannot be, provided for by the present teaching force of the University.

(Memo: The above is the report of a special committee of the Faculty appointed by the President for the consideration of this subject, which report was approved by the President and passed by the General Faculty at its meeting on May 29th, 1908.)

Resolved That the Board of Visitors approves of and adopts the revised program of courses for degrees in Engineering, as recommended by the General Faculty at their meeting of May 23rd, 1908.

Resolved That Dr. John W. Mallet be, and he is hereby elected Emeritus Professor of Chemistry.

On motion, the following resolutions in reference to Fellowships and Scholarships was adopted by the Board:

(a) Resolved,- that the John Y. Mason Fellowship for the session of 1908-'9, be awarded to Mr. John J. Luck, on the nomination of the President.

(b) Resolved, that the three Vanderbilt Fellowships for the session of 1908-9 be awarded to Messrs. C. P. Olivier, Ralph E. Wilson, and W. N. Neff, upon the nomination of the Director of the McCormick Observatory.

(c) Resolved, that the Board of Visitors Fellowships, three in number, be awarded to Messrs. W. H. Faulkner, E. P. Dargan, and M. H. Arnold, for the session of 1908-'9, upon the recommendation of the Professors of the Schools of Teutonic Languages, Romance Languages, and English Literature.

(d) Resolved, that Paul Micou be awarded the William Cabell Rives Fellowship for the session of 1908-'9, upon the nomination of the President.

(e) Mr. Albert S. Brown of Frederick, Md., Executor for the founder of the Valentine Birely Scholarship, having nominated Mr. Upton Sharretts Reich of Maryland, as incumbent for the session of 1908-'9, on motion, it was resolved that the scholarship be so awarded.

(f) Resolved, that the Henry Eoalter Cabell, Scholarship for the session of 1908-'9, be awarded to Mr. Randolph F. Mason, upon the nomination of the Professor of English Literature

(g) Mr. Joseph Bryan having nominated Messrs. A. C. Randolph and L. R. Mason for the Isaac Carey Scholarship for the session of 1908-'9, it was resolved that they be awarded the scholarship.

On motion, it was resolved that the President be authorized to appoint all instructors and assistants for the session of 1908-'9, upon the recommendation of the heads of the different schools, in accordance with the Budget adopted at the last meeting of the Board.

Resolved, The Board of Visitors express their deep concern at the condition of the health of President Alderman, which necessitated his temporarily leaving his post; and wish him a complete recovery and a safe return.

Mr. John B. Moon, counsel for the University, presented, through the President, his report on the Austin Estate, which was approved and ordered spread on the record, as follows:-

Corporate Stocks and Bonds of the Estate of Arthur W. Austin, in the hands of William edict Jr. and Bentley W. Warren, Trustees.

May 8th, 1908 Net gain in Read & Co's valuation,— $1,146.73

The correspondence between President Alderman, the Rector, Rev. Mr. Browne, H. Noreck, and his attorney, was read; and on motion, it was

Resolved: That it is the sense of the Board that the matter is so manifestly without merit, that no further action is necessary.

Resolved: That, inasmuch as the Board has fixed the rental of the "Colonnade Club" at the nominal sum of $50.00 per annum, the Eursar be authorized to make the charge for steam heat and electric lights at a figure not exceeding $50.00, so that the annual charge to cover rent, heating and lights, be $100 per year

Resolved That the Superintendent of Grounds & Buildings is authorized, if proper arrangements can be made, to lease the University Coal-Yard to a coal dealer who will furnish coal to students at a cost deemed satisfactory to said superintendent. Resolved, further that, until such arrangements be made, the present law with reference to furnishing coal to resident students only be complied with.

Resolved: That the Chair of Biblical History & Literature be continued under the following agreement, to-wit:

A Trust Agreement between The Christian Woman's Board of Missions, of Indianapolis, Ind., and The Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia,

For the perpetual maintenance of a Chair of Biblical History and Literature within said University.

The Endowment

1\. The Christian Woman's Board of Missions agrees to set aside for the support of the Chair the sum of       thousand dollars ($      ), being the present endowment fund originally raised by said C. W. B. M., for the support of the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship, augmented by the gift of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.) contributed for the purpose by Mr. T. A. Cary, of Richmond.

Trustees

2\. This endowment fund shall be held by a Board of Trustees, consisting of                      (If other than the Ex. Com. of the C. W. B. M., it should be here stated how they are to be appointed and perpetuated).

Duties of Trustees

3\. The Board of Trustees shall preserve the endowment or capital fund entire, investing it in good, substantial, and safe securities. The interest upon said endowment shall be paid over quarterly to the Bursar of the University of Virginia, and by the Bursar paid out for the salary of the Professor of Biblical History and Literature, and for the legitimate and necessary incidental expenses of the chair. The Trustees shall see that the money paid over to the Bursar shall be used fully and only as herein provided. Any surplus or balance of the income from the endowment, over and above the necessary expenses of the Chair, shall be held subject to future needs, or shall be added to the endowment. The Trustees shall annually submit their account to an auditor, who shall be an expert accountant, and shall give a sworn statement of his findings.

Increase of Endowment

4\. The Trustees and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are empowered to solicit in any wise, and from any source they deem proper, additional funds for the increase of the endowment as the needs of the Chair may demand. Such needs shall be the salary of the Professor and of any assistants the growth of the work may require, the purchase of any supplies for the Chair (such as stationery and the like), the purchase of books required for the proper prosecution of the work of the Chair. Such books and other property acquired shall be under the control of the Trustees as is the endowment fund itself.

Reversion of Funds

5\. If the University of Virginia shall at any time become unable or unwilling to continue the Chair of Biblical History and Literature for three consecutive years, in accordance with the conditions hereinbefore specified and those hereinafter named, then the whole of the original endowment fund of the John B. Cary Bible Lectureship, consisting of thousand dollars ($     ) and the added gift of twenty thousand ($20,000) from Mr. T. A. Cary, shall be surrendered to the Christian Woman's Board of Missions, or their legal successors or assigns, to be disposed of or applied as they shall deem best, or as specified in the original deed of gift or conveyance of the donors. Any added funds other than those specified above shall be disposed of as their donors may have indicated at the time of making the gift, such specification of the donors wish to be in every case secured by the Trustees or the University of Virginia when accepting the gift.

A "School" of the University

1\. The Rector and Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia agree that the Chair of Biblical History and Literature shall be one of the regular Chairs or Schools of the Academic Department of the University: shall be listed in its appropriate group in the B. A. Schedule; and shall be regularly announced and advertised as such in the catalogue and elsewhere, as are the other schools of the University.

Courses and Credit:

2\. At no time shall the University fail to allow the Chair of Biblical History and Literature to offer every session at least one course that shall, when successfully completed by a student, be credited as one full ticket towards his B. A. degree; and one advanced course that shall under usual regula- tions, apply towards the M. A. degree.

3\. The University shall always provide a lecture room and needed physical equipment for the class or classes of the Chair of Biblical History and Literature without cost to the funds of the Chair.

Appointment of Professor:

1\. The Professor of Biblical History and Literature shall be appointed as are all other professors of the University, but recommendations from the Trustees of this Fund will be cordially considered.

Rank

2\. The Professor of Biblical History and Literature shall be either a full professor or an associate professor, never of lower rank.

Assistants:

3\. If the number of students electing the course or courses shall demand it, and the income of the Chair shall permit it, such tutors, instructors, or adjunct professors as may be needed shall be appointed by the University, and paid out of the income of the Chair.

Qualifications:

4\. In selecting and appointing the professor, not only his scholastic fitness must be considered, but also his Christian character. He must be not only a scholar but a distinctly religions man, interested in men as well as in books, and able by his manly life to commend to students the teaching of the Book from which he instructs them.

Duties

5\. The Professor shall do the work of the Chair as do the other professors of the University. In addition, he shall cooperate with the Y. M. C. A., and other religious agencies at the University, deliver such open-lectures on the Bible, and conduct such volunteer Bible classes as time and occasion may permit, and endeavor to make himself a positive religious factor in the religious life of the University. It is also the wish of the Founders of the Chair that the professor make his influence felt beyond the University by improving such opportunities as may offer to address churches, schools, Y. M. C. A. etc., so far as his regular duties at the University may allow.

In appointing any man to the Chair of Biblical History and Literature, his attention shall be especially called to this and the preceding article. (III., 4 & 5.)

Power of Trustees

1\. If at any time the University fails to comply with the provisions of this agreement as to the nature and extent of courses to be offered, and the qualifications and duties of the professor to be appointed, it shall become the duty of the Trustees to withhold the support of the Chair until such failure is remedied. But such withdrawal of support shall never be made during a session of the University, while a course or courses are in progress as provided above. Nor shall support ever be withdrawn from the occupant of the Chair or his assistants without three months' notice, except for such conduct as would lead to their summary dismissal from the teaching staff of the University.

Should the work of the Chair cease for three successive years under the provisions of this article, the endowment of the Chair shall revert as provided in S I, Article 5, above.

Change of Trusteeship:

2\. If at any time the Christian Woman's Board of Missions desires to discontinue acting as Trustee of the endowment of the John B. Cary Memorial Chair of Biblical History and Literature, at the University of Virginia, under the conditions hereinbefore stated, it shall then become their duty to turn over to a Board of Trustees in Virginia all the endowment and other property of the Chair, to be administered by the new Board of Trustees exactly as hereinbefore provided, Such Board of Trustees shall be made up of seven men of recognized Christian character. Four of them shall reside in the vicinity of the University of Virginia, and three in Virginia at large. Not more than three of them shall be members of one and the same Christian denomination. A majority of them shall constitute a quorum. They shall meet at the University at least once a year for the transaction of the business of their office. One of their number shall be Secretary and Treasurer. He must reside in Charlottesville, and he must give suitable bond for the faithful discharge of his duties. No Trustee can be under 35, or over 65 years of age.

This Board shall be originally appointed by the Executive Committee of the Christian Woman's Board of Missions when giving up the trust. After that the Board of Trustees shall be self-perpetuating, filling vacancies at the meeting next succeeding the occurrence of such either by death, resignation, or reaching of age limit.

Copies of Agreement:

A copy of this Agreement shall be placed and kept with therecords of the Board of Visitors; a copy shall be kept by the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, and acopy furnished every incumbent of the Chair when he accepts the appointment.

On motion, the Board adjouned.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at 10 00 A. M. on above date, in the President's Office,

Present The Rector, and Visitors White, Craddock, Drewry, Shackelford, Harmon, Irvine, and Norton,

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and the following adopted,-

Resolved: That the Report on the James Fund, presented by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, be recorded and filed together with exhibits.

The Report follows:-

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia -

Your Finance Committee beg leave to report that, in pursuance of your Resolution of April 10, 1908, it has arranged with "The Virginia Trust Company" of Richmond, Virginia, for the safe keeping of the securities, and the collection of interest and dividends thereon, of the estate of the late E. W. James, and presents herewith the following exhibits covering the details of the arrangement, including the transfer of securities from the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts to the Virginia Trust Company

Exhibit A, which is a copy of Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, giving the list of securities turned over to the Virginia Trust Company; par value of which is $160,578.64, appraised value $200,338.64, less 28 shares of Marine Bank Stock, appraised at $7,560.00, which was delivered, February 5, 1908, to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys, Norfolk, Virginia, for the University, and including Certificate No. 26, for one (1) share Richmond Club stock, par value $100.00, appraised at $40.00, and showing a credit of $33.00 paid on account of distribution of assets. This certificate not being listed.

The 28 shares of Marine Bank stock above referred to, was taken by Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, as a part of their fee. All of which, together with settlement with the legatees and claimants against the estate of Mr. James, will appear from the letter of Mr. W. H. White to the Rector, dated February 6th, 1908, and herewith filed, marked Exhibit "X".

Exhibit B. Personal effects listed in Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, consisting principally of books, papers, watches, forks, spoons, &c.

Exhibit C. Letter from Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President of the Virginia Trust Company, date June 1, 1908, to Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, Norfolk, Virginia.

Exhibit D. Reply of W. W. Vicar, Cashier, to Virginia Trust Company. Date, June 4, 1908.

Exhibit E. Copy of resolution of Board of Visitors of the University, authorizing Finance Committee to arrange with the Virginia Trust Company for the safe-keeping and other necessary duties pertaining to the securities of the estate of the late E. W. James.

Exhibit F. Collections reported by the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, proceeds of which were paid over to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys for the University of Virginia.

Exhibit G. Letters, May 29, 1908, from Finance Committee U. of V., signed John W. Craddock and W. H. White, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts and the Virginia Trust Company, with instructions as to the delivery of securities in the James estate.

Exhibit H Letter of Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President, June 6, 1908, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, acknowledging receipt of securities as shown in Exhibit A, with the exceptions noted in this report.

Please accept my resignation as Adjunct Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Virginia, effective Sept. 15th, 1908.

I am directed by the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia to transmit to you to be laid before your Board, the following resolutions of the Miller Board of Trustees of the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia, adopted at their meeting held on Saturday, June 13th, 1908:-

"The Trustees of the Miller Fund earnestly desiring the widest efficiency of the instruction provided for the University under the terms of the deed of trust have carefully considered the proposal to change the name of the Department of Agriculture to that of the Department of Science and to enlarge its scope. They cordially approve the proposed change of name, with the express understanding that the School of Agriculture called for by the terms of Mr. Miller's deed of trust be made an integral part of the proposed department and the hope that provision will be made for instruction in the important subject of Forestry."

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, at 10 00 A. M. on above date, in the President's Office,

Present The Rector, and Visitors White, Craddock, Drewry, Shackelford, Harmon, Irvine, and Norton,

The Board was called to order by the Rector, and the following adopted,-

Resolved: That the Report on the James Fund, presented by the Chairman of the Finance Committee, be recorded and filed together with exhibits.

The Report follows:-

The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia -

Your Finance Committee beg leave to report that, in pursuance of your Resolution of April 10, 1908, it has arranged with "The Virginia Trust Company" of Richmond, Virginia, for the safe keeping of the securities, and the collection of interest and dividends thereon, of the estate of the late E. W. James, and presents herewith the following exhibits covering the details of the arrangement, including the transfer of securities from the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts to the Virginia Trust Company

Exhibit A, which is a copy of Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, giving the list of securities turned over to the Virginia Trust Company; par value of which is $160,578.64, appraised value $200,338.64, less 28 shares of Marine Bank Stock, appraised at $7,560.00, which was delivered, February 5, 1908, to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys, Norfolk, Virginia, for the University, and including Certificate No. 26, for one (1) share Richmond Club stock, par value $100.00, appraised at $40.00, and showing a credit of $33.00 paid on account of distribution of assets. This certificate not being listed.

The 28 shares of Marine Bank stock above referred to, was taken by Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, as a part of their fee. All of which, together with settlement with the legatees and claimants against the estate of Mr. James, will appear from the letter of Mr. W. H. White to the Rector, dated February 6th, 1908, and herewith filed, marked Exhibit "X".

Exhibit B. Personal effects listed in Appendix D, Commissioner Ruffin's report, consisting principally of books, papers, watches, forks, spoons, &c.

Exhibit C. Letter from Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President of the Virginia Trust Company, date June 1, 1908, to Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, Norfolk, Virginia.

Exhibit D. Reply of W. W. Vicar, Cashier, to Virginia Trust Company. Date, June 4, 1908.

Exhibit E. Copy of resolution of Board of Visitors of the University, authorizing Finance Committee to arrange with the Virginia Trust Company for the safe-keeping and other necessary duties pertaining to the securities of the estate of the late E. W. James.

Exhibit F. Collections reported by the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, proceeds of which were paid over to Messrs. Loyall, Taylor & White, Attorneys for the University of Virginia.

Exhibit G. Letters, May 29, 1908, from Finance Committee U. of V., signed John W. Craddock and W. H. White, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts and the Virginia Trust Company, with instructions as to the delivery of securities in the James estate.

Exhibit H Letter of Mann S. Quarles, Vice-President, June 6, 1908, to the Norfolk Bank for Savings & Trusts, acknowledging receipt of securities as shown in Exhibit A, with the exceptions noted in this report.

Please accept my resignation as Adjunct Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Virginia, effective Sept. 15th, 1908.

I am directed by the Miller Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia to transmit to you to be laid before your Board, the following resolutions of the Miller Board of Trustees of the Agricultural School of the University of Virginia, adopted at their meeting held on Saturday, June 13th, 1908:-

"The Trustees of the Miller Fund earnestly desiring the widest efficiency of the instruction provided for the University under the terms of the deed of trust have carefully considered the proposal to change the name of the Department of Agriculture to that of the Department of Science and to enlarge its scope. They cordially approve the proposed change of name, with the express understanding that the School of Agriculture called for by the terms of Mr. Miller's deed of trust be made an integral part of the proposed department and the hope that provision will be made for instruction in the important subject of Forestry."
