---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1911'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1911) May 9, 1911
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 9, 1911

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors, called for the consideration of the "Financial Budget" for 1911-1912,

Present: The Rector, and Visitors Irvine, Drewry, White, Harmon, and Norton, and President Alderman,

The Rector having called the Board to order at 2:30 P. M., the President proposed promotions and appointments which were unanimously agreed to by resolution, as follows:

Resolved: That Associate Professor H. E. Jordan, in the School of Anatomy, be made Professor of Histology and Embryology, at a salary of $2,500.

Resolved: That Adjunct Professor, Charles Hancock, in the Department of Enginnering, be made Associate Professor of Engineering and Mechanical Drawing.

Resolved: That Associate Professor J. C. Flippin, in the Department of Medicine, be made Professor of Clinical Medicine.

Resolved: That Instructor W. T. Myers in the College Department, be made Adjunct Professor in the "Linden Kent Memorial School of English Literature.

Resolved: That Lee Bidgood be made Adjunct Professor of Political Economy, at a salary of $1,500 for the year 1911'12.

Resolved: That W. M. Hunley be made Instructor in Political Science in the School of Political Economy at a salary of $1,000. for the year 1911-'12.

Resolved: That a leave of absence of two years, without salary, be extended to Dr. Thomas Walker Page, Professor of Political Economy, now in service upon the United States Tariff Commission.

Resolved: That C. M. Sparrow be made Adjunct Professor of Physics, at a salary of $1,250., for the year 1911-1912.

Resolved: That J. A. Waddell be made Adjunct Professor of Pharmacology and Materia Medica at a salary of $1,500. a year.

Resolved: That a leave of absence for one year, at half salary, be granted to Professor William H. Heck, in consideration of his purpose to more completely prepare himself for service in the promotion of public health and educational hygiene in the State of Virginia.

Owing to advanced age and increasing infirmities, the resignation of William Morris Fontaine, for many years Professor of Natural History and Geology in the University, was received; and it was resolved by the Rector and Visitors that the resignation be accepted with a hearty expression by the Rector and Visitors, of their appreciation of the service of Professor Fontaine as a scholar of international distinction and a teacher of untiring devotion to his work.

The President then presented the resignation of Dr. Bruce R. Payne, as follows,-

I hereby tender to you and through you to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, my resignation as Professor of Secondary Education, and as Professor of Psychology, and as Director of the Summer School at the University of Virginia. I should like for this resignation to take effect at the end of the scholastic year, June 14, 1911. I think it advisable to continue my connection with the Summer School until its close, July 29th, and with respect to that phase of my work this resignation should not become operative until July 29th. It may be that I cannot be present every day during the Summer School, but if agreeable I shall be present as often as possible.

In taking this action it is needless for me to say to you and to your honorable Board that it gives me the greatest imaginable sorrow to sever my connection with this University. For six years I have endeavored in so far as God has given me strength and wisdom to serve through the University the youth and the schools of this commonwealth. No man has ever struggled to do his work, who has been buoyed up with the feeling that he had the earnest and heary cooperation of all the adminstrative and executive authorities more than I have in these six years. There has not been one minute in that period when I have not felt that I had the hearty sympathy and support of yourself, the faculty and the Board of Visitors. Without them I should have lost courage and have failed. Will you then let me thank you for this and all kindnesses, and will you be so kind as to express this appreciation to the faculty, and to the Board of Visitors?

With sincere esteem and good will, I beg to remain most

The Board then adopted the following:

Resolved: That the Rector and Visitors accept, with sincere regret, the resignation of Professor Bruce Ryburn Payne. It is their desire to record their sincere appreciation of his value as a teacher and as a constructive force in educational work within and without the University. They wish for him the largest measure of success in the great new field to which he has been called.

Resolved: That the President be authorized to transmit to Sir Moses Ezekiel, the sum of $1,000.00 from the donation of Mr. Thomas, toward the expense of the "Jefferson Statue."

Resolved: That Mr. W. M. Storm of Frederick, Maryland, be awarded the "Valentine Birely Scholarship" for session 1911-1912.

Whereas Dr. R. H. Whitehead has requested that he be allowed to lease certain additional ground from the University for the purpose of a road or driveway connecting his stable with the main road in front of his house, therefore, be it

Resolved: That in compliance with this request of Dr. Whitehead, he be, and he is hereby granted the free and unrestricted use of such lot or parcel of ground as will give him a driveway 16 feet wide, beginning at the main Observatory Road, and lying parallel and adjoining Dr. Hough's lot on the western boundary, and Dr. Whitehead's lot on the eastern boundary, and running back 400 feet to the rear boundary of Dr. Whitehead's said lot. The privileges hereby granted are to remain in force during the present lease of Dr. Whitehead.

Resolved: That this Board approve and confirm the action of the Finance Committee in authorizing the payment of the additional sum of $3,000.00 as a temporary loan from the proceeds of sale of the Norfolk Bank Stocks, belonging to the "James Estate," and necessary to complete the Law Building and equipment, and essential repairs and heating Dawson's Row buildings.

The President having brought to the attention of the Rector and Visitors, the will of the late Judge Lambert Tree of the city of Chicago, wherein by the Eleventh Clause thereof he provides as follows: viz—

Copy of Article XI Will of Lambert Tree, Deceased

"I give and bequeath to the University of Virginia, situated at or near Charlottesville, Virginia, the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), to be permanently invested, and the interest or income therefrom to be used in perpetuity for the use and benefit of the library of the University, in the purchase of books or in such other way as may be deemed best for the interests of the library. The condition of this bequest is, that the authorities in charge of the fund shall make and publish an annual report thereof to the proper official of the University, showing what is being done therewith."

—the said Rector and Visitors hereby express and record their sincere appreciation of the gift of Judge Tree, and accept the same with direction that the said legacy be invested by the Finance Committee, and the income arising therefrom be devoted to the purpose expressed in the said Eleventh Clause of Judge Tree's will.

Resolved, further: That the President transmit copy of this resolution to the family and the Executor of Judge Tree, accompanied with the assurance that this kindness will be borne in considerate memory by the authorities of the University.

Correspondence relative to the above, here follows:-

By the Eleventh Article of his last will and Testament the Hon. Lambert Tree, Deceased, of this city, bequeathed to your institution the sum of $5,000.00 to be invested in perpetuity for the benefit of your library. To be used in the purchase of books, or such other ways as may be deemed best for said library.

He also bequeathed to you certain law books, which have already been delivered.

On these bequeasts the State of Illinois has imposed an Inheritance Tax of 3 percent amounting to $153.04, on which we will receive a discount for prompt payment, leaving the net amount of the tax $145.39.

We accordingly enclose for your information a copy of the Article in question together with our check for $4,854.61 in full settlement of the legacy after deducting the Inheritance Tax.

Will you kindly acknowledge receipt at your convenience on the vouchers enclosed in duplicate for that purpose, and oblige.

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 29th, inst., containing a check for $4,854.61, being the bequest of the Hon. Lambert Tree, deceased, to the University of Virginia, less the inheritance tax of the State of Illinois of $145.39. I also acknowledge receipt of the copy of article XI of the will of Lambert Tree, deceased, setting forth the purpose for which this bequest shall be used. The University of Virginia will in due time express proper gratitude through its Rector and Visitors for this bequest.

Resolved: That the Bursar, under direction of the President, is hereby authorized to cause a completion of the system of Accounting undertaken by Messrs. Harvey S. Chase & Co.: and also to have said parties to audit the account of the Bursar to July 1, 1911, and certify the same to the Rector and Visitors.

The President presented the following resolution of the Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund,—

"Resolved, that the statement entitled: \`University of Virginia Endowment Fund Financial Budget' be adopted, recommended to the Board of Visitors, and recorded as a part of the minutes of this meeting. And if agreed to by the President, Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the Treasurer do pay the Bursar of the University of Virginia, as from time to time he shall receive the same, all of the income from the endowment fund as shall accrue from July 1st, 1911, to July 1, 1912, to be applied as herebefore set out."

Whereupon it was-

Resolved: That the statement entitled "University of Virginia Endowment Fund Financial Budget" be adopted as agreed to by the President and recommended to this Board, and that the same be placed on record as a part of the proceedings of this meeting.

\[see page 121 for "University of Virginia Endowment Fund Financial Budget"\]

I hereby tender to you and through you to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, my resignation as Professor of Secondary Education, and as Professor of Psychology, and as Director of the Summer School at the University of Virginia. I should like for this resignation to take effect at the end of the scholastic year, June 14, 1911. I think it advisable to continue my connection with the Summer School until its close, July 29th, and with respect to that phase of my work this resignation should not become operative until July 29th. It may be that I cannot be present every day during the Summer School, but if agreeable I shall be present as often as possible.

In taking this action it is needless for me to say to you and to your honorable Board that it gives me the greatest imaginable sorrow to sever my connection with this University. For six years I have endeavored in so far as God has given me strength and wisdom to serve through the University the youth and the schools of this commonwealth. No man has ever struggled to do his work, who has been buoyed up with the feeling that he had the earnest and heary cooperation of all the adminstrative and executive authorities more than I have in these six years. There has not been one minute in that period when I have not felt that I had the hearty sympathy and support of yourself, the faculty and the Board of Visitors. Without them I should have lost courage and have failed. Will you then let me thank you for this and all kindnesses, and will you be so kind as to express this appreciation to the faculty, and to the Board of Visitors?

With sincere esteem and good will, I beg to remain most

By the Eleventh Article of his last will and Testament the Hon. Lambert Tree, Deceased, of this city, bequeathed to your institution the sum of $5,000.00 to be invested in perpetuity for the benefit of your library. To be used in the purchase of books, or such other ways as may be deemed best for said library.

He also bequeathed to you certain law books, which have already been delivered.

On these bequeasts the State of Illinois has imposed an Inheritance Tax of 3 percent amounting to $153.04, on which we will receive a discount for prompt payment, leaving the net amount of the tax $145.39.

We accordingly enclose for your information a copy of the Article in question together with our check for $4,854.61 in full settlement of the legacy after deducting the Inheritance Tax.

Will you kindly acknowledge receipt at your convenience on the vouchers enclosed in duplicate for that purpose, and oblige.

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 29th, inst., containing a check for $4,854.61, being the bequest of the Hon. Lambert Tree, deceased, to the University of Virginia, less the inheritance tax of the State of Illinois of $145.39. I also acknowledge receipt of the copy of article XI of the will of Lambert Tree, deceased, setting forth the purpose for which this bequest shall be used. The University of Virginia will in due time express proper gratitude through its Rector and Visitors for this bequest.

Alumni Board of Trustees University of Virginia Endowment Fund Financial Budget for session 1911-12Financial Budget—University of Virginia—1911-12 Estimated Resources Available for Current Expenses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. Resources:

Estimated Income from Funds in hands of Eppa Hunton, Jr. Treasurer, from July 1, 1911 to July 1, 1912,

$47,000 .00

II. Expenditures:

Edgar Allan Poe School of English

3,300 00

James Wilson Sch. of Polit. Sc. & Econ.

3,300 00

James Madison School of Law,

3,300 00

James Monroe School of International Law,

3,300 00

Walter Reed School of Pathology,

3,000 00

School of Chemistry,

10,000 00

Andrew Carnegie School of Engineering,

8,550 00

Presidents' Salary

3,000 00

General Library,

2,000 00

Law Library, (Fuller Fund)

500 00

Wm. C. Rives, (Fellowships Fund)

250 00

40,500 00

Curry Memorial School,

4,850 00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

1,150 00

Contingent Fund, clerical services, etc.,

500 00

6,500 00

47,000

From Grants by State:

Annual Appropriation for Current Expenses,

80,000 00

Special Appropriation, for Hospital, (bal. 8 mos.)

6,666 67

Annual Appropriation for Students' Loan Fund,

800 00

87,466 67

From Income from Endowments:

Funds for General Purposes, (Endowment Board)

40,150 00

Curry Memorial Endowments, (Endowment Board)

4,960 64

Corcoran Endowment,

6,000 00

Miller Endowment,

6,000 00

Linden Kent Endowment,

3,048 00

Vanderbilt Endowment,

4,100 00

Library Endowment,

948 00

Fellowship Endowment,

460 00

Scholarship Endowment,

453 00

Engineering Department, (John W. Scott)

200 00

John B. Cary Endowment,

2,400 00

Barbour-Page Endowment (Endowment Board)

1,150 00

Law Library Endowment, (Fuller)

500 00

Lambert Tree Endowment, (General Library)

300 00

70,659 64

From Bequests and Donations:

Austin Estate,

9,000 00

Edward W. James Estate,

4,765 00

General Education Board,

3,000 00

16,765 00

From Students:

For Fees, Tuitions, Rents, etc., (est. 750 at $88.66)

66,500 00

On Deferred Payments, Time Notes & Accounts,

1,500 00

68,000 00

From all Other Sources:

Interest on Bank Balances,

350 00

Rents from Residents on Grounds, (incl. Prof. & Officers.)

4,991 00

Electric Lights, Residents on Grounds,

845 00

Steam Heat, Residents on Grounds,

660 00

6,846 00

Total Resources,

249, 737 31

Detailed Expenditures;

I. General Administration.

(a) Salaries:

Edwin A. Alderman, President,

8,000 00

Howard Winston, Registrar,

1,000 00

Stenographer & Sec'y., Executive Offices,

900 00

Clerk and Messenger, Executive Offices,

540 00

Janitor, Administration Building,

96 00

10,536 00

(b) Advertsing & C.:

Advertising,

2,500 00

Alumni Bulletin,

1,000 00

Annual Catalogue,

1,500 00

Contingent Fund,

3,500 00

Commencement Fund,

300 00

Entertainment Fund,

750 00

Diplomas,

200 00

Printing and Publication,

1,000 00

10,750 00

II. College and Graduate Departments:

1\. Latin:

Professor, Thomas Fitz-Hugh, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Instructor, James S. McLemore,

600 00

Instructor,

400 00

Instructor,

300 00

4,600 00

2\. Greek:

Professor, M. W. Humphreys,

3,300 00

Instructor, J. S. McLemore,

400 00

3,700 00

3\. Edgar Allan Poe School of English:

Professor, C. Alphonso Smith, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor,

x x x

Assistant,

50 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,

200 00

3,550 00

4\. English Literature:

Professor, Charles W. Kent, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, Charles W. Paul,

1,200 00

Adjunct Professor, Weldon Myers,

1,000 00

Instructor,

x x x x

Reader, W. C. Scott,

150 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship, Marion Rushton,

200 00

Special for Books, &c.,

48 00

5,898 00

Forward

39,034 00

5\. Romance Languages:

Professor, Richard H. Wilson,

3,300 00

Instructor, H. P. Taylor, (French)

700 00

Instructor, J. C. Bardin,

500 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship, J. C. Bardin,

200 00

4,700 00

6\. Mathematics:

Professor, James Morris Page,

3,300 00

Professor, W. H. Echols, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Instructor, E. S. Smith,

300 00

Instructor, Angus Echols

300 00

Instructor, R. E. Beard

300 00

Instructor, H. H. Gaver

90 00

J. Y. Mason, Fellowship

210 00

7,800 00

7\. Astronomy:

Professor, Ormond Stone, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Vanderbilt Fellowships:

(a)

350 00

(b)

350 00

(c)

350 00

Observatory Appropriation,

405 00

4,755 00

8\. Physics:

Associate Professor, L. G. Hoxton,

2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, C. M. Sparrow,

1,250 00

Instructor, S. H. Diggs,

300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

750 00

Janitor Service,

200 00

4,800 00

9\. Chemistry:

Professor, J. H. Kastle,

3,300 00

Professor, F. P. Dunnington,

3,300 00

Professor, R. M. Bird,

2,500 00

Adjunct Professor, Graham Edgar,

1,200 00

Instructor,

500 00

Instructor,

500 00

Instructor,

300 00

Instructor,

250 00

Laboratory Appropriation, (All Dept's)

850 00

Janitor Service, (3 Laboratories)

630 00

13,330 00

Forward

74,419 00

10\. Biology:

Professor, A. H. Tuttle (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, W. A. Kepner,

1,500 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

400 00

5,200 00

11\. Geology:

Professor, Thos. L. Watson,

2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, J. S. Grasty,

1,500 00

Instructor,

450 00

Laboratory Appropriation (special)

350 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

4,525 00

12\. History:

Professor, R. H. Dabney, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Rives Fellowship,

200 00

3,800 00

13\. Economics:

Professor, (Thomas W. Page)

x x x x x

Adjunct Professor, Lee Bidgood,

1,500 00

Instructor, Henley,

1,000 00

Assistant,

300 00

2,800 00

14\. Philosophy:

Professor, Albert Lefevre,

3,300 00

Professor, (B. R. Payne)

x x x x

Adjunct Professor, (Psychology)

1,500 00

Instructor,

450 00

Assistant,

300 00

5,550 00

15\. Education:

Professor, W. H. Heck,

1,250 00

Professor

2,500 00

Travelling Expenses—Secondary Education,

500 00

4,250 00

16\. Biblical History & Literature:

Professor, W. M. Forrest,

2,400 00

2,400 00

17\. Germanic Languages:

Associate Professor, W. H. Faulkner,

2,500 00

Forward

105,444 00

Brought Forward

105,444 00

18\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, James M. Page,

350 00

Scholarships:

(a) Miller,

250 00

(b) Miller,

250 00

(c) Miller,

250 00

(d) Thompson Brown,

90 00

(e) Valentine Birely,

210 00

(f) H. C. Cabell, S. A. Steger,

36 00

(g) State High Schools,

100 00

Janitor Service, Cabell Hall,

180 00

1,716 00

107,160 00

III. Law Department:

Salaries:

Professor, W. M. Lile, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, C. A. Graves, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, R. C. Minor, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, A. M. Dobie,

2,500 00

Adj. Professor,

2,000 00

Instructor,

750 00

Instructor,

750 00

Law Librarian,

600 00

Assistant Law Librarian,

200 00

Instructor in Pub. Speaking & Parl. Law,

200 00

Library Appropriation,

1,500 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

18,650 00

IV. Medical Department:

1\. Anatomy:

Professor, R. H. Whitehead,

3,300 00

Instructor, F. P. Smart,

800 00

Anatomical Laboratory Appropriation,

750 00

Janitor Service, (Dissecting Hall)

300 00

5,150 00

2\. Histology & Embryology:

Professor, H. E. Jordan,

2,500 00

Assistant,

40 00

Assistant,

40 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

350 00

2,930 00

Forward

8,080 00

Brought Forward

8,080 00

3\. Physiology:

Professor, Theodore Hough,

3,000 00

Assistants,

200 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

400 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

3,850 00

4\. Bacteriology & Pathology:

Professor, H. T. Marshall,

3,000 00

Instructor, E. A. Purdum,

800 00

Assistant, W. E. Bray,

120 00

Assistant, R. R. Dale,

100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

575 00

Janitor Service, Medical Hall,

250 00

4,845 00

5\. Pharmacology, Materia Medica & Toxicology:

Adjunct Professor, J. A. Waddell,

1,500 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

500 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

2,250 00

6\. Clinical Diagnosis:

Professor, J. C. Flippin,

2,500 00

Assistant, H. A. Latané,

100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

150 00

2,750 00

7\. Practice of Medicine:

Professor, J. S. Davis,

3,300 00

8\. Surgery & Gynecology:

Professor, S. H. Watts,

3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, W. H. Goodwin,

1,350 00

Assistant, (in Surgery) John Neff,

200 00

4,550 00

9\. Obstetrics:

Professor, W. D. Macon,

1,000 00

10\. Diseases of Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat:

Professor, H. S. Hedges,

250 00

Professor, R. F. Compton,

250 00

500 00

11\. Hygiene:

Professor, W. A. Lambeth, (incl. rent)

2,750 00

Forward

33,875 00

Brought Forward

33,875 00

12\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, R. H. Whitehead,

250 00

Hospital,

9,000 00

Dispensary,

300 00

Dispensary Pharmacist, R. W. Garnett,

100 00

Janitor Service, Dispensary,

150 00

McCormick Scholarship,

140 00

Maintenance, Animal House,

75 00

10,015 00

Total Medical Department,

43,890 00

V. Engineering Department:

Professor, W. M. Thornton, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Associate Professor J. L. Newcomb,

2,250 00

Associate Professor, Charles Hancock,

2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, W. S. Rodman,

1,500 00

Instructor, J. M. Gallales,

900 00

Instructor, L. F. Tucker, C.E.,

400 00

Instructor in Drawing, (Chas. Hancock)

x x x x x

Assistant, R. H. Houston, C. E.

200 00

Assistant, W. T. Tabb, E. E.

200 00

Assistant, F. N. Lewis,

200 00

Assistant, Z. R. Lewis,

200 00

Appropriation, Mechanical Laboratory,

500 00

Merrick Scholarship,

100 00

Janitor, Mechanical Laboratory,

275 00

12,025 00

VI. Summer School:

General Appropriation,

500 00

500 00

VII. General Library:

Salaries:

Librarian, John S. Patton

1,500 00

Assistant Librarian, Anna S. Tuttle,

800 00

Assistant, Mrs. Johnson,

300 00

Assistant, Mr. Washburn,

100 00

Assistant,

125 00

General Appropriation,

2,000 00

Income, from Endowment Funds,

948 00

Janitor Service,

300 00

6,073 00

VIII. Buildings and Grounds:

Superintendent, W. A. Lambeth

750 00

Landscape Designer, W. H. Manning,

250 00

Foreman & Chief Mechanic,

1,000 00

Electrician, B. F. Kirby,

700 00

Plumber, Hugh Ford,

600 00

Engineer, (lighting plant) John Golding,

660 00

Engineer, (heating plant) H. M. Lee,

280 00

Fireman, (heating plant)

210 00

Fireman, (lighting plant)

300 00

Fireman, (special heating stations)

315 00

Night Police & Watchman,

420 00

Foreman on Grounds, L. W. Dudley,

540 00

8 Laborers on Grounds,

2,496 00

Janitor, Randall Building,

135 00

Janitor, Alumni Hall,

33 00

10 Janitors, Student Dormitories,

1,370 00

Repairs,

5,000 00

Improvements,

2,000 00

Reservoir & Water Line,

230 00

Insurance & Renewals,

1,200 00

Fuel—Heat and Light,

6,000 00

Supplies—Electrical,

500 00

Charlottesville Fire Department,

200 00

Gas,

400 00

25,589 00

IX. Gymnasium:

Associate Director, H. H. Lannigan,

300 00

Instructor, Phys. Culture,

200 00

Assistant, Phys. Culture,

130 00

Equipment, heat and light,

450 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

1,305 00

X. Miscellaneous:

President's House, (maintenance)

500 00

Dining Hall, (maintenance)

xxxxxx

Dining Hall, Salary Chariman of Committee

250 00

Madison Hall, (maintenance)

200 00

Debating & Oratorical Union,

50 00

Debater's Medal,

50 00

Stenographer to Deans and Superintendent,

550 00

Organist and Organ Repairs,

300 00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

1,150 00

Retiring Allowance, Henry Martin,

300 00

Retiring Allowance, Humphrey Shelton,

216 00

3,566 00

Brought Forward

XI. Business Administration:

Bursar, I. K. Moran, (incl. rent)

1,950 00

Assistant, C. H. H. Thomas,

750 00

Assistant,

150 00

Legal Counsel, John B. Moon,

1,000 00

Secretary, Board of Visitors,

100 00

Secretary, Alumni Board,

100 00

Interest on Debt,

8,000 00

Sinking Fund,

2,000 00

State Students' Loan Fund,

800 00

14,850 00

XII. Temporary General Appropriations:

1\. Estimated Deficit,

3,000 00

2\. Hospital, balance special appropriation,

6,666 67

3\. Department of Latin, (plaster casts)

250 00

4\. Old Law Lecture Rooms, (modification)

200 00

5\. Engineering Department, (special)

300 00

6\. Pathology, (for projectoscope)

150 00

7\. Philosophical Society,

750 00

8\. Lambert Tree Bequest, to restore Fund to $5,000.

344 56

11,661 00

Total Expenditures.

245,269 23

Summary of Financial Budget—1911-1912

Total Resources, as per statement,

$249,737 31

Expenditures.

I. General Administration: (a) Salaries,

10,536 00

(b) Advertising,

10,750 00

21,286 00

II. College and Graduate Departments:

1\. Latin,

4,600 00

2\. Greek,

3,700 00

3\. Edgar Allan Poe School of English,

3,550 00

4\. English Literature,

5,898 00

5\. Romance Languages,

4,700 00

6\. Mathematics,

7,800 00

7\. Astronomy,

4,755 00

8\. Physics,

4,800 00

9\. Chemistry,

13,330 00

10\. Biology,

5,200 00

11\. Geology,

4,525 00

12\. History,

3,800 00

13\. Economics,

2,800 00

14\. Philosophy,

5,550 00

15\. Education,

4,250 00

16\. Biblical History & Literature,

2,400 00

17\. Germanic Languages,

2,500 00

18\. Miscellaneous,

1,716 00

85,874 00

Forward

107,160 00

249,737 31

Brought Forward

107,160 00

249,737 31

III. Law Department:

18,650 00

IV. Medical Department:

1\. Anatomy,

5,150 00

2\. Histology and Embryology,

2,930 00

3\. Physiology,

3,850 00

4\. Bacteriology and Pathology,

4,845 00

5\. Pharmcology, Materia Medica & Toxocolgy,

2,250 00

6\. Clinical Diagnosis,

2,750 00

7\. Practice of Medicine,

3,300 00

8\. Surgery and Gynecology,

4,550 00

9\. Obstetrics,

1,000 00

10\. Diseases of Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat,

500 00

11\. Hygiene,

2,750 00

12\. Miscellaneous,

10,015 00

43,890 00

V. Engineering Department:

12,025 00

VI. Summer School,

500 00

VII. General Library,

6,073 00

VIII. Buildings & Grounds,

25,589 00

IX. Gymnasium,

1,305 00

X. Miscellaneous,

3,566 00

XI. Business Administration,

14,850 00

XII. Temporary General Appropriations,

11,661 23

245,269 23

Balance Estimated Surplus,

4,468 08

Resolved:- that the estimates of the Income and the appropriation of the same as recommended in the report of the President, be approved as follows:

On motion, the Board adjourned, subject to the call of the Rector.

I hereby tender to you and through you to the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, my resignation as Professor of Secondary Education, and as Professor of Psychology, and as Director of the Summer School at the University of Virginia. I should like for this resignation to take effect at the end of the scholastic year, June 14, 1911. I think it advisable to continue my connection with the Summer School until its close, July 29th, and with respect to that phase of my work this resignation should not become operative until July 29th. It may be that I cannot be present every day during the Summer School, but if agreeable I shall be present as often as possible.

In taking this action it is needless for me to say to you and to your honorable Board that it gives me the greatest imaginable sorrow to sever my connection with this University. For six years I have endeavored in so far as God has given me strength and wisdom to serve through the University the youth and the schools of this commonwealth. No man has ever struggled to do his work, who has been buoyed up with the feeling that he had the earnest and heary cooperation of all the adminstrative and executive authorities more than I have in these six years. There has not been one minute in that period when I have not felt that I had the hearty sympathy and support of yourself, the faculty and the Board of Visitors. Without them I should have lost courage and have failed. Will you then let me thank you for this and all kindnesses, and will you be so kind as to express this appreciation to the faculty, and to the Board of Visitors?

With sincere esteem and good will, I beg to remain most

By the Eleventh Article of his last will and Testament the Hon. Lambert Tree, Deceased, of this city, bequeathed to your institution the sum of $5,000.00 to be invested in perpetuity for the benefit of your library. To be used in the purchase of books, or such other ways as may be deemed best for said library.

He also bequeathed to you certain law books, which have already been delivered.

On these bequeasts the State of Illinois has imposed an Inheritance Tax of 3 percent amounting to $153.04, on which we will receive a discount for prompt payment, leaving the net amount of the tax $145.39.

We accordingly enclose for your information a copy of the Article in question together with our check for $4,854.61 in full settlement of the legacy after deducting the Inheritance Tax.

Will you kindly acknowledge receipt at your convenience on the vouchers enclosed in duplicate for that purpose, and oblige.

I beg to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 29th, inst., containing a check for $4,854.61, being the bequest of the Hon. Lambert Tree, deceased, to the University of Virginia, less the inheritance tax of the State of Illinois of $145.39. I also acknowledge receipt of the copy of article XI of the will of Lambert Tree, deceased, setting forth the purpose for which this bequest shall be used. The University of Virginia will in due time express proper gratitude through its Rector and Visitors for this bequest.
