---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1912'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1912) May 9, 1912
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 9, 1912

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

General Fund,

$42,150 00

Curry Memorial,

4,950 64

Page-Barbour,

1,100 00

Cary Scholarship,

550 00

48,750 64

E. A. School of English,—

$3,300 00

Jas. Wilson School of P. S. & Econ.

3,300 00

Jas. Madison School of Law

3,300 00

Jas. Monroe School of Inter. Law.

3,300 00

Walter Reed School of Pathology

3,000 00

School of Chemistry

10,500 00

Andrew Carnegie Sch. of Eng'r.

9,200 00

President's Salary

3,000 00

General Library

2,000 00

Curry Memorial Fund

4,950 64

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund

1,100 00

Isaac Cary Scholarship Fund

550 00

Rives Fellowship Fund

250 00

Law Library (Fuller)

500 00

Contingent Fund, clerks, etc.

500 00

In response to the call of the 2nd instant, for a meeting of the Board of Visitors for this date, the following members appeared, the Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Craddock, and Norton.

The Rector appointed Judge J. K. M. Norton a member of the executive committee, vice Judge Shackelford, resigned.

On account of absence of a quorum, no official business was transacted.

University of Virginia, May 9th, 1912.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors, called for the consideration of the "Financial Budget" for 1912-1913,

Present: The Rector, Visitors White, Craddock, Norton, Irvine, Flood, Oliver, and President Alderman,

The Rector having called the Board to order, Mr. Oliver presented his certificate of qualification under date of February 17th, 1912, as appointee, vice Judge Shackelford, resigned. It being understood that Mr. Oliver succeeded himself at the expiration of Judge Shackelford's term, February 28th, 1912, he was accordingly recognized as a duly qualified member of this Board.

Mr. Irvine having been re-appointed to succeed himself, appeared and took his seat as member of this Board.

The President then informed the Board that it became his sad duty to convey to them, official intelligence of the recent death of one of their most valued and highly esteemed associates, Hon. Daniel Harmon, for sixteen years resident member of this body, whereupon, it was

Resolved: That a Committee of three, including the Rector and President, be appointed to draft suitable resolutions of respect on account of the death of our fellow member Daniel Harmon.

In pursuance to the above, the following committee was appointed, the Rector, the President, and Mr. Oliver.

Resolved: That a committee of three be appointed to confer with a committee of the Faculty of the University of Virginia to consider the character of a memorial in honor of the late Daniel Harmon.

In pursuance to the above, the following committee was appointed, President Alderman, Mr. Irvine, and Judge Norton.

Resolved: That the "Building Committee" be requested to recommend to the Board, a suitable site on the University grounds for the new "Educational Building," after consultation with the architect of the University.

The president having submitted a letter from the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, transmitting their check for $6,250.00 in payment of the balance of their donation of $12,500.00 to establish a "Fellowship in Sociology," it was

Resolved: That the letter be entered of record, and the Bursar be instructed to deposit the check, with the "Virginia Trust Company," Richmond, to be invested by the Finance Committee, for the Fellowship, as indicated.

The letter follows,—

In accordance with the authorization of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, referred to in my letter of January 31st, 1912, I beg to enclose herewith our check for $6,250.00, being payment of the balance of the Endowment Fund to create a Fellowship for the study of the negro, under the terms and conditions outlined in my letter of January 31st, 1912.

As this completes the payment to this endowment, kindly send me your acknowledgement of the same.

The Rector submitted the following letter from Mr. C. Lee Moore, Auditor of Public Accounts,—

The Board of Visitors of your Institution should, in session, by resolution, designate such officers of the Institution as they may elect, to make demands, monthly, in the corporate name of the Institution upon the Auditor of Public Accounts for the payments of the several funds appropriated to your Institution. Copy of the resolution adopted by the Board in session, should be duly certified to this office, so that I may, on and after June 1st, 1912, draw warrants on the Treasury payable to the Institution in its corporate name, which warrants will be mailed direct from this office to such officer of the Institutions as the resolution may direct. The resolution can be so drawn as to have force and effect until changed by similar resolution adopted by that Board.

I adopt this method that the money may be paid direct to the Institution in accordance with the provisions of the Actmaking the appropriation.

And, in accordance therewith, it was unanimously,

Resolved,-

That the Bursar be authorized to make demands, monthly, in the corporate name of the University of Virginia, upon the Auditor of Public Accounts for the payments of the several funds appropriated to this Institution, and to receive warrants therefor, and to receipt for same. This authority to remain in force and effect until changed by action of this Board.

Resolved: That the proposition embodied in the letter of Messrs. Johnson & Price, dated May 7, 1912, which is as follows:-

Believing that there is room and demand for a second drug store at the University of Virginia, we have decided to make the following offer,

1st— That we erect a building on the East Side of the present University Post-Office building with such architectural features as will improve the general appearance of the University entrance, and in accordance with the demands of the Board of Visitors at a cost not to exceed $3,000. This new building to house the Post Office.

2nd— That we pay to the University the sum of $300.00 per annum as a ground rent for the lot on which the proposed new Post Office is to be erected; and that we be given a lease on this property for a period of years and under similar terms as those granted to professors who build on University land.

3rd— That we be given possession of the old Post Office room at the same rental as is charged the Post Office department, at present, and that this lease run for twenty-five (25) years.

4th— That we be allowed to improve the appearance of the front of the building now occupied by the Post Office, and also be permitted to extend this building in the rear 25 feet more or less as shall be necessary for the drug business. All of this is to be done at our expense.

The following are some of the benefits which would come to the University of Virginia from the acceptance of this offer,

1st— The University will have an increased income of $300.00 per year, without any additional investment.

2nd— The architectural appearance of the University entrance will be greatly improved.

3rd— A new and more attractive Post-Office will be secured.

4th— The students, professors, and University community will be greatly benefitted by reasonable competition in trade and character of service.

—be accepted, subject to the following conditions,—

1st— That the Counsel for the University report that the Rector and Visitors have such control of the premises as would enable them to enter into such a contract.

2nd— That the plan of the proposed structure be approved by the Board.

3rd— That the building to be erected on the vacant lot shall cost $4,000.00 instead of $3,000.00.

4th— That the lease of the Post Office to the United States Government can be transferred to the new building.

5th— That the details of the contract be worked out and recommended to the Board on the foregoing basis, by a Committee of the Board, consisting of the Rector, the President, and the Superintendent of Grounds and Buildings, whose determination, when approved by the Board, shall be final.

The President presented, for consideration of the Board, a report prepared by the "Commons Committee," recommending that "Commons" be not operated by the University, as at present; but that the Dining Hall and equipment be leased out for the session 1912-1913; and submitting a proposed scheme, and tentative contract looking to that end. After due consideration, of the plan, and consultation with Professor Newcomb, Chairman of the Committee, it was—

Resolved: That the proposition be approved, as to its essential features, and referred back to Committee on Commons for some minor changes, and with power to make contract with lessee, carrying same into effect.

Whereas, the General Alumni Association has requested the Rector and Visitors of the University, without interfering with the present law regulating the presently existing system of Alumni Scholarships, to enact an alternative system whereby the local Alumni Associations may provide other scholarships by paying therefor, and donate them to the University, while retaining the power of appointment of the incumbent, and that such associations be known as "Scholarship Alumni Associations:"

Resolved: That such plan be, and the same is hereby adopted; and the local Alumni Associations, are invited to establish such scholarships.

Resolved: That at all public functions of the University the Visitors of the University be requested to wear the regulation "Visitors" or "Trustees' Gown"; and that the President of the University be authorized to procure such gowns and appropriate mortar-board caps.

Resolved: That the Board having received and considered the application of Mr. Henry Rutledge Buist of Charleston, S. C., to return to him a donation of $1,000.00 made by him for the restoration of the University buildings in 1895, regret very much their inability to comply with Mr. Buist's request. The donations for this purpose have long since been expended in the restoration of the burned buildings; and there is no fund out of which this sum could be returned to Mr. Buist, according to law.

Resolved: That the petition of Mr. H. W. Hopewell in regard to the Hospital, be referred to Dr. Watts, for a report to the Board.

The request of Mrs. James B. Green, that she be allowed to retain the occupancy of the house now in her possession, until she can make some other arrangement, was read, and on motion, it was

Resolved: That Mrs. Green be allowed to retain said property for the year ending July 1st, 1913, at same rate of rental.

Whereas, it appearing to the Board that the annual meeting of the "Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" was not held on yesterday, the day preceding the annual meeting of this Board, and it further appearing that by the provision of the third section of the deed of trust constituting said trustees of the said endowment fund that in the event the "Alumni Board of Trustees of the University of Virginia Endowment Fund" should fail to hold its meeting on the day preceding that fixed by the Board of Visitors to determine the expenditures for the succeeding year, it shall pay over all of the said annual income for said year to the Bursar to be expended as this Board may direct," and it further appearing to this Board from the report of Eppa Hunton, Jr., prepared for submission to the annual meeting of the said Trustees that there will be available from the several funds constituting said Endowment Fund for the present fiscal year as follows:

Resolved, that, the said Eppa Hunton, Jr., Treasurer of the said Alumni Board of Trustees of the "University of Virginia Endowment Fund" be requested to pay over the said income quarterly as the same shall be collected by him to the Bursar of the University of Virginia, and the said Bursar is hereby directed, upon the receipt of the said sums from the said Eppa Hunton, Jr., Treas., to execute to him a due and proper voucher for such payments, to be expended as follows,—

Resolved: That the estimates of the Income and the appropriation of the same as recommended in the report of the President, be approved as follows:

In response to the call of the 2nd instant, for a meeting of the Board of Visitors for this date, the following members appeared, the Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Craddock, and Norton.

The Rector appointed Judge J. K. M. Norton a member of the executive committee, vice Judge Shackelford, resigned.

On account of absence of a quorum, no official business was transacted.

In accordance with the authorization of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, referred to in my letter of January 31st, 1912, I beg to enclose herewith our check for $6,250.00, being payment of the balance of the Endowment Fund to create a Fellowship for the study of the negro, under the terms and conditions outlined in my letter of January 31st, 1912.

As this completes the payment to this endowment, kindly send me your acknowledgement of the same.

The Board of Visitors of your Institution should, in session, by resolution, designate such officers of the Institution as they may elect, to make demands, monthly, in the corporate name of the Institution upon the Auditor of Public Accounts for the payments of the several funds appropriated to your Institution. Copy of the resolution adopted by the Board in session, should be duly certified to this office, so that I may, on and after June 1st, 1912, draw warrants on the Treasury payable to the Institution in its corporate name, which warrants will be mailed direct from this office to such officer of the Institutions as the resolution may direct. The resolution can be so drawn as to have force and effect until changed by similar resolution adopted by that Board.

I adopt this method that the money may be paid direct to the Institution in accordance with the provisions of the Actmaking the appropriation.

Believing that there is room and demand for a second drug store at the University of Virginia, we have decided to make the following offer,

1st— That we erect a building on the East Side of the present University Post-Office building with such architectural features as will improve the general appearance of the University entrance, and in accordance with the demands of the Board of Visitors at a cost not to exceed $3,000. This new building to house the Post Office.

2nd— That we pay to the University the sum of $300.00 per annum as a ground rent for the lot on which the proposed new Post Office is to be erected; and that we be given a lease on this property for a period of years and under similar terms as those granted to professors who build on University land.

3rd— That we be given possession of the old Post Office room at the same rental as is charged the Post Office department, at present, and that this lease run for twenty-five (25) years.

4th— That we be allowed to improve the appearance of the front of the building now occupied by the Post Office, and also be permitted to extend this building in the rear 25 feet more or less as shall be necessary for the drug business. All of this is to be done at our expense.

The following are some of the benefits which would come to the University of Virginia from the acceptance of this offer,

1st— The University will have an increased income of $300.00 per year, without any additional investment.

2nd— The architectural appearance of the University entrance will be greatly improved.

3rd— A new and more attractive Post-Office will be secured.

4th— The students, professors, and University community will be greatly benefitted by reasonable competition in trade and character of service.

Financial Budget—University of Virginia—1912-1913 Estimated Resources available for Current Expenses.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Grants by State:

Annuity,

$80,000 00

Students' Loan,

800 00

Hospital, (special)

18,000 00

98,800 00

From Endowments:

From Alumni Board of Trustees for General Purposes,

$41,400 00

for Curry Fund,

4,950 64

for Barbour-Page Fund,

1,100 00

for Fuller, Fund,

500 00

for Rives Fund,

250 00

for Cary Fund,

550 00

48,750 64

Corcoran Fund, (W. W. Corcoran Donation)

6,000 00

Miller Fund, (Samuel Miller Bequest)

6,000 00

Kent Fund, (Linden Kent Chair of Eng. Lit.)

3,048 00

Vanderbilt Fund, (Observatory Fund)

4,100 00

Cary Fund, (Bible Lectureship Fund)

2,300 00

Library Fund, (4 Funds)

1,198 00

J. W. Scott Fund, (Engineering Dep't.)

200 00

Rogers Fund, (Physical Dep't.)

60 00

Mason Fund, (Fellowship)

210 00

Phelps-Stokes Fund, (Fellowship)

360 00

Birely Fund, (Scholarship)

260 00

Merrick Fund, (Scholarship)

100 00

Brown Fund, (Scholarship)

87 00

Cabell Fund, (Scholarship)

60 00

Bryan Fund, (Medal)

7 50

23,990 50

From Bequests and Donations:

Austin Estate,

10,000 00

James Estate,

5,324 11

General Education Board,

3,000 00

Adkins Donation,

3 00

18,327 11

From Students:

For Fees, Tuition, & Rents, est. 800 at $90.00

72,000 00

On deferred payments, Time Notes & Accounts,

1,500 00

73,500 00

From All Other Sources:

Rents, Steam Heat, Electric Lights, etc.,

6,800 00

Total Estimated Resources,—

270,168 25

Detailed Expenditures.

I. General Administrations:

(a) Salaries:

Edwin A. Alderman, President,

$8,000 00

Howard Winston, Registrar,

1,000 00

Stenographer & Sec'y., Executive Offices,

900 00

Clerk and Messenger, Executive Offices,

530 00

Janitor, Executive Offices,

96 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

Advertising,

2,500 00

Alumni Bulletin,

1,000 00

Annual Catalogue,

1,500 00

Contingent Fund,

3,500 00

Commencement Fund,

300 00

Entertainment Fund,

750 00

Diplomas,

200 00

Printing and Publication,

x x x

20,276 00

II. Business Administration:

(a) Salaries:

Bursar, I. K. Moran, (incl. rent)

1,950 00

Assistant, (spl.).......... July 1—Oct. 1.)

450 00

Bookkeeper, C. H. H. Thomas,

850 00

Stenographer, V. E. Moran,

250 00

Legal Counsel, John B. Moon,

1,000 00

Secretary, Board of Visitors,

100 00

Secretary, Alumni Board,

100 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

Interest on Debt,

8,000 00

Sinking Fund,

2,000 00

State Students' Loan Fund,

800 00

15,500 00

III. College and Graduate Departments.

1\. Latin:

Professor, Thomas Fitz-Hugh (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, James S. McLenore,

850 00

Instructor,

400 00

Instructor,

300 00

4,850 00

2\. Greek:

Professor, M. W. Humphreys, (2 1/2 mos.)

687 50

Professor, - - - - - - - - - - 9 1/2 mos. at $2750.

2,177 00

Adjunct Professor, James S. McLemore

400 00

3,264 50

Forward

8,114 50

Brought Forward

8,114 50

3\. Edgar Allan Poe School of English:

Professor, C. Alphonso Smith, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Instructor,

50 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,

200 00

3,550 00

4\. English Literature:

Professor, Charles W. Kent, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, Charles W. Paul,

1,200 00

Adjunct Professor, Weldon T. Myers,

1,000 00

Assistant,

200 00

Assistant,

200 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,

200 00

Special for Books, &c.

48 00

6,148 00

5\. Romance Languages:

Professor, Richard H. Wilson,

3,300 00

Instructor, H. P.

700 00

Instructor,

700 00

Board of Visitors Fellowship,

200 00

4,900 00

6\. Mathematics:

Professor, James Morris Page,

3,300 00

Professor, W. H. Echols, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Instructor,

390 00

Instructor, (Mason Fellowship)

210 00

Instructor,

250 00

8,050 00

7\. Astronomy:

Professor, Ormond Stone, 2 1/2 mos. (incl. rent)

687 50

Professor, 9 1/2 mos.

2,612 50

Vanderbilt Fellowships:

(a)

350 00

(b)

350 00

(c)

350 00

Observatory Appropriation,

405 00

4,755 00

8\. Physics:

Associate Professor, L. G. Hoxton,

2,250 00

Adjunct Professor, C. M. Sparrow,

1,500 00

Instructor,

300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

900 00

Wm. B. Rogers' Bequest, (for books, &c.)

60 00

Janitor Service,

200 00

5,510 00

Forward

41,027 50

Brought Forward

41,027 50

9\. Chemistry:

Professor, F. P. Dunnington,

3,300 00

Professor, R. M. Bird,

2,500 00

Associate Professor, Graham Edgar,

1,950 00

Instructor, J. G. Dinwiddie,

750 00

Instructor,

500 00

Instructor,

300 00

Instructor,

250 00

Instructor,

250 00

Instructor,

325 00

Assistant,

60 00

Assistant,

60 00

Assistant, (Prof. Edgar)

150 00

Laboratory Appropriation, all Departments,

850 00

Janitor Service, 3 laboratories,

630 00

11,875 00

10\. Biology:

Professor, A. H. Tuttle, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Adjunct Professor, W. A. Kepner,

1,600 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

400 00

5,300 00

11\. Geology:

Professor, Thomas L. Watson,

2,000 00

Adjunct Professor, J. S. Grasty,

1,500 00

Instructor,

450 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

350 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

4,525 00

12\. History:

Professor, R. H. Dabney,

3,300 00

Instructor,

300 00

Rives Fellowship,

200 00

3,800 00

13\. Economics:

Professor, F. W. Page,

3,000 00

Adjunct Professor Polit. Sc., W. M. Hunley,

1,250 00

Assistant,

300 00

4,550 00

14\. Philosophy:

Professor, Albert Lefevre,

3,300 00

Assistant,

250 00

Assistant,

250 00

Assistant,

250 00

4,050 00

Forward

75,127 50

Brought Forward

75,127 50

15\. Education:

Professor, W. H. Heck, 2 1/2 mos. at $1250.00

260 40

Professor, W. H. Heck, 9 1/2 mos. at 2750.00

2,177 00

Professor, C. G. Maphis,

2,500 00

Professor,

3,000 00

Travelling Expenses, Secondary Education,

500 00

8,437 40

16\. Biblical History and Literature:

Professor, W. M. Forrest,

2,300 00

2,300 00

17\. Germanic Languages:

Associate Professor, W. H. Faulkner,

2,500 00

Assistant, (spl.)

150 00

2,650 00

18\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, James M. Page,

350 00

Scholarships and Fellowships:

(a) Miller,

250 00

(b) Miller,

250 00

(c) Miller,

250 00

(d) Thompson Brown,

87 00

(e) Valentine Birely,

260 00

(f) H. C. Cabell,

60 00

(g) State High Schools,

100 00

(h) Phelps-Stokes Fellowship,

360 00

(i) Isaac Cary Scholarship,

550 00

Bryan Medal Fund,

7 50

Janitor Service, Cabell Hall,

180 00

2,704 50

Total for C. & G. Dept's.,

91,219 40

IV. Law Department:

(a) Salaries:

Professor, W. M. Lile, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, C. A. Graves, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, R. C. Minor, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Professor, A. M. Dobie,

2,750 00

Adjunct Professor, G. B. Eager,

1,500 00

Instructor,

750 00

Instructor,

750 00

Assistant,

375 00

Law Librarian,

500 00

Assistant Law Librarian,

250 00

Instructor in Pub. Speaking & Parl. Law,

300 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

Library Appropriation,

1,500 00

Janitor Service,

270 00

18,845 00

Forward

$

Brought Forward

$

V. Medical Department:

1\. Anatomy:

Professor, R. H. Whitehead,

3,300 00

Instructor,

500 00

Anatomical Laboratory Appropriation,

750 00

Janitor Service, Dissecting Hall,

300 00

4,850 00

2\. Histology & Embryology:

Professor, H. E. Jordan,

2,750 00

Assistant,

50 00

Assistant,

50 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

350 00

3,200 00

3\. Physiology:

Professor, Theodore Hough,

3,000 00

Assistant,

300 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

450 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

4,000 00

4\. Bacteriology & Pathology:

Professor, H. T. Marshall,

3,000 00

Instructor,

800 00

Assistant,

120 00

Assistant,

100 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

600 00

Janitor Service, Medical Hall,

275 00

4,895 00

5\. Pharmacology, Materia Medica, &c.:

Adjunct Professor, J. Alex. Waddell,

1,500 00

Instructor,

300 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

500 00

Janitor Service,

250 00

2,550 00

6\. Clinical Medicine:

Professor, J. C. Flippin,

2,500 00

Instructor,

1,000 00

Laboratory Appropriation,

250 00

3,750 00

7\. Practice of Medicine:

Professor, J. S. Davis,

3,300 00

8\. Surgery and Gynecology:

Professor, S. H. Watts,

3,000 00

Adjunct Professor, W. H. Goodwin,

1,400 00

Assistant, (in Surgery)

200 00

4,600 00

9\. Obstetrics:

Professor, W. D. Macon,

1,000 00

Forward

32,145 00

Brought Forward

32,145 00

10\. Diseases of Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat:

Professor, H. S. Hedges,

250 00

Professor, R. F. Compton,

250 00

500 00

11\. Hygiene:

Professor, W. A. Lambeth, (incl. rent)

2,750 00

12\. Miscellaneous:

Dean, R. H. Whitehead,

250 00

Hospital,

15,000 00

Dispensary,

300 00

Dispensary Pharmacist,

100 00

Janitor Service, Dispensary,

150 00

Maintenance, Animal House,

75 00

15,875 00

Total Medical Department:

51,270 00

VI. Engineering Department:

(a) Salaries:

Professor, W. M. Thornton, (incl. rent)

3,300 00

Associate Professor, J. L. Newcomb,

2,500 00

Associate Professor, Charles Hancock,

2,250 00

Adjunct Professor, W. S. Rodman,

1,500 00

Instructor,

900 00

Assistant, (C.E.)

200 00

Assistant, (C.E.)

200 00

Assistant, (M.E.)

250 00

Assistant, (M.E.)

200 00

Assistant,

200 00

Assistant,

250 00

Merrick Scholarship,

100 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

Appropriation, Mechanical Laboratory,

500 00

Appropriation (spl.) Mechanical Laboratory, (lathes)

175 00

Janitor, Mechanical Laboratory,

300 00

Total for Engineering Dep't.

$12,825 00

VII. Summer School:

General Appropriation,

1,500 00

VIII. General Library:

(a) Salaries:

Librarian, John S. Patton,

1,600 00

Assistant Librarian, M. L. Dinwiddie,

500 00

Assistant Librarian,

300 00

Assistant Librarian, (spl.)

250 00

Forward

$2,650 00

Brought Forward

2,650 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

General Appropriation,

2,250 00

Income, from Endowment Funds,

1,198 00

Janitor Service,

300 00

6,398 00

IX. Buildings and Grounds:

(a) Salaries and Wages:

Superintendent, W. A. Lambeth,

750 00

Landscape Designer, W. H. Manning,

250 00

Foreman and Chief Mechanic,

1,000 00

Electrician, B. F. Kirby,

700 00

Plumber, Hugh Ford,

660 00

Engineer, (lighting plant) J. Golding,

660 00

Engineer, (heating plant) H. M. Lee,

280 00

Fireman, (heating plant)

210 00

Fireman, (lighting plant)

300 00

Fireman, (special heating stations)

280 00

Night Police & Watchman, R. W. Durrett,

420 00

Foreman on Grounds, L. W. Dudley,

540 00

8 Laborers on Grounds,

2,496 00

Janitor, Randall Building,

135 00

Janitor, Alumni Hall,

36 00

10 Janitors, Student Dormitories,

1,300 00

(b) Miscellaneous:

Repairs,

5,000 00

Improvements,

4,000 00

Reservoir and Water Line,

180 00

Insurance and Renewals,

1,200 00

Fuel—Heat and Light,

6,000 00

Supplies—Electrical,

500 00

Charlottesville Fire Department,

200 00

Gas, special lighting-

400 00

Total for Building & Grounds,

$27,497 00

X. Gymnasium:

(a) Salaries:

Associate Director, H. H. Lannigan,

300 00

Instructor, Phys. Culture,

200 00

Assistant, Phys. Culture,

130 00

Assistant, Phys. Culture,

100 00

(b) Equipment, heat & light,

450 00

Janitor Service,

225 00

1,405 00

Forward

Brought Forward

XI. Miscellaneous:

Dining Hall, Salary Chairman of Committee,

250 00

Madison Hall, (Maintenance)

200 00

Debating and Oratorical Union,

x x x

Debater's Medal,

50 00

Stenographer to Deans & Superintendent,

550 00

Organist and Organ Repairs,

300 00

Barbour-Page Lecture Fund,

1,100 00

Retiring Allowance, Henry Martin,

300 00

Retiring Allowance, Humphrey Shelton,

216 00

Philosophical Soceity,

1,000 00

Care of Cary Section, Shockoe Hill Cemetery,

30 00

James Estate, (Int. on Loan $29,500.00 at 5 percent)

1,475 00

5,471 00

XII. Temporary General Appropriations:

1\. Dawson's Row Improvements,

3,000 00

2\. Main Roadway Improvements,

2,000 00

3\. Geological Laboratory Equipment,

900 00

4\. Mechanical Laboratory Equipment,

2,000 00

5\. Bridge over Rugby Road,

350 00

6\. Rugby Read Improvement,

300 00

7\. Infirmary Building, Improvement, etc.,

1,000 00

8\. Alumni Register,

1,000 00

9\. John W. Daniel, portrait,

150 00

10\. Dining Hall, (estimated deficit)

2,000 00

11\. Seats for North Plaza,

150 00

12\. Confederate Veteran Reunion Expenses,

400 00

13\. Sewage Purification Plant,

1,500 00

14,750 00

Condensed Statement of Resources and

Expenditures embraced in foregoing Financial Budget.

——Resources——

$270,168 25

——Expenditures——

I. For General Administration,

20,276 00

II. For Business Administration,

15,500 00

III. For College and Graduate Departments,

91,219 40

IV. For Law Department,

18,845 00

V. For Medical Department,

51,270 00

VI. For Engineering Department,

12,825 00

VII. For Summer School Department,

1,500 00

VIII. For General Library, Department,

6,398 00

IX. For Buildings and Grounds Department,

27,497 00

X. For Gymnasium Grounds

1,405 00

XI. For Miscellaneous,

5,471 00

XII. For Temporary General Appropriations,

14,750 00

266,956 40

Balance Estimated Surplus,

3,211 85

Balance Estimated Surplus brought forward

3,211 85

The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of

Teaching, Estimated Receipts from Treasurer, monthly

13,520 76

16,732 61

XIII. Retiring Awards, as follows:

To Dr. J. W. Mallet,

2,500 00

To Prof. Francis H. Smith,

2,595 00

To Prof. William M. Fontaine,

2,050 00

To Prof. Ormond Stone, at $2050. (from Sept. 15th)

1,622 88

To Prof. Milton W. Humphreys, at 2050 (from Sept. 15th.)

1,622 88

To Isaac K. Moran, at $1460.00 (from Oct. 1st, 1912)

1,095 00

To Mrs. E. C. H. Davis,

1,000 00

To Mrs. E. L. Harrison,

1,033 00

13,520 76

Balance estimated Surplus,

3,211 85

On motion, the Board adjourned to meet in annual session, on Tuesday, June 11th, 1912.

In response to the call of the 2nd instant, for a meeting of the Board of Visitors for this date, the following members appeared, the Rector, and Visitors Harmon, Craddock, and Norton.

The Rector appointed Judge J. K. M. Norton a member of the executive committee, vice Judge Shackelford, resigned.

On account of absence of a quorum, no official business was transacted.

In accordance with the authorization of the Trustees of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, referred to in my letter of January 31st, 1912, I beg to enclose herewith our check for $6,250.00, being payment of the balance of the Endowment Fund to create a Fellowship for the study of the negro, under the terms and conditions outlined in my letter of January 31st, 1912.

As this completes the payment to this endowment, kindly send me your acknowledgement of the same.

The Board of Visitors of your Institution should, in session, by resolution, designate such officers of the Institution as they may elect, to make demands, monthly, in the corporate name of the Institution upon the Auditor of Public Accounts for the payments of the several funds appropriated to your Institution. Copy of the resolution adopted by the Board in session, should be duly certified to this office, so that I may, on and after June 1st, 1912, draw warrants on the Treasury payable to the Institution in its corporate name, which warrants will be mailed direct from this office to such officer of the Institutions as the resolution may direct. The resolution can be so drawn as to have force and effect until changed by similar resolution adopted by that Board.

I adopt this method that the money may be paid direct to the Institution in accordance with the provisions of the Actmaking the appropriation.

Believing that there is room and demand for a second drug store at the University of Virginia, we have decided to make the following offer,

1st— That we erect a building on the East Side of the present University Post-Office building with such architectural features as will improve the general appearance of the University entrance, and in accordance with the demands of the Board of Visitors at a cost not to exceed $3,000. This new building to house the Post Office.

2nd— That we pay to the University the sum of $300.00 per annum as a ground rent for the lot on which the proposed new Post Office is to be erected; and that we be given a lease on this property for a period of years and under similar terms as those granted to professors who build on University land.

3rd— That we be given possession of the old Post Office room at the same rental as is charged the Post Office department, at present, and that this lease run for twenty-five (25) years.

4th— That we be allowed to improve the appearance of the front of the building now occupied by the Post Office, and also be permitted to extend this building in the rear 25 feet more or less as shall be necessary for the drug business. All of this is to be done at our expense.

The following are some of the benefits which would come to the University of Virginia from the acceptance of this offer,

1st— The University will have an increased income of $300.00 per year, without any additional investment.

2nd— The architectural appearance of the University entrance will be greatly improved.

3rd— A new and more attractive Post-Office will be secured.

4th— The students, professors, and University community will be greatly benefitted by reasonable competition in trade and character of service.
