---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1920'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1920) November 10, 1920
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 10, 1920

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

INSTRUCTORS, ASSISTANTS, AND STUDENT ASSISTANTS.COLLEGE DEPARTMENTLAW DEPARTMENT.DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINEENGINEERING DEPARTMENTSCHOLARSHIPS.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.

Chemistry, additional instructor,

$800

Chemistry, additional apparatus,

500

2.

Physiology, apparatus and laboratory additions,

900

$ 2200

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date at 8 o'clock p.m. There were present Rector Bryan, and Visitors Dillard, Duke, Hart, Hatton, Oliver, Robertson, Scott and Walker.

The minutes of the previous meeting, having been copied and sent to the members for examination, were approved.

The President announced the following gifts:

From Mr. Paul Goodloe McIntire, $24,000 for a pipe organ for the amphitheatre.

From Mrs. Louis Bennett of Weston, W. Va., $3500 for the establishment of a fellowship in Law in memory of her husband, the late Hon. Louis Bennett.

From Mrs. W. H. Heck, to the Department of Education, the library of her husband, the late Prof. Wm. Harry Heck.

With respect to the foregoing gifts, the President was directed to express to each of the donors the appreciation of the Board and record a copy of the same upon the minutes of this meeting.

It was my privilege to report to the Board of Visitors at their fall meeting on November 10, your handsome additional gift of $24,000 for a pipe organ for the amphitheatre and for such changes in the amphitheatre as the installation of the organ made necessary. I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you the expression of their profound appreciation of your renewed and far-seeing generosity and good will to the University. They cherish profoundly your good service to the institution, and beg me to assure you that they will do all in their power to see that your wise gifts are thoughtfully and rightly used for the education of our youth. May I be permitted to add the expression of my own deep gratitude and personal affection and esteem.

I am authorized by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to communicate to you the expression of their profound gratitude for your generosity and wisdom in the establishment of the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law. The Visitors begged me to assure you that they will take care that the scholarship is duly founded and rightly administered in the interest of securing for worthy young men proper instruction in the great subject. in which your husband achieved distinction. The scholarship will appear in our catalogue as the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law, and we will take pains to acquaint you from year to year of the incumbent of the scholarship.

Assuring you again of the high esteem of the Rector and Visitors and of myself, I am,

I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you an expression of their appreciation and gratitude for the gift of the library of your husband, the late Professor William Harry Heck. They begged me to assure you that this library will be duly preserved in honor of a devoted teacher and scholar long in the service of the University.

The President recommended the following appointments of instructors and assistants, and scholarship holders for the present session:

Astronomy:

J. D. Koep, Fellow

Philip Trudella, Fellow

Biology:

M. M. Janvier, Assistant

Chemistry:

E. R. Hopkins, Student Assistant

H. B. McKay, Student Assistant

E. T. Brading, Student Assistant

R. G. Waterhouse, Student Assistant

J. M. Page, Jr. Student Assistant

F. N. Williams, Student Assistant

Economics.

F. G. Ribble, Instructor Commercial Law

A. B. Coleman, Jr., Assistant Political Science

F. M. Davies, Instructor

S. M. Goodwin, Instructor

P. M. Payne, Instructor Government

E. L. Dyer, Assistant

S. B. Akers, Assistant Accounting

F. N. Caldwell, Assistant Accounting

English Literature:

G. S. Warthen, Assistant

Geology:

A. B. Davies, Student Assistant

R. K. Holt, Student Assistant

A. A. Pegau, Student Assistant

P. L. Scrugges, Jr. Student Assistant

History:

T. J. Michie, Jr., Instructor

Latin:

James B. Orrick, Assistant

Mathematics:

Garland B. Briggs, Instructor

Wendell M. Coates, Instructor

R. W. Byrd, Assistant

J. P. Massie, Assistant

Geo. L. Goudy, Assistant

Benton B. Owen, Assistant

Philosophy:

W. W. Koontz, Student Assistant

L. J. Quesenberry, Student Assistant

T. L. Preston, Student Assistant

Elsworth Wiltshire, Student Assistant

Physics:

Robt. B. Torbett, Assistant

Macdonald Dick, Assistant

C. R. Larkin, Assistant

W. McN. Gilchrist, Assistant

Romanic Languages:

E. L. Lehman, Adjunct Professor

Geo. B. Dillard, Instructor in French

J. H. Green, Instructor in French

J. D. Tilghman, Instructor in French

H. H. Hill, Instructor in Spanish

H. D. Scott, Jr. Instructor in Spanish

P. N. Rhodes, Instructor in Spanish

R. T. D. Heaton, Assistant Commercial Geography

F. D. G. Ribble, Jr., Senior Assistant

T. J. Michie, Jr. Junior Assistant

Parsons Newman, Junior Assistant

Meade T. Spicer, Jr. Junior Assistant

Henry P. Morris, Junior Assistant

R. C. Coleman, Junior Assistant

Frank M. Wray, Assistant Law Librarian

Bacteriology & Pathology:

C. J. Reynolds, Instructor

Clinical Medicine:

R. M. Page, Student Assistant

J. W. Wright, Student Assistant

Histology & Embryology:

B. B. Nicholson, Instructor

Frank Helvestine, Assistant

J. S. Miller; Jr., Adjunct Professor

Geo. E. Clark, Instructor

J. W. Calcott, Instructor

L. E. Akers, Assistant

F. A. Hoeke, Assistant

C. L. Saunders, Assistant

H. C. Forrest, Instructor

N. J. Painter, Instructor

J. O'R. Coleman, Instructor

K. S. Wingfield, Instructor

Victor H. Friend, Shop Assistant

PHYSICAL EDUCATION:

F. W. Davies, Instructor

Folkes Scholarships:

J. Overton Porter, Lynchburg, Va.

J. M. B. Lewis, Jr., Lynchburg, Va.

Fendall L. Gregory, Lynchburg, Va.

Mike Jones, Jr., Gladys, Va.

Skinner Scholarships:

Harry C. Beck, Norristown, Pa.

Samuel B. Chilton, Culpeper, Va.

Kenneth Goodridge, Montross, Va.

Walkley E. Johnson, Accomac, Va.

William H. Laird, Jr., Alexandria, Va.

Roland Padgett, Fredericksburg, Va.

Spencer, R. MacCulloch,, Strasburg, Va.

Valentine Birely Scholarship:

Lee A. McCardell, Braddock Heights, Md.

Upon the recommendation of the President, the following appropriations were made:

Necessary enlargement of the amphitheatre to care for pipe organ, $8133.

Necessary increase in salaries of hospital staff, $3210.

Necessary increases in wages to orderlies, cooks, maids, and other help at the hospital, $750.

To carry on the work of the School of Spannish necessitated by the illness of Dr. Bardin, $111.10 per month

To carry on the work of the School of Biology, necessitated by the increase in students, $100.

The additional income from tuition fees in the first year medical class, amounting to $2200, was appropriated as follows:

Laboratories -

For furnishing new Biological Laboratory, $1675

For Mr. Eugene Bradbury, architect, for services in connection with the Biological Laboratory, $911.91

For bills of Charlottesville Lumber Co. and the University for work done at the President's residence, $70.

Upon the recommendation of the chairman of the registration committee, and with the approval of the President, the follow- ing changes in registration fee were adopted:

1\. That the Delayed Registration fee be raised from $3 to $5.

2\. That old students in the College who fail the register during the spring registration period, be charged a fee of $5 for registration in the College at the opening of the session.

Action upon the suggestion, from alumni and others, that the new Biological Laboratory be names for Professor Albert H. Tuttle, was deferred.

The Rector announced the appointment of the following members to constitute the heating committee: The Rector, Mr. Scott and Mr. Duke.

With respect to providing funds needed to make the preliminary arrangements for the celebration of the Centennial at the University and the raising of the University of Virginia Centennial Endowment Fund, the following resolution adopted by the Finance Committee was presented and unanimously approved: RESOLVED, That the Bursar of the University of Virginia be and he hereby is authorized to borrow on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia from the depositories of University funds (or from other banks if this be impracticable) such sums, not to exceed Twenty Thousand ($20,000) Dollars, as may be needed to make the preliminary arrangements for the celebration of the Centennial of the University, and the raising of the University of Virginia Centennial Endowment Fund. This indebtedness, including interest thereon, is to become the first charge against any and all monies collected for the University of Virginia Centennial Endowment Fund.

Upon the recommendation of the President, Mr. Leander McCormick Goodhart was elected to the visiting committee of the Leander McCormick Observatory.

The following action was had in the matter of the death of Mr. Lester L. Newman, which occured at the University Hospital on August 2nd, 1920:

The President, Dr. Alderman, first outlined the situation and with much feeling expressed to the Board his sincere concern that this young man should have come to an untimely death through this deplorable mistake. Dr. Alderman was followed by Dr. Flippin, who had been called into the operating room by Dr. Hedges at the time of the fatal operation, and who was with Dr. Hedges in all his subsequent connection with the case, Dr. Flippin went over the situation from its inception leaving no detail undeveloped, and thus laid before the Board a full, complete and exhaustive narrative covering each and every phase of the whole sad affair.

He was followed by Dr. Hedges, who himself administered the fatal anesthetic, and while Dr. Hedges could add nothing in substance to Dr. Flippin's statement he did elaborate some parts of it so that the Board might have a more intimate knowledge of the circumstances with which Dr. Hedges alone had been in touch.

At the conclusion of Dr. Hedge's statement, Dr. Alderman advised the Board that he had requested Mr. Perkins, as counsel for the University, to prepare and present to this meeting a formal statement of facts and a written opinion covering this case from two viewpoints: first, whether the University of Virginia is liable in damages for the death of this young man; and second, irrespective of legal liability, whether it lies within the power of this Board to appropriate a sum of money for the relief of his grief-stricken parents.

Mr. Perkins then presented his written statement of facts, which was read to Board in the presence of Drs. Hedges and Flippin, and which was approved by them as setting forth all of the facts clearly and succinctly. This statement was followed by Mr. Perkins reading a carefully prepared legal opinion, the conclusion of which, quoted verbatim, is as follows:

"In my opinion the University is not liable in the present case, and I am further of opinion that no authlrity has been delegated to this Board by the State to appropriate any of the funds under your control for such purpose as we now have under consideration."

A very full discussion was then had by the Board at the conclusion of which the written statement of facts and opinion submitted by counsel, as above set out, was ordered filed with the minutes of this meeting, and the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

RESOLVED, That with feelings of deepest sorrow we have learned of the tragic and untimely death of Mr. Lester L. Newman, which occurred in our hospital on August second of this year, and to his bereaved parents we extend the assurance of our heartfelt sympathy in this great loss which deprives them of a well loved only son, in whom was centered all of their future hopes.

To each of us individually it is a matter of sincere regret that the limitations of law thrown about this Board by our State are such as prevent any appropriation being made by way of compensation to Mr. and Mrs. Newman for this overwhelming affliction. We are at once made sorrowful by their bereavement, and this sorrow is deepened by a feeling of our utter helplessness to extend substantial comfort and effectual aid.

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That Dr. Alderman is hereby requested to send a copy of the above resolution to Mr. and Mrs. Newman.

And in fulfillment of the statement contained in letter of our attorney to Messrs. Snyder & Roberts attorney for Mr. Newman, under date of September 21st, copy of which is filed for his opinion, Mr. Perkins is requested to at once advise Messrs. Snyder and Roberts of the action taken at this meeting, transmitting to these gentlemen a copy of the above resolution and a transcript of the proceedings leading up to its adoption.

The President stated that the University Cafeteria was being well patronized by the student body, and as a financial venture was proving highly successful, due in a large measure to the splendid management of Prof. J. L. Newcomb. The President was requested to extend to Prof. Newcomb the thanks of the Board for his services in this connection.

The committee on the new heating plant made a verbal report as to its activities. After a general discussion the matter was recommitted.

The President advised the Board that due to the illness of Prof. Thomas Fitz-Hugh, Adj. Prof. J. L. McLemore had been carrying Prof. Fitz-Hugh's classes, and he recommended adequate compensation be made therefor. The President was directed to make such arrangement with Prof. McLemore as he deemed proper.

The meeting then adjourned.

It was my privilege to report to the Board of Visitors at their fall meeting on November 10, your handsome additional gift of $24,000 for a pipe organ for the amphitheatre and for such changes in the amphitheatre as the installation of the organ made necessary. I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you the expression of their profound appreciation of your renewed and far-seeing generosity and good will to the University. They cherish profoundly your good service to the institution, and beg me to assure you that they will do all in their power to see that your wise gifts are thoughtfully and rightly used for the education of our youth. May I be permitted to add the expression of my own deep gratitude and personal affection and esteem.

I am authorized by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to communicate to you the expression of their profound gratitude for your generosity and wisdom in the establishment of the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law. The Visitors begged me to assure you that they will take care that the scholarship is duly founded and rightly administered in the interest of securing for worthy young men proper instruction in the great subject. in which your husband achieved distinction. The scholarship will appear in our catalogue as the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law, and we will take pains to acquaint you from year to year of the incumbent of the scholarship.

Assuring you again of the high esteem of the Rector and Visitors and of myself, I am,

I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you an expression of their appreciation and gratitude for the gift of the library of your husband, the late Professor William Harry Heck. They begged me to assure you that this library will be duly preserved in honor of a devoted teacher and scholar long in the service of the University.

It was my privilege to report to the Board of Visitors at their fall meeting on November 10, your handsome additional gift of $24,000 for a pipe organ for the amphitheatre and for such changes in the amphitheatre as the installation of the organ made necessary. I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you the expression of their profound appreciation of your renewed and far-seeing generosity and good will to the University. They cherish profoundly your good service to the institution, and beg me to assure you that they will do all in their power to see that your wise gifts are thoughtfully and rightly used for the education of our youth. May I be permitted to add the expression of my own deep gratitude and personal affection and esteem.

I am authorized by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to communicate to you the expression of their profound gratitude for your generosity and wisdom in the establishment of the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law. The Visitors begged me to assure you that they will take care that the scholarship is duly founded and rightly administered in the interest of securing for worthy young men proper instruction in the great subject. in which your husband achieved distinction. The scholarship will appear in our catalogue as the Louis Bennett Scholarship in Law, and we will take pains to acquaint you from year to year of the incumbent of the scholarship.

Assuring you again of the high esteem of the Rector and Visitors and of myself, I am,

I am instructed by the Rector and Visitors to communicate to you an expression of their appreciation and gratitude for the gift of the library of your husband, the late Professor William Harry Heck. They begged me to assure you that this library will be duly preserved in honor of a devoted teacher and scholar long in the service of the University.
