---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1922'
month: 11
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1922) November 29, 1922
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

November 29, 1922

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

0 pages

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ATTENDANCE FOR THE SESSIONGIFTS RECEIVED
----------------------------------------

College

998

Education

45

Graduate

61

Engineering

162

Law

237

Medicine

170

Total

1,673

Women students

30

A special meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date with the following members present:

Visitors - H. D. Dillard, W. R. Duke, W. T. Oliver, Fred. W. Scott, L. C. Williams, and

President Alderman.

In the absence of the Rector, Mr. Scott was elected Chairman of the meeting.

The President announced the following:

From Mr. A. W. Erickson to the Library of the Department of Education $2000.00

From Hon. John Bassett Moore books on International Law to the Law Library

From Mrs. Frances Eppes Shine a medal presented to Thomas Jefferson for writing the Declaration of Independence.

From Dr. William H. Crawford, of Alleghany College, Pa., a copy of a letter from Mr. Jefferson to Alleghany College.

The President was authorized to prepare and to send to each of the donors suitable resolutions of thanks and appreciation on behalf of the Board.

On motion duly seconded the following was adopted, Mr. Oliver voting in the negative:

RESOLVED, That the following recommendation of the Engineering Faculty be adopted:

"In view of the impressive and growing demand from practicing engineers and industrial leaders that Schools of Engineering should enlarge the field of study to embrace more of the humanities and better opportunities for student research, resolved.

I. That the engineering curriculum of the University of Virginia should be enlarged from four to five years.

II. That courses should be offered in modern languages, history government, sociology, philosophy and like studies.

III. That graduate courses should be developed in each of the main divisions of engineering instruction.

IV. That the B. S. degree be given at the end of the Senior year and the specialized degree (C.E., M.E., E.E., etc.) at the end of the graduate year.

V. That the President be requested to authorize the announcement of the new curriculum in the forthcoming catalogue, obtaining the sanction of the Visitors, if this be needed.

VI. That the entering class of 1923-24 and subsequent classes be matriculated under the new program.

VII. That students registered before 1923 be permitted to graduate upon the completion of the present curriculum, but not later than June 1926."

The President read a letter from Prof. Kimball, Supervising Architect of the New Gymnasium, giving information as to its progress, etc., which required no action by the Board.

The question of adequate water pressure of the University grounds was considered and Mr. Duke was appointed to represent the Board in the question of water pressure on the grounds of the University, with authority to call in a member of the Engineering Faculty for consultation.

In the matter of adequate sewer for the New Gymnasium, Mr. Duke was authorized to call a meeting of the property owners at interest along the proposed line, to consider the matter.

A special appropriation of $350 was made to repair roof of the Barracks Machine Shop.

The question of annual charge for heat for residences on the grounds was considered and deferred until the next meeting of the Board.

Prof. Hancock, Supervising construction of Central Heating Plant, was authorized to employ a superintendent of the plant at $150 per month for four months.

On motion, duly seconded and adopted, a committee of two members of the Board was created to consider the matter of permanent endowment solicitations. The Chair appointed Messrs. Williams and McIntire.

On motion duly seconded and adopted, The Rector was authorized to transfer to the Alumni Board of Trustees a certificate for five shares of stock of the Commerce Bank and Trust Company standing in the name of the Rector and Visitors, which was donated to the Centennial Endowment Fund by McLane Tilton.

The Bursar presented the following letter received from W. Allen Perkins, Attorney for the University, in the matter of the disbursement of the income from the James Estate to the Soldiers Home:

Replying further to your letter of the 3d inst., with which you enclosed copy of resolution of the Board of Visitors passed at its meeting of October 17th, 1922, with reference to distribution of income from E. W. James Estate, together with a copy of your report to the Rector and Visitors presented by you, as I understand it, at their meeting of October 17th, allow me to say that after further consideration of this matter, I agree entirely in conclusion reached by you in this very clear and explicit report.

The phraseology of the will as to division of income between the Confederate Home and the University of Virginia would to my mind be conclusive of the matter even though the question had not been the subject of judicial determination, but in the light of phraseology of the decree entered by Judge McLemore, I see no escape from the conclusion that during the entire period we have been receiving this income we have received $25.00 per month more than should have been paid to us.

I think, therefore, that the Virginia Trust Company should be instructed to pay the Soldiers Home, when the period for the distribution of the income shall have been completed, the sum of $4500.00, which as I understand the situation is the total of excess payments received by us during the fifteen year period. In making said payment the Trust Company should be requested to deduct one-half of said amount from 1923 payment of income to the University and the other half from January 1924 payment of said income, this method being that which is referred to in the resolution of the Rector and Visitors at their October meeting.

WA P-b

On motion duly seconded, it was ordered that the opinion of the Attorney for the University, as given in the foregoing letter, be carried out.

On motion, duly seconded, the meeting then adjourned.

Replying further to your letter of the 3d inst., with which you enclosed copy of resolution of the Board of Visitors passed at its meeting of October 17th, 1922, with reference to distribution of income from E. W. James Estate, together with a copy of your report to the Rector and Visitors presented by you, as I understand it, at their meeting of October 17th, allow me to say that after further consideration of this matter, I agree entirely in conclusion reached by you in this very clear and explicit report.

The phraseology of the will as to division of income between the Confederate Home and the University of Virginia would to my mind be conclusive of the matter even though the question had not been the subject of judicial determination, but in the light of phraseology of the decree entered by Judge McLemore, I see no escape from the conclusion that during the entire period we have been receiving this income we have received $25.00 per month more than should have been paid to us.

I think, therefore, that the Virginia Trust Company should be instructed to pay the Soldiers Home, when the period for the distribution of the income shall have been completed, the sum of $4500.00, which as I understand the situation is the total of excess payments received by us during the fifteen year period. In making said payment the Trust Company should be requested to deduct one-half of said amount from 1923 payment of income to the University and the other half from January 1924 payment of said income, this method being that which is referred to in the resolution of the Rector and Visitors at their October meeting.

Replying further to your letter of the 3d inst., with which you enclosed copy of resolution of the Board of Visitors passed at its meeting of October 17th, 1922, with reference to distribution of income from E. W. James Estate, together with a copy of your report to the Rector and Visitors presented by you, as I understand it, at their meeting of October 17th, allow me to say that after further consideration of this matter, I agree entirely in conclusion reached by you in this very clear and explicit report.

The phraseology of the will as to division of income between the Confederate Home and the University of Virginia would to my mind be conclusive of the matter even though the question had not been the subject of judicial determination, but in the light of phraseology of the decree entered by Judge McLemore, I see no escape from the conclusion that during the entire period we have been receiving this income we have received $25.00 per month more than should have been paid to us.

I think, therefore, that the Virginia Trust Company should be instructed to pay the Soldiers Home, when the period for the distribution of the income shall have been completed, the sum of $4500.00, which as I understand the situation is the total of excess payments received by us during the fifteen year period. In making said payment the Trust Company should be requested to deduct one-half of said amount from 1923 payment of income to the University and the other half from January 1924 payment of said income, this method being that which is referred to in the resolution of the Rector and Visitors at their October meeting.
