---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1936'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1936) October 1, 1936
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 1, 1936

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

6 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

"EXHIBIT A""EXHIBIT B"GOVERNOR'S CERTIFICATE
--------------------------------------------

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

Royal Orchard,

Afton, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart

Abingdon, Virginia

Mr. James H. Corbitt

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams

American Nat. Bank Bldg.

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams

Winchester, Virginia

Mr. C. B. Garnett

Tower Building

14th & K. Sts., N. W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Virginia

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Building

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Virginia

Mrs. M. C. B. Munford

329 N. Harrison Street

Richmond, Virginia.

NAME

RESIDENCE

INSTITUTION

AMOUNT

Ash, Evelyn L.

Norfolk

Columbia

$61.48

Barnes, William H.

Manassas

Boston

63.20

Bluford, William E.

Clay Bank

U. Mich.

72.70

Brooks, Lyman B.

Blakes

U. Mich.

72.70

Brown, Antoinette M.

Ruthville

Ohio State

68.30

Carter, Millard T.

Nassawadox

Iowa State

87.53

Catus, Viola O.

Ettrick

Columbia

61.48

Cavell, Winston W.

Richmond

U. Mich.

72.70

Clark, E. Rosalia

Richmond

Harvard

53.70

Colson, Kate G.

Richmond

U. of Chicago

100.00

Coppage, Velma L.

Norfolk

Columbia

61.48

Daniel, Eunice L.

Richmond

Columbia

61.48

Davis, Marjorie E.

Norfolk

U. of Mich.

72.70

Davis, Thursa Felicia

Newport News

U. of Chicago

100.00

Edmunds, Beatrice D.

Richmond

U. Penna.

50.00

Gaither, Alonza S.

Lawrenceville

Ohio State

68.30

Gaskin, Sara Naomi

Trevillian

Ohio State

63.30

Henderson, T. H.

Richmond

U. Chicago

100.00

Higginbotham, Viola G.

Hampton

Columbia

61.48

Hill, Lester V.

Richmond

U. Mich.

72.70

Holmes, James E.

Richmond

U. Chicago

100.00

Howell, Samuel C.

Richmond

Temple

50.00

Ivy, James W.

Phoebus

N. U.

64.48

Jackson, Alma M.

Richmond

Columbia

61.48

Jeffriew, L. F.

Richmond

U. Chicago

100.00

Johnson, Albertine

Alexandria

Columbia

61.48

Johnson, Katherine Louisa

Richmond

Columbia

61.48

Johnson, Martha Ann

Hampton

Columbia

61.48

Jordan, Daisy T.

Lawrenceville

Columbia

61.48

Jordan, John A.

Lynchburg

U. Penna.

50.00

Knox, Marie J.

N. Emporia

U. Penna.

50.00

Linnette, H. M.

Richmond

U. Mich.

72.70

Liverpool, Geo. Wm.

Richmond

Ohio State

68.30

Lomax, Bernice E.

Lynchburg

Columbia

61.48

Miller, Allie Mildred

Clifton Forge

Columbia

61.48

Miller, Dorothy Johnston

Petersburg

Columbia

61.48

Morgan, Josie B.

Dillwyn

Columbia

61.48

Penister, Lucille E.

Petersburg

Temple

50.00

Richardson, A. G.

Lawrenceville

Temple

50.00

Segaer, James E.

Richmond

U. Penna.

50.00

Spencer, James P.

Richmond

U. Mich.

72.70

Thompson, Charlotte D.

Richmond

U. Penna.

50.00

Thompson, Susie M.

Covington

Columbia

61.48

Travis, Nannie M.

Lawrenceville

Columbia

61.48

Turner, Alice L.

Roanoke

Columbia

61.48

Wingo, D. C.

Amelia

U. Mich.

72.70

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a State Institution located at Charlottesville, in the State of Virginia, was held at the office of the President at the University, on this date at 11 o'clock A.M.

Present: Messrs. Scott, Garnett, Corbitt, Rinehart, Stuart, Gray Williams, and Mrs. Munford.

Absent: Messrs. Goolrick, Hall and Lewis Williams.

The meeting was called to order by Mr. Frederic W. Scott, Rector.

E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of the Board of Visitors, presented and read a copy of the call of this meeting, duly signed by the Rector of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, under date of September 28th, 1936. Said call was in the following form.

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 o'clock A.M., at the office of the President of the University, for the following purposes:

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assemble of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and recepts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said Building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof?

E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of the Board, submitted to the meeting an affidavit of notice of said meeting. Said affidavit and the Exhibits attached thereto, were in the following form:

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution, the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached, marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors three days before the date of meeting therein referred to, by depositing on September 28th, 1936, a copy thereof, in the United States mails, in a securely sealed envelope, postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears of the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz.

(3) That prior to the date of the meeting refered to in said notice, acknowledgements of receipt of said notice, and waivers of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached, marked "Exhibit B", and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

Pursuant to call of The Rector a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at 11:00 o'clock A.M., on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President at the University, for the following purposes.

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building, to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Cahpter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constitution Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenence thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, as amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice, will you please date and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, and return the duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, to me so that it will reach me not later than the 30th instant?

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 A.M., at the office of the President, at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and to the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof.

Dated at\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this\_\_\_\_\_day of September, 1936.

The Rector directed that a copy of call of meeting and said affidavit, together with the acknowledgments of notice and waivers of notice, signed by each and every member of the Board of Visitors, be filed with the minutes of this meeting.

Mr. Rinehart thereupon introduced the following Resolutions.

RESOLUTION NO. 1

ACCEPTING THE OFFER OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO AID, BY WAY OF GRANT, IN FINANCING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A LIBRARY BUILDING, INCLUDING NECESSARY EQUIPMENT, TO HOUSE THE GENERAL LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY.

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, A STATE INSTITUTION, IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That the offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by of grant, in financing the construction, including necessary equipment, of a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia and to be erected upon the grounds of the University of Virginia, therein called the "Project", a copy of which offer reads as follows:

"Subject to the Rules and Regulations (PWA From No. 179, as amended to date) which are made a part hereof, the United States of America hereby offers to aid in financing the construction of a library building including necessary equipment, but not including the purchase of any library books (herein called the \`Project') by making a grant to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in the amount of 45 percent of the cost of the Project upon completion, as determined by the Federal Emergency administrator of Public Works, but not to exceed, in any event, the sum of $427,909.

be, and the same is hereby in all respects approved and accepted.

Section 2. That said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia agrees to abide by all the rules and regulations relating to such grant (PWA Form No. 179, July 22nd, 1935, as amended to date), which rules and regulations were made a part of the Government's offer.

Section 3. That E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and directed forthwith to send to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works three certified copies of this Resolution and three certified copies of the proceedings of this Board in connection with the adoption of this Resolution, and such further documents or proofs in connection with the acceptance of said offer as may be requested by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works.

Section 4. It is hereby convenanted that work on the Project described in the offer will be commenced as early as possible, but in no event later than December 1st, 1936, that the work will be planned so that it will reach a sub stantial peak before March 15th, 1937; and that the Project will be completed by January 30th, 1938.

The foregoing Resolution was read in full once to the meeting, and thereupon, on motion of Mr. Rinehart, seconded by Mr. Corbitt, said Resolution was adopted by the following vote:

Yeas: Messrs. Scott, Garnett, Corbitt, Rinehart, Stuart, Gray Williams, and Mrs. Mjnford.

Nays: None.

The Rector then stated that a copy of the foregoing Resolution had been presented to Honorable George C. Peery, Governor of Virginia, on Wednesday, September 30th, 1936, and that the Governor had on that day approved said Resolution and the contract of agreement between the United States of America and The Rector and Visitors of the University, to be created by the adoption of said Resolution.

An original copy of said approval, signed by the Governor, was then presented to the meeting and was ordered to be spread upon the minute Book as a part of the minutes of this meeting, and said original copy was ordered to be filed.

I, GEORGE C. PEERY, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, hereby certify that I have examined a Resolution proposed to be adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a special meeting of said Board, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President, at the University, and which Resolution is entitled.-

"A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE OFFER OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNITERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO AID, BY WAY OF GRANT, IN FINANCING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A LIBRARY BUILDING, INCLUDING NECESSARY EQUIPMENT, TO HOUSE THE GENERAL LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY".

I do hereby approve said Resolution and the contract of agreement between the United States of America and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which will be created by the adoption of said Resolution.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand this 30th day of September, 1936.

The President brought to the attention of the meeting a letter he had received from Mr. Bowen, the life tenant of the real estate bequeathed to the University as remainderman for the benefit of the University Hospital by the will of Miss Lizzie B. Miller, in which he stated that he was not renewing the fire insurance on the residence and other buildings, but that if the University wished to protect the said property it could do so.

Following some discussion of the matter, the President and Buildings & Grounds Committee were authorized to protect the property up to the amount of $4,000 of insurance.

The president announced to the Board that the Delta Chi Fraternity to whom the University had loaned $9,000 on its chapter house, had defaulted in meeting its payments of interest and principal and desired to surrender the property to the University in settlement of its loan and interest. The matter was disposed of in the following motion, adopted:

Resolved, that the President and Chairman of the Buildings & Grounds Committee proceed to secure title to the Delta Chi Fraternity property and that they determine the repairs to be made, if any, and the Buildings & Grounds Committee is authorized, in case public sale of the property be necessary to secure title, to bid such sum as may be necessary to protect the interest of the University.

Dr. George O. Ferguson, Jr., Chairman of the Students' Admission Application Committee, appointed at a meeting of the Board on June 8th 1936, reported that admission had been denied to the following applicants, whereupon the Board took the following action.

The Applications of the persons, or applicants whose names are set out below, having been considered by the Board, it is resolved and ordered that said applicants be and they hereby are denied admission to the University of Virginia.

And it appearing to the satisfaction of the Board that the persons or applicants above named are bona fide residents and citizens of Virginia, that they possess the qualifications of health, character, ability and preparatory education customarily required for admission to the University of Virginia, that they are unable to obtain from any Virginia State College, State University, or other State Institution, educational facilities equal to those here applied for, and that such equal ecucational facilities can be provided and furnished to said applicants by other colleges, universities and institutions not operated as an agency or institution of the State of Virginia, it is further resolved and ordered that, out of the funds appropriated by the State to the University of Virginia, said University do pay to said applicants, severally, or to the institution or institutions attended by them, as and when needed, such sums, if any, as may be necessary to supplement the amount which it would cost said applicants to attend the University of Virginia, said payments to be made pursuant to the authority vested in this Board by the provisions of chapter 352 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936 (Acts 1936, p. 561.). And there is hereby appropriated fo scholarships the amount of money set opposite the name of each of the above applicants.

The attention of the meeting was then called to the question of the issue of bonds of this Institution, aggregating $523,000.00, determination of the form thereof, and the terms and conditions under which said bonds are to be issued, secured and sold, and also to the other matters and things included in the statement of purposes contained in the call of this meeting. And it appearing to the meeting that since all of the data, necessary for the proper determination of these matters, is not available at the present time, but will be forthcoming within the next few weeks, it was, thereupon, further-unanimously.

RESOLVED, that this meeting be, and is hereby adjourned until Friday, October 23rd, 1936, at 8 o'clock, P. M., at the office of the President, at the University, at which time and place all other matters referred to in the call of this meeting will be considered and acted upon.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned.

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 o'clock A.M., at the office of the President of the University, for the following purposes:

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assemble of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and recepts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said Building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof?

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

Royal Orchard,

Afton, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart

Abingdon, Virginia

Mr. James H. Corbitt

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams

American Nat. Bank Bldg.

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams

Winchester, Virginia

Mr. C. B. Garnett

Tower Building

14th & K. Sts., N. W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Virginia

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Building

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Virginia

Mrs. M. C. B. Munford

329 N. Harrison Street

Richmond, Virginia.

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution, the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached, marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors three days before the date of meeting therein referred to, by depositing on September 28th, 1936, a copy thereof, in the United States mails, in a securely sealed envelope, postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears of the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz.

(3) That prior to the date of the meeting refered to in said notice, acknowledgements of receipt of said notice, and waivers of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached, marked "Exhibit B", and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

"EXHIBIT A"
-----------

Pursuant to call of The Rector a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at 11:00 o'clock A.M., on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President at the University, for the following purposes.

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building, to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Cahpter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constitution Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenence thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, as amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice, will you please date and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, and return the duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, to me so that it will reach me not later than the 30th instant?

"EXHIBIT B"
-----------

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 A.M., at the office of the President, at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and to the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof.

Dated at\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this\_\_\_\_\_day of September, 1936.

"Subject to the Rules and Regulations (PWA From No. 179, as amended to date) which are made a part hereof, the United States of America hereby offers to aid in financing the construction of a library building including necessary equipment, but not including the purchase of any library books (herein called the \`Project') by making a grant to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in the amount of 45 percent of the cost of the Project upon completion, as determined by the Federal Emergency administrator of Public Works, but not to exceed, in any event, the sum of $427,909.

GOVERNOR'S CERTIFICATE
----------------------

I, GEORGE C. PEERY, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, hereby certify that I have examined a Resolution proposed to be adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a special meeting of said Board, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President, at the University, and which Resolution is entitled.-

"A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE OFFER OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNITERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO AID, BY WAY OF GRANT, IN FINANCING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A LIBRARY BUILDING, INCLUDING NECESSARY EQUIPMENT, TO HOUSE THE GENERAL LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY".

I do hereby approve said Resolution and the contract of agreement between the United States of America and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which will be created by the adoption of said Resolution.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand this 30th day of September, 1936.

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 o'clock A.M., at the office of the President of the University, for the following purposes:

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assemble of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and recepts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said Building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof?

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

Royal Orchard,

Afton, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart

Abingdon, Virginia

Mr. James H. Corbitt

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams

American Nat. Bank Bldg.

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams

Winchester, Virginia

Mr. C. B. Garnett

Tower Building

14th & K. Sts., N. W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Virginia

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Building

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Virginia

Mrs. M. C. B. Munford

329 N. Harrison Street

Richmond, Virginia.

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution, the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached, marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors three days before the date of meeting therein referred to, by depositing on September 28th, 1936, a copy thereof, in the United States mails, in a securely sealed envelope, postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears of the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz.

(3) That prior to the date of the meeting refered to in said notice, acknowledgements of receipt of said notice, and waivers of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached, marked "Exhibit B", and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

"EXHIBIT A"
-----------

Pursuant to call of The Rector a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at 11:00 o'clock A.M., on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President at the University, for the following purposes.

(a) To consider acceptance of an offer of the United States of America to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to aid, by way of grant, in financing the construction of a Library building, including necessary equipment, to house the general library of the University.

(b) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as the "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, said interest to be paid semi-annually, said bonds to be dated as of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, and to be payable serially over a period of thirty years, the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building, to house the general library of the University of Virginia, and to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(c) In accordance with Cahpter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constitution Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the Project, for the erection of of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued, and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenence thereof, and generally to do any and all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, as amended as aforesaid.

(d) To authorize the erection and equipping of said new Library Building, and to give to the proper officers the necessary authority to advertise for bids therefor, and execute a contract or contracts for the erection of said building and equipping the same.

(e) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(f) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice, will you please date and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, and return the duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, to me so that it will reach me not later than the 30th instant?

"EXHIBIT B"
-----------

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at 11:00 A.M., at the office of the President, at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and to the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof.

Dated at\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this\_\_\_\_\_day of September, 1936.

"Subject to the Rules and Regulations (PWA From No. 179, as amended to date) which are made a part hereof, the United States of America hereby offers to aid in financing the construction of a library building including necessary equipment, but not including the purchase of any library books (herein called the \`Project') by making a grant to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in the amount of 45 percent of the cost of the Project upon completion, as determined by the Federal Emergency administrator of Public Works, but not to exceed, in any event, the sum of $427,909.

GOVERNOR'S CERTIFICATE
----------------------

I, GEORGE C. PEERY, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, hereby certify that I have examined a Resolution proposed to be adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a special meeting of said Board, which is to be held on Thursday, October 1st, 1936, at the office of the President, at the University, and which Resolution is entitled.-

"A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE OFFER OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNITERSITY OF VIRGINIA TO AID, BY WAY OF GRANT, IN FINANCING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A LIBRARY BUILDING, INCLUDING NECESSARY EQUIPMENT, TO HOUSE THE GENERAL LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY".

I do hereby approve said Resolution and the contract of agreement between the United States of America and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia which will be created by the adoption of said Resolution.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand this 30th day of September, 1936.
