---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1937'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1937) January 16, 1937
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 16, 1937

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

13 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

"EXHIBIT A""EXHIBIT B"UNITED STATES OF AMERICA$523,000.00 LIBRARY REVENUE BONDS OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIAGifts:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

909 West Franklin St.,

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart,

Abingdon, Virginia.

Mr. James H. Corbitt,

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams,

American National Bank Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams,

Winchester, Virginia.

Mr. C. B. Garnett,

Tower Building

14th & K Sts., N.W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Va.

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Va.

Mrs. M.C.B. Munford

329 N. Harrison St.

Richmond, Va.

Nov. 11, 1936

G. G. Waugh Company Culpeper, Va.

GENERAL EXCAVATION

$6,250

Nov. 24, 1936

G. G. Waugh Company Culpeper, Va.

FOUNDATION

14,475

Jan. 15, 1937

By Resolution of the New Building Committee of the Board the Public Works Administration was requested to make the following award of contracts.

Doyle & Russell

GENERAL BUILDING

586,223

Richmond, Va.

Reliance Engineering Co.

HEATING

35,553

Charlotte, N. C.

Williams Company,

PLUMBING

22,868

Norfolk, Va.

L. T. Washington

ELECTRIC WORK

19,500

Washington, D. C.

Total

684,869

G. G. Waugh Company, Culpeper, Va.,

$14,475.00

Fox Brothers, Greenwood, Va.

15,740.00

F. L. Showalter, Inc., Lynchburg, Va.

16,400.00

Hall & Mitchell, Keswick, Va.

17,250.00

Wm. Muirhead Construction Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

21,480.00

Doyle and Russell, of Richmond, Va., Schedule "C"

$486,223.00

Reliance Engineering Co., Charlotte, N. C., Heating

35,553.00

L. T. Washington, of Washington, D. C. Electrical work

19,500.00

Williams Company, Norfolk, Va., plumbing

22,868.00

Total

$664,144.00

Doyle & Russell of Richmond, Virginia.

The Building, Schedule D.

$586,223.00

The Reliance Engineering Company of Charlotte, North Carolina.

Heating Contract, Schedule F.

35,553.00

The Williams Company of Norfolk, Virginia.

Plumbing contract, Schedule E.

22,868.00

L. T. Washington of Washington, D. C.

Electrical contract, Schedule G.

19,500.00

DATE OF REGISTRATION

NAME OF REGISTERED HOLDER

TREASURER

From the General Education Board, for the salary of Dr. James Hart, Professor of Political Science, for the nine months' period beginning September 15, 1937

$4,500

From the General Education Board, for the Mountain Lake Biological Station, session 1937-38

2,600

(For maintenance

$2000

For scholarships

$600)

From the Estate of Mrs. Laura Carter Stitt, in full of legacy left the University by Mrs. Stitt

2,500

From Mr. Paul G. McIntire, jewelry, embroidery, etc., for Museum.

From Lord and Lady Astor for two combined Squash and Handball courts

8,000

Pursuant to call of the Rector, a Special Meeting of the board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held at the office of the President at the University, at 11:00 o'clock A.M. on Saturday, January 16th, 1937.

Present: Messrs. Scott, Corbitt, Rinehart, Lewis Williams, Garnett, Gray Williams, Stuart, and Mrs. Munford.

Absent: Messrs, Hall and Goolrick.

The meeting was called to order by Mr. Frederic W. Scott, the Rector.

The President then made the following statement.

That since the meeting of this Board held on June 26th, 1936, a series of conditions have arisen which have necessitated radical changes in the method of financing the new Library project, and that in order to clarify the record he deemed it wise to include in the minutes of this meeting a concise statement of these conditions and of the steps heretofore taken to meet each situation as it has arisen.

When the building of the new Library was first proposed and investigation made as to what funds might be available from the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works, we were informed that while the Federal Government had funds available for a grant, no funds were available for a loan, and that we would therefore have to sell our bonds to some purchaser other than the Federal Government.

A meeting of this Board was held on June 26th, 1936, at which meeting there was presented an offer of Wilmington Trust Company to purchase $400,000.00 of said vonds, and an offer of Scott & Stringfellow to purchase $123,000.00 of bonds, these two offers taking care of the total of $523,000.00 of bonds which it was deemed necessary to issue to supplement a grant of $427,909.00, which we had reason to believe might be obtained from the Public Works Administration. The offer of Wilmington Trust Company to purchase said bonds was conditioned, however, upon the Library Building being finished before its purchase of the bonds was consummated. This necessitated some form of temporary financing during construction, and in order to meet this situation a resolution was adopted at said meeting of June 26th, 1936, authorizing the Finance Committee to pay over to the Bursar for the use of the Building Committee from the unrestricted funds of the University the sum of $523,000.00, or so much thereof as might be necessary to be used for this purpose. And at said meeting a further resolution was adopted accepting the offers of Wilmington Trust Company and of Scott & Stringfellow to purchase said bonds in accordance with their respective offers.

Under date of September 22nd, 1936, the rederal Emergency Administration of Public Works advised us that our application for a grant of $427,909.00 had been approved, and on October 1st, 1936, a special meeting of this Board was held, at which meeting a Resolution was adopted accepting said grant and agreeing to abide by all the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public works with referance thereto. The attention of the meeting was then called to the question of the issue of bonds aggregating $523,000.00, and it appearing to the meeting that since all of the data necessary for the proper determination of the form of said bonds and the terms and conditions under which they were to be issued, secured and sold had not been agreed upon by the Board and the prospective purchasers of the bonds, the meeting was adjourned to Friday, October 23rd, 1936, wo that in the meanwhile all of these details might be discussed and agreed upon.

Conversations were then held with Wilmington Trust Company and Scott & Stringfellow, whose offers to purchase said bonds were before the Board, and at the adjourned meeting of this Board, held on Friday, October 23rd, 1936, a resolution wd adopted— "Authorizing the issuance of University of Virginia Library has in the aggregate principal amount of $523,000.00, determining the form thereof and the terms and conditions under which said bonds are to be issued and secured".

And at this meeting the offer of Wilmington Trust Company to purchase $400,000.00 of these bonds, and the offer of Scott & Stringfellow to purchase $123,000.00 of these bonds were again submitted and a Resolution was adopted accepting each of these offers of purchase, and providing for the execution, award and delivery of said bonds. Since each of waid offers was conditioned upon the bonds—" being in form and substance acceptable to Counsel" for the purchasers, the whole record of our procequre, including the text of the Act (Chapter 49 of the Extra Session of the Virginia Legislature of 1933, as amended) was submitted to Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow, Attorneys of New York, which firm had been designated by Wilmington Trust Company and Scott & Stringfellow as the Attorneys whom they wished to pass upon the validity of said bonds.

Under date of November 16th, 1936, Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow rendered an opinion in which they held that while bonds issued under the provisions of said Chapter 40 of the Extra Session of 1933 were valid and binding obligations if sold to the Federal Government, they were not valid obligations if purchased by an individual or instrumentality other than the Federal Government, since in their opinion the terms of the Act and more particularly the terms of the title to the Act were not broad enough to authorize the issue of bonds to be sold to anyone except to the Federal Government. As we were aware of the possibility of this unfavorable opinion being rendered, the question of its effect upon the sale of the bonds had been discussed at the afjourned meeting of October 23rd, and at that meeting a Resolution was adopted authorizing the Rector, if necessary, to direst the Attorney for the University to take such stops as might be necessary to test the sufficiency of the Act in a Court of competent jurisdiction.

Upon actual receipt of this unfavorable opinion, however, and with the knowledge that the effect of said opinion was to release the Wilmington Trust Company and Scott & Stringfellow from their offers to purchase the bonds, and realizing the loss of time, expense and inconvenience that would result from Court procedure, it was determined to request the Public Works Administration to reconsider the question of its purchase of these bonds. A conference was therefore held with representatives of the Administration in Washington, and we were assured that if application were made to the Administration for the sale of our bonds to it such application would be given prompt and favorable consideration.

This conference was held November 18th, 1936, and on November 24th, 1936, application for loan of $523,000.00 was made to the Public Works Administration

Pending action by the Administration on this application an Extra Session of the Virginia Legislature was called by Governor Geo. C. Peery. We immediately requested Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow to prepare such an amendment to Chapter 49 of the Extra Session of 1933 as, in their opinion, might meet the objections raised by them to the existing Act. This amendment was promptly prepared and on December 9th, 1936, it was presented to Governor Peery, with the request that he include this amendment among the Special Acts to be recommended by him to the Legislature for passage. The act was passed by the Legislature and was approved by the Governor on December 24th, 1936.

Furthermore, the Legislature also adopted an amendment to Section 72 of the Tax Code, by which amendment bonds of this character were made exempt from the Virginia intangible property tax.

On December 18th, 1936, we were advised by the Public Works Administration that our application for a loan had been approved and that the Administration was ready to purchase the $523,000.00 of 4% bonds at par.

Since all legal objections to the purchase of these bonds by others than the Federal Government had been removed by the amendment to the original Act, the question at once arose as to whether or not we were still under obligation, total if of legal, to sell these bonds to Wilmington Trust Company and to Scott & Stringfellow, in accordance with theri original offers in spite of the fact that the character of the bonds had been materially changed by reason of the amendment to Section 72 of the Tax Code and the resulting exemption of said bonds from intangible personal property tax in Virginia. The situation was therefore presented to Wilmington must Company and to Scott & Stringfellow, and their representatives at once advised us that they did not feel we were under obligation of any kind to either of them.

Furthermore, we were advised by the Public Works Administration that if we did not desire to sell the bonds to the Administration at par in accordance with their approval of our application for the loan, we might offer them publicly or privately and sell them at the best price obtainable, but that the Administration would still stand ready to take the whole issue.

An informal meeting of this Board was then held on Monday, December 21st, 1936, at the residence of the Rector, in Richmond, the following members of the Board being present

Messrs. Scott, Corbitt, Cray Williams, he is Williams, Garnett, Stuart and Mrs. Munford.

All of the facts heretofore set out in detail were reviewed at said meeting. After a full discussion of the situation it was agreed.

(1) That all questions as to the form of the bonds, whether a provision permitting redemption prior to maturity should be inserted in them, and all other questions relating to the terms thereof, be referred to the Finance Committee and the Attorneys,

(2) That with the approval of the Governor first obtained the bonds be advertised for sale,

(3) That a meeting of this Board be held in the President's Office at the University at 11:00 A.M. on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, at which meeting proper resolutions will be adopted looking toward the issue of the bonds,

(4) That Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow, bond attorneys of New York, be retained and requested to give an opinion upon the validity of the bonds to be issued.

Pursuant, therefore, to the understanding had at the informal meeting of Monday, December 21st, 1936, this present meeting is being held upon formal call of the Rector and due notice thereof to each member of the Board, as the purposes of this meeting are specifically enumerated in said call of the Rector it is now in order, with this explanation before us, to proceed with the reacting of the call of this meeting and with the matters presented thereby.

The President's statement being thus concluded, the Secretary of the Board proceeded to read the call of the meeting, which is as follows

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitor of the University of Virginia to be held in the President's Office at the University at eleven (11) A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes

(1) To repeal and annul a resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1956, entitled "RESOLUTION NO. 2— AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA and BONDS IN THE AGGRAGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED".

(2) To condiser, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 193, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March, 6th, 1936, and constituting chapter 12, of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly from the project for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof.

The Secretary of the Board, then submitted to the meeting an affidavit of notice of said meeting. Said affidavit and exhibits attached thereto were in the following form.

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia,

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors seven days before the date of meeting therein referred to by depositing on January 9th, 1937, a copy thereof in the United States Mails, in a securely sealed envelope postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears on the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz:

(3) That prior to date of the meeting referred to in old notice, acknowledgement of receipt of said notice and waiver of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached marked "Exhibit B" and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

Pursuant to call of the Rector, dated January 1937, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at the office of the President at the University at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes:

(1) To repeal and annul a Resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1936, entitled. "RESOLUTION NO. 2—AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE IULD AND SECURED".

(2) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more then $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erevting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the project for the creation of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice please date, and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, so that it will reach me not later than the 21st instant.

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., at the Office of the President at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof,

Signed and dated at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this \_\_\_\_\_ day of January, 1937.

The Rector directed that a copy of call of this meeting and said affidavit, together with the acknowledgments of notice and waivers o notice, signed by each and every member of the Board of Visitors, be filed with the minutes of this meeting.

After a general discussion of the whole situation thus presented, the following Resolution was offered by Mr. Lewis Williams, seconded by Mr. Rart and was adopted by the unanimous vote of all members present.

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia—

That the following Resolution heretofore adopted by this Board be, and is hereby rescinded, annulled and rendered inoperative and void.

A resolution adopted by this Board at its adjourned meeting held October 23rd, 1936, entitled: RESOLUTION NO. 2- AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED", said Resolution consisting of the title just quoted, and sections 1 to 11, inclusive.

The President then stated the situation is own as follows

1st. Our application for a grant of $427,909.00 from the Federal Government has been approved, and by Resolution of this Board, adopted at its meeting of October 1st, 1936, we have agreed to abide by all the rules and regulations relating to such grant (PWA Form No. 179 July 22nd, 1935, as amended to date) which rules and regulations were made a part of the Government's offer. And that this Resolution and the contract which, by its adoption, was created between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the United States of America, were approved by the Governor of Virginia, September 30th, 1936.

2nd. By a Resolution of this Board, adopted by the adjourned Special Meeting Held October 23rd, 1936, construction of a new Library building was authorized, and in said Resolution instructions and authority were given as to advertising for bids thereon, awarding of the contract or contracts for the performance of the work, and the execution and delivery thereof.

That pursuant ther to, and after due advertisement, the following contracts have been awarded:

The New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors met on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of the President of the University to receive bids, in accordance with their advertisement therefor, for construction of the foundation of the New Library Building.

There were present Hollis Rinehart, chn, and Levis C. Williams, Fred W. Scott, Rector, President Newcomb and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary. There were also present T. H. Tellier, Special Agent of PWA, Fleming R. Hurt, Jr., Acting State Director PWA in Richmond, E. B. Hazelgrove, Resident Engineer, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't Buildings & Grounds, and the various bidding contracts.

The following bids were received:

Following the reading of the bids, the contractors were excused and the Committee proceeded to consider them together with the conditions making necessary the calling for second bidding on the foundation. The following motion, offered by Mr. Williams, seconded by Mr. Scott, was adopted:

On November 11, 1936, Mr. Rinehart, called the attention of the President to the provisions of Section 4706 of the Code of Virginia, and also to the fact which had been mentioned by him at the meeting on November 10, that he was a stockholder in the Barnes Lumber Co., Mr. Rinehart further stated that he had requested this Corporation to withdraw its bid for the foundation of the new Library and said Corporation did withdraw its said bid.

The situation was submitted to the Public Works Administration and a letter upon the subject, dated November 12, 1936, and another letter dated November 13, 1936, was addressed by the Administration to the President. Copies of these letters are filed herewith as a part of the minutes of this meeting.

After a discussion of this situation it was thereupon

RESOLVED, that the action of this Committee taken November 10, 1936, awarding contract for the foundation to the Barnes Lumber Corporation be and is hereby rescinded.

Upon receipt of the letter of November 12, from the Public Works Administration above referred to, readvertisement for bids was made on November 14th and upon presentation to this meeting of bids from six (6) different firms it was thereupon resolvwd as follows:

THAT THIS COMMITTEE hereby recommends to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works that said Administration approve the bid of the G. G. Waugh Company, of Culpeper, Va., whose bid of $14,475.00 for said work was the lowest bid received.

The meeting then adjourned.

The New Buildings Committee met at the Office of President Newcomb on this date at 11 o'clock, A. M., to receive and open the bids on the new Library Building pursuant to advertisement therefor.

There were present, The Rector, Hollis Rinehart, charn, and Lewis C. Williams, representing the New Buildings Committee, President Newcomb, L. Taylor and John K. Peebles, Jr., architects, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't of Buildings and Grounds, and A. Brockenbrough, Jr., representing the State Office of the Public Works Administration

By reason of the large number of persons present representing the bidders the meeting was adjourned to Room 6, Monroe Hall where the bids were opened and considered.

Ten bids were submitted for general contract and fifteen for heating, electrical work and plumbing.

The following were found to be the lowest bidders and were tentatively awarded the respective contracts, subject to approval of the Board of Visitors and the Divisional Administrator of Public Works Administration

The following resolution was approved:

RESOLVED, by the New Buildings Committee of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Public Works Administration be requested to award the following contracts to the following corporations or indivisuals, each being the low bidder in the respective field.

It therefore appears that all necessary preliminary steps have been taken with the single exception of fixing the terms and authorizing the preparation, execution, sale and delivery of the bonds now to be issued in place of those previously authorized.

The following resolution was thereupon offered by Mr. Lewis C. Williams, seconded by Mr. Rinehart:

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY REVENUE BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL MOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETLRMINING THE FORM THEREOF, AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED.

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia as follows:

Section 1. Bonds of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, (hereinafter referred to as the "Institution"), each to be known as "Library Revenue Hond" are hereby authorized to be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $523,000.00, pursuant to provisions of the Constitution of Virginia and an Act of the General Assembly of Virginia, entitled: "An Act to authorize and empower edicational institutions of the State to erect buildings and to make other improvements to their plants and for such purpose to borrow or accept money under the provisions of an Act of the Congress of the United States, known as the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 18 1933, and any Acts amendatory thereof and any Acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further Act of the Congress of the United States, and to issue bonds and certificates of indebtedness and other obligations; to provide funds for the payment of the principal of and the interest on the same and to secure such payment, and to authorize and empower said institutions to lease with or without the privilege of purchase buildings and projects constructed pursuant to the provisions of said National Industrial Recovery Act and any Acts amendatory thereof and any Acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to acquire and convey such real estate or other property as shall be required for such buildings and projects", approved September 12th, 1933, constituting Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly passed at the Extra Session of 1933 as amended by an Act of the General Assembly, approved March 6th, 1936, constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia of 1936, and as further amended by an Act of said General Assembly of Virginia passed at the Extra Session of 1936, approved December 24th, 1936, for the purpose of financing the construction and equipment of a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, as provided in Section 3 hereof.

Section 2. Said bonds shall be dated February 1st, 1937, shall bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding 4% per annum, as may be determined by resolution, payable on the first day of August 1937, and semi-annually thereafter on the first days of February and August in each year until maturity, shall be in denomination of $1000.00 each, numbered from to 523, inclusive, in order of maturity, shall be coupon in form, registerable at the option of the holder as to principal only at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, shall be payable only out of the funds hereinafter in this Resolution provided, shall be payable at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, in any coin or currency which is, on the respective dates of payment of interest on and principal of such bonds, legal tender for the payment of public or private debts, and shall mature in the principal amount of $6000.00 on August 1st, 1938, $6000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1939 to 1942, both inclusive, $6000.00 on February 1st, 1943; $8000.00 on August 1st, 1943, $8000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1944 to 1948, both inclusive, $8000.00 on February 1st, 1949, $9000.00 on August 1st, 1949; $9000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1950 to 1955, both inclusive, $10,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1956 to 1967, both inclusive, and $10,000.00 on February 1st, 1968. Said bonds shall be substantially in the following form:

NUMBER

$1000.00

NUMBER

$1000.00

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

LIBRARY REVENUE BOND

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a State Institution in the Commonwealth of Virginia, for value received, promises to pay to the Bearer of this bond, or, if it be registered, to the registered holder, solely from the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account hereinafter mentioned (hereinafter called the "Sinking Fund"), and not otherwise, the sun of

\_\_\_\_ ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS \_\_\_\_

($1000.00) on the first day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_, and solely from said Sinking Fund and not otherwise, to pay interest thereon at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_ per centum(%) per annum, on the first day of August, 1937, and semi-annuall, thereafter on the first days of February and August in each year from the date of this bond until it matures, upon presentation and surrender as they severally mature of the coupons therefor annexed hereto. Subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove provided, both principal of and interest on this bond will be paid in any coin of currency which, on the respective dates of payment of the principal of and interest on this bond, is legal tender for the payment of public or private debts, at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the City of Richmond, Virginia.

This bond may be registered at the option of the holder, as to principal only, on the book kept for that purpose in the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, in accordance with the provisions endorsed on the back hereof.

This bond is one of an issue, the authorized principal amount of which is Five Hundred and Twenty-three Thousand Dollars, ($523,000.00), the bonds of which are of like tenor, except as to the numbers and maturity, and is issued pursuant to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and an Act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, entitled "An Act to authorize and empower educational institutions of the State to erect buildings and to make other improvements to their plants and for such purpose to borrow or accept money under the provisions of an act of the Congress of the United States, known as the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to issue bonds and certificates of indebtedness and other obligations, to provide funds for the payment of the principal of and the interest on the same and to secure such payments, and to authorize and empower said institutions to lease with or without the privilege of purchase buildings and projects constructed pursuant to the provisions of said National Industrial Recovery Act and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to acquire and convey such real estate or other property as shall be required for such buildings and projects", approved September 12th, 1933, constituting Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of the General Assembly, approved March 6th, 1936, constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia of 1936, an as further amended by an act of said General Assembly of Virginia passed at the Extra Session of 1936, approved December 24th, 1936, and by virtue of a Resolution of the Board of Visitors of said Institution entitled. —"Resolution authorizing the issuance of University of Virginia Library Revenue Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $523,000.00, determining the form thereof, and the terms and conditions under which said bonds are to be issued and secured", duly and finally adopted on January 16th, 1937 and approved by the Governor of the Commonwealth on the \_\_\_\_\_day of January, 1937.

The issue of bonds of which this bond is one is authorized for the purpose of financing the construction and equipment of a new Library Building (hereinafter called the "Project") to house the general library of the Institution. It is hereby convenanted and agreed that the Institution, upon the completion of said project and acceptance thereof will charge and collect for or in connection with the use, facilities or services of the project and replacements thereof, or services rendered therein, such fees and charges as the Board of Visitors of the Institution shall deem proper so that the project shall always have sufficient receipts and revenues, determined as provided by sub-section (e) of Section 6 the ct first above cited, to provide for the payment of all expenses of operation and tenance of the project, as defined in said resolution, in addition to the discharge, in due course, of any liabilities or debts of the institution incurred in connection with the project, including the principal of and interest on the bonds of the issue of which this bond is one, and that a part of any such fees and charges so collected, sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as such principal and interest respectively become due, will annually be set aside in the said Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account in the manner and to the extent provided in said resolution. Said Sinking Fund is hereby irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as they severally become due, and the institution shall not be liable to make such payment out of any other fund or moneys whatsoever.

In the event of default as defined in Section Seven of said Act, the holders of twenty-five per centum (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the bonds then outstanding of the issue of which this bond is one, may appoint a Trustee and the principal of all the bonds may be declared due and payable before the maturity thereof and a Receiver may be appointed on the conditions, in the at the time and with the provided in Section Seven of said Act. Said bonds shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and shall not create of constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise. Neither the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, nor the members of the Board of Visitors of the Institution, nor any person executing said bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds, or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof.

It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution and Statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia to exist, to have happened, and to have been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond exist, have happened and have been performed, and this bond does not constitute an indebtedness withing the constitutional or general statutory limitations of the Commonwealth, or any public body.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused this bond to be signed in its name by its Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary of its Board of Visitors, and the interest coupons hereto attached to be authenticated by the facsimile signature of its Bursar, and this bond to be dated the first day of February, 1937.

FORM OF COUPON

Subject to the terms and conditions expressed in the bond hereinafter mentioned, THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA will, upon surrender hereof, pay to Bearer on the first day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_, the sum of            Dollars ($            ), in any coin or currency which on said date is legal tender for payment of public or private debts, at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the City of Richmond Virginia, being six (6) months' interest then due on its Library Revenue Bond, dated February 1, 1937, and bearing No. \_\_\_\_\_.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Bursar.

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION

I hereby certify that upon the written request of the holder, the within bond was this day registered in the name of the first registered holder indicated below, on the book kept in the office of the Treasirer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, and is transferable only upon said books upon presentation to the said Treasurer of Virginia, with written assignment duly acknowledged or proved, at which time the name of the assignee shall be entered thereon and in said book by said Treasurer, and is payable to the registered holder, assignee, successor of legal representative, at the time and place stated in the bond. This bond may be discharged from registration by being in like manner transferred to bearer, after which transferability by delivery shall be restored, but it may, from time to time, agaij be registered or transferred to bearer as before. No such registration shall affect the negotiability of the coupons which shall continue to pass by delivery.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_day on \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

PANEL ON BACK OF BOND:

NUMBER

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

LIBRARY REVENUE BOND

$1,000.00

PRINCIPAL DUE

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_1, 19\_\_

INTEREST DUE FEBRUARY 1 and AUGUST 1

Principal and interest payable at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the City of Richmond, Virginia.

Section 3. The proceeds derived from the sale of said bonds, and the funds to be received from the United States of America pursuant to its offer dated September 22, 1936, accepted by resolution adopted October 1, 1936, shall be used for and are hereby appropriated to the purpose of paying the cost of construction and equipment of a new Library Building (hereinafter called the "project") to house the general library of the University of Virginia, in accordance with the plans and specifications prepared by Messrs. Taylor & Fisher of Baltimore, Maryland, approved by the State Art Commission and heretofore filed with the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works and any amendments and revisions thereof. Such cost of construction and equipment of the project shall include, without limitation, any engineering or inspection costs or legal or accounting expenses incurred by the institution in connection with the project interest payable or accruing during the period of construction, and the cost of issuance of said bonds, including printing, engraving, advertising, legal and other similar expenses. The proceeds realized from the sale of said bonds shall be applied to the foregoing purposes and no others, except that any excess of such procedds remaining over and above the amount which proves to be necessary for such purposes shall be paid into the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account hereinafter in section 6 provided. It is hereby determined that the construction and equipment of such project as hereinabove described is a purpose for which bonds may lawfully be issued under the provisions of the act hereinabove referred to. The institution shall construct and shall continue the construction of the project to completion with all practicable dispatch and in a sound and economical manner.

Section 4. Said bonds shall be limited obligations of the institution, payable only from the revenues and receipts of the project, and secured by a first and exclusive pledge of the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account, as hereinafter in this resolution provided.

Section 5. The institution shall during the term of said bonds fix and collect fees and charges for the use and facilities of the project so that the revenues and re-receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the project shall be sufficient at all times to provide the sums required by section 6 of this resolution to be set aside and paid into, the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account, and to pay the cost of operation and maintenance of the project as herein defined. Pursuant to said Acts, it is hereby determined that:

(a) The revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the project are fees and charges, in the nature of Library Fees, for the use, services and facilities of the project from and after the completion of the same, which shall be charged to and collected from all students of the institution, and any others making use of the project, but shall not include any funds received or receivable from the Commonwealth of Virginia.

(b) The costs and expenses of the operation and maintenence of the project are the reasonable expenses of the institution (in so far as they constitute new or added expenses of the institution) for the operation and maintenance of the project from and after the completion of the same, including, without limiting the generality of the ofregoing, charges for heating, lighting, power, janitor service, water, telephone, supplies (not including books, periodicals, magazines and other forms of reading materials) maintenance, repairs, and insurance (but not including salaries of the Executive Staff).

Section 6. The institution shall set aside as collected and deposit a portion of the revenues and receipts aforesaid in a "Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account" (hereinreferred to as the "Sinking Fund"), to the extent only as hereinafter in this section provided. So long as any of said bonds shall remain outstanding the money in the Sinking Fund shall be exclusively pledged to and shall be used solely for the purpose of paying the interest on and the principal of such bonds as the same become due. During each period of six months beginning six months prior to the date of the first maturity of said bonds and continuing up to and inccluding the period of six months beginning February 1, 1942, there shall be so set aside and paid into said Sinking Fund out of the revenues and receipts aforesaid an amount equal to 110 per centum of the amount required to pay all interest on and principal of the bonds falling due on or before the next date when any of the bonds nature. The amount by which such payments into the Sinking Fund exceed the aggregate amount of interest and principal falling due on or before the several dates shall be held in the Sinking Fund as a reserve for contingencies and shall be used only in accordance with the provisions of this section. During each period of six months beginning, August 1, 1942, and continuing so long as any of said bonds shall remain outstanding, there shall be so set aside and paid into such Sinking Fund our of said revenues and receipts and amount equal to the amount required to pay all interest on and principal of the bonds falling due on or before the next date when any of the bonds mature; provided, however, that no further payments need be made into said Sinking Fund when the amount of money held in said Sinking Fudn (including the reserve for contingencies) equals the amount of interest on and principal of the bonds that will be payable at the time of the maturity of all the bonds then outstanding. If, in any such period of six months, the institution shall fail to pay into the Sinking Fund the full amount hereinabove stipulated, then an amount equal to the amount of such deficiency shall be set aside and paid into the Sinking Fund our of the first such revenues or receipts available in the following period of six months, without, however, abating the amount required hereunder in such following period. If the institution shall fail to make such payment into the Sinking Fund, as aforesaid, during any such period, any funds then held in the Sinking Fund as a reserve for contingencies as above provided shall be used for the payment of any portion of the interest on or principal of the bonds on which there would otherwise be a default, but the amount by which such reserve is so reduced by such payment shall be replaced from the first such revenues or receipts available in the following period or periods, in excess of the required payment for the then current period.

Section 7. The institution shall keep complete and accurate accounts of all sums of money received and disbursed in connection with the construction, equipping, operation and maintenance of the project, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a complete and accurate record of all fees or charges charged or collected, and all sums disbursed for payment of the interest on and principal of said bonds. Within sixty days after the close of each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year which closes June 30, 1938, the institution shall prepare and furnish to the holder or holders of any of said bonds who may request the same, complete operating and income statements of the project, covering the preceding fiscal year in reasonable detail and certified by the Bursar of the University Such operation and income statements shall be certified by an independent auditor (at the expense of the Institution) if demand for such independent audit be made by the holder or holders of twenty per centum (20%) of the bonds at any time outstanding.

Section 8. So long as any of said bonds remain upoaid, the Institution shall maintain the project in good condition and operate the same in an efficient manner and at a reasonable cost, and shall maintain insurance upon said New Library Building of a kind and in an amount which usually would be carried by a private corporation operating a similar project, the policies of insurance to be made payable to "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia". The proceeds of any such insurance in event of loss shall be used only for— (a) replacements of or repairs to the project; or, at the option of the Institution, (b) payments into the Sinking Fund. Nothing in this section shall be construed or operate as requiring the Institution to pay the costs of operation and maintenance of the project out of any other funds than the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from the project.

Section 9. So long as any of said bonds shall remain unpaid, the Institution shall not issue any additional bonds of any other authorized issue or other evidences of indebtedness payable from the revenues and receipts of said project, nor shall the Institution voluntarily create or cause to be created any debt, lien or charge payable from such revenees and receipts, nor shall the Institution sell, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of or encumber the project.

Section 10. The holders of said bonds are, and shall be, entitled to all the beneof and shall be subject to all of the provisions of Section 7 of the first Act referred to in Section 1 of this Resolution, and any Trustee appointed by the holders of the bonds, pursuant to said Section 7 of said Act shall have the powers provided by subdivision () of said Section 7 of said Act.

Section 11. The provisions of Sections 3 to 10, both inclusive, of this Resolution shall be a part of the contract with the holder or holeder of said bonds, and the President or Bursar, or other executive or financial officers of the Institution, shall be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to do any and all things necessary, proper or convenient in order to fully carry out and perform the agreements on the part of the Institution to be carried out and performed pursuant to said Sections.

Section 12. Neither the present or any future members of this board nor any person executing said bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof. The bonds shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia or payable out of any funds of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Section 13. Proposals for the purchase of said bonds shall be received on Friday, January 29, 1937 at 11:00 A. M. at the office of the President in Charlottesville, and the Secretary of the Board of Visitors is hereby authorized to cause a notice of sale of said bonds to be published at least once at least five days prior to said date in the "Richmond Times Dispatch" and "News Leader" and in "The Daily Bond Bujer". Said notice of sale shall be substantially in the following form.

NOTICE OF SALE

Sealed proposals will be received by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, on January 29th, 1937, at eleven o'clock A. M., in the Office of the President, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, for the purchase of $523,000.00 Library Revenue Bonds of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, authorized pursuant to Chapter 49 of the Acts of the Extra Session of 1933, of the General Assembly of Virginia, as amended, and by virtue of a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted January 16, 1937, to which act and resolution prospective bidders are hereby referred. The proceeds of said bonds, together with a proposed grant by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works, estimated at approximately $427,909.00, will be applied to financing the cost of the construction and equipment of a new Library Building, (hereinafter referred to as the "project"), to house the general library of the University.

Said bonds will be valid and legally binding limited obligations of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, payable solely from the revenues of the project after providing for the cost of operation and maintenance thereof, and the University will convenant to deposit out of such revenues, in a Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account which will be pledged to the payment of the principal and interest of said bonds, on or before each semi-annual maturity date up to and including February 1, 1942, 110% and on or before each semi-annual maturity date thereafter until the funds in said Account are sufficient to provide for all principal and interest payable on the outstanding bonds, 100% of the principal and interest payable on each such maturity date. The opinion of Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow of New York City to this effect will be furnished to the successful bidder.

The University does not pledge its general credit in any way for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, nor are the bonds in any way a debt or obligation of the Commonwealth of Virginia, either legal, moral or otherwise.

In the opinion of Counsel, the interest on said bonds will be exempt from Federal income tax inder the Constitution of the United States of America now in force.

Said bonds will not be exempt from the income tax of the State of Virginia, However, Section 72 of the Tax Code of Virginia, providing that taxes on incomes, franchises and licenses shall be in lieu of a specific property tax on property defined by said section, was amended by the Extra Session of the Virginia General Assembly of 1936 so as to include therein all bonds thereafter issued by State educational institutions under the provisions of Chapter 49 of the Acts of Assembly of 1933, as amended.

Said bonds will be dated February 1, 1937, and will mature in the principal amount of $6,000.00 on August 1, 1938, $6,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1939 to 1942, boty inclusive, $6,000.00 on February 1, 1943, $8,000.00 on August 1, 1943, $8,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1944 to 1948, both inclusive, $8,000.00 on February 1, 1949, $9,000.00 on August 1, 1949, $9,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1950 to 1955, both inclusive, $10,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1956 to 1967, both inclusive, and $10,000.00 on February 1, 1968.

Said bonds will bear interest at a rate not exceeding four per centum (4%) per annum expressed in a multiple of one-fourth of one per centum per annum, said interest to be payable semi-annually on the first days of February and August in each year. Both principal and interest of said bonds will be payable at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia. The Bonds will be coupon bonds in the denomination of $1000.00 each, with the privilege of registration as to principal only.

The sum required to be obtained at the sale of said bonds is not less than $523,000.00.

Each bidder must state in his proposal the rate of interest which the bonds are to bear, namein a single rate. Comparison of proposals will be made by ascertaining the amount of interest to be paid by the institution throughout the life of the issue at the proposed rate and deducting therefrom the amount of premium bid, if any, thus determining the lowest net interest cost to the institution for the whole issue.

In addition to the amount bid, the purchaser must pay accrued interest at the rate borne by the bonds from the date of the bonds to the date of payment of the purchase price.

THE RIGHT IS RESERVED TO REJECT ANY OR ALL BIDS AND ANY BID NOT COMPLYING WITH THE TERMS OF THIS NOTICE WILL BE REJECTED.

All bidders are required to deposit a certified check, payable to the order of "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", in the amount of $10,000.00. Checks of unsuccessful bidders will be returned upon the award of the bonds. The check of a successful bidder will be retained to be applied in part payment for the bonds or to partially secure the University from any loss resulting from the failure of the bidder to comply with the terms of his bid.

Proposals should be addressed to the President, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, and enclosed in a sealed envelope Marked on the outside, "Proposal for Library Revenue Bonds".

Proposal forms and full information with reference to the terms and conditions under which these bonds will be issued, including a copy of the resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, adopted January 16th, 1937, authorizing said issue of bonds, may be obtained by addressing the undersigned.

And such other advertising may be published as the Finance Committee may direct.

Section 14. Fred. W. Scott, Rector of the Institution, is hereby authorized and empowered to execute said bonds in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of the Board of Visitors, is hereby authorized and empowered to affix the seal of the Institution to each of said bonds, and to attest the same. Said E. I. Carruthers, Bursar, is further authorized and empowered to cause the coupons annexed to said bonds to be authenticated by the facsimile of his signature, as Bursar, and the President or Bursar is hereby authorized and directed to deliver said bonds to the purchasers thereof upon receipt of payment thereofr.

Section 15. Whenever in this Resolution the Institution is named or referred to, it shall be deemed to include the successors or assigns thereof, and all the covenants and agreements in this Resolution contained by or on behalf of the Institution shall, subject to the aforesaid provisions, bind and enure to the benefit of the successors and assigns thereof, whether so expressed or not.

Section 16. If any one or more of the covenants or agreements provided in this Resolution on the part of the Institution to be performed should be contrary to any express provision of law or contrary to the policy of express law though not expressly prohibited or against public policy; then such covenant or covenants, agreement or agreements, shall be null and void and shall be deemed separable from the remaining covenants and agreements and shall not in any way affect the validity of this Resolution on of the bonds.

Section 17. All Resolutions or parts of Resolutions inconsistent herewith but to the extent only of such inconsistency are hereby repealed.

Section 18. This resolution shall be submitted to the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia for his approval and shall take effect immediately upon his approval thereof.

The foregoing resolution was read in full once to said meeting and thereupon, upon motion of Mr. Lewis C. Williams, seconded by Mr. Rinehart, the resolution was adopted by the following vote:

Yeas: Messrs. Scott, Corbitt, Stuart, Rinehart, Lewis C. Williams, Garnett, R. Gray Williams, and Mrs. Munford.

Nays: None

The President made the following announcements:

Enrollment to date 2564

Upon the recommendation of the President the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University that Mr. Homer Zettlet Martin be and he is hereby elected Instructor in Chemical Engineering, beginning January 1, 1937, and continuing to June 15, 1937, at a salary of $250 per month or the five and one-hald months.

The President then presented to the Board a letter from the Wilmington Trust Company, dated December 11, 1936, which letter reads as follows:

On December 27, 1935, we received in the Philip F. duPont Trust No. 1-28-B, 381 45/55 shares General Motors Corporation Common stock as a dividend on 21000 shares duPont Common stock held in that account. The general rule is that dividends of this nature constitute income which is properly distributable to the beneficiaries of a trust. Acting on the theory that the general rule applied in this instance, we communicated with you for advise as to whether you desired to have the General Motors stock distributed to you or whether you preferred having us sell the stock and distribute the proceeds thereform.

On December 20, 1935, you requested that the 45/55th sahre be sold and the proceeds distributed to you and that the remaining e81 shares be transferred to the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. The 381 shares, represented by Certificates Nos. WD14-3/390 for 100 shares each and WC109587 for 81 shares, were delivered in accordance with your instructions on January 9, 1936. On February 29, 1936, we sold the fractional share for $48.66 which amount was included in the payment which we made to the University on April 9, 1936.

Through an error on our part, we entirely overlooked a clause which was incorporated in this trust instrument relating to dividends received in the account. We quote from the instrument as follows

"All dividends received by the said Trustee upon and from any securities constituting a portion of the principal, if payable in cash, shall be considered and shall constitute income, and if payable in stock or other securities, shall not be considered income, but shall constitute a portion of the trust principal and shall be so treated by the said Trustee."

It is evident from this provision of the trust instrument that the General Motors stock and cash proceeds from the sale of the fractional share were distributed to you in error, since such stock and cash constitute a part of the principal of the trust fund. For this reason, we obliged to request that you return to us, either endorsed in blank or with stock powers attached properly signed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the 381 shares of General Motors stock bearing the certificate numbers shown above. Also, that you forward to us your check in the amount of $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55th share which we distributed to you in error.

This request is made on the assumption that the stock has been retained by you. If such stock has been sold, it was technically sold for the account of the principal of this trust fund and it will therefore be necessary that you forward to us your check for the amount of the proceeds of such sale, plus $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55ths of a share which we distributed to you in error. In the event that you have retained the stock the Wilmington Trust Company will, of course, reimburse you for any expenses incurred in the shipment of these securities to us and will likewise absorb the transfer of the securities from the present name back to the name of Wilmington Trust Company Trustee under Agreement with Philip F. duPont.

We regret the inconvenience which you may have experienced by reason of this error. Viewing the matter solely from an income standpoint you, of course, have not suffered because the dividends have been going to you regularly anyhow and there has therefore been no loss of income by reason of the error.

It will be very much appreciated if you will make reply as expeditiously as possible.

After full discussion of this letter, it appeared that the Wilmington Trust Company had through error remitted to the University of Virginia for the Philip R. duPont Fund 381 shares of the Common Stock of the General Motors Corporation, and a check for $48.66 which resulted from the sale of 45/55ths of a share of General Motors Corporation common stock.

It was thereupon resolved that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized and directed to transfer the 381 shares of the common stock of the General Motors Corporation to the Wilmington Trust Company, for the Philip F. duPont Trust, No. 1028-B, and the Bursar be and he is hereby authorized and directed to send a check accompanying this stock in the sum of $48.66, payable to the Wilmington Trust Company for the account of the Philip R. duPont Trust.

The selection of a suitable location for the handball and squash court was referred to the President, Rinehart and Lewis C. Williams to investigate and report.

The President was requested to prepare a resolution with respect to the death of Dr. Thomas Walker Page.

The matter of preparing plans and specifications for the furnishing and equipping of the New Library, was disposed of in the following resolution, adopted:

RESOLVED, that the President be and he is hereby authorized to engage Mr. R. E. Lee Taylor, of the firm of Taylor and Fisher, Architects, Baltimore, Maryland, to prepare any plans and specifications which may be necessary in furnishing and equipping the New Library Building.

The compensation for this service is to be jointly agreed upon by the President and Mr. Taylor, at a sum not to exceed the usual percentage set by the American Institute of Architects, for similar services.

There being no further business the following Resolution was offered, seconded and uannimously adopted:

RESOLVED that this meeting be, and is hereby adjourned until January 29th, 1937, at 12:00 o'clock, Noon, at the President's Office at the University, at which time report will be made by the Finance Committee upon the bids theretofore received for said bonds, and with the approval of the Governor, first obtained, will make such recommendations to this Board as said Committee shall deem proper.

C. Harding Walker Rector.

E. I. Carruthers Secretary.

CERTIFICATE OF GOVERNOR

I, George C. Peery, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, hereby certify that I have examined a Resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a special meeting of said Board which was held on October 23rd, 1936, at the office of the President at the University pursuant to adjournment of a special meeting of said Board held on the 1st day of October, 1936, which Resolution is entitled:

"RESOLUTION NO. 3— AUTHORIZING CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW LIBRARY BUILDING TO HOUSE THE GENERAL LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY AND GRANTING CERTAIN POWERS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH".

I have also enamined a Resolution adopted by said Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at a special meeting of said Board of Visitors held at the office of the President at the University on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, entitled:

"RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY REVENUE BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED".

I do hereby approve each of said Resolutions.

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitor of the University of Virginia to be held in the President's Office at the University at eleven (11) A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes

(1) To repeal and annul a resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1956, entitled "RESOLUTION NO. 2— AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA and BONDS IN THE AGGRAGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED".

(2) To condiser, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 193, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March, 6th, 1936, and constituting chapter 12, of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly from the project for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof.

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

909 West Franklin St.,

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart,

Abingdon, Virginia.

Mr. James H. Corbitt,

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams,

American National Bank Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams,

Winchester, Virginia.

Mr. C. B. Garnett,

Tower Building

14th & K Sts., N.W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Va.

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Va.

Mrs. M.C.B. Munford

329 N. Harrison St.

Richmond, Va.

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia,

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors seven days before the date of meeting therein referred to by depositing on January 9th, 1937, a copy thereof in the United States Mails, in a securely sealed envelope postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears on the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz:

(3) That prior to date of the meeting referred to in old notice, acknowledgement of receipt of said notice and waiver of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached marked "Exhibit B" and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

"EXHIBIT A"
-----------

Pursuant to call of the Rector, dated January 1937, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at the office of the President at the University at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes:

(1) To repeal and annul a Resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1936, entitled. "RESOLUTION NO. 2—AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE IULD AND SECURED".

(2) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more then $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erevting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the project for the creation of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice please date, and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, so that it will reach me not later than the 21st instant.

"EXHIBIT B"
-----------

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., at the Office of the President at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof,

Signed and dated at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this \_\_\_\_\_ day of January, 1937.

G. G. Waugh Company, Culpeper, Va.,

$14,475.00

Fox Brothers, Greenwood, Va.

15,740.00

F. L. Showalter, Inc., Lynchburg, Va.

16,400.00

Hall & Mitchell, Keswick, Va.

17,250.00

Wm. Muirhead Construction Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

21,480.00

The New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors met on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of the President of the University to receive bids, in accordance with their advertisement therefor, for construction of the foundation of the New Library Building.

There were present Hollis Rinehart, chn, and Levis C. Williams, Fred W. Scott, Rector, President Newcomb and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary. There were also present T. H. Tellier, Special Agent of PWA, Fleming R. Hurt, Jr., Acting State Director PWA in Richmond, E. B. Hazelgrove, Resident Engineer, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't Buildings & Grounds, and the various bidding contracts.

The following bids were received:

Following the reading of the bids, the contractors were excused and the Committee proceeded to consider them together with the conditions making necessary the calling for second bidding on the foundation. The following motion, offered by Mr. Williams, seconded by Mr. Scott, was adopted:

On November 11, 1936, Mr. Rinehart, called the attention of the President to the provisions of Section 4706 of the Code of Virginia, and also to the fact which had been mentioned by him at the meeting on November 10, that he was a stockholder in the Barnes Lumber Co., Mr. Rinehart further stated that he had requested this Corporation to withdraw its bid for the foundation of the new Library and said Corporation did withdraw its said bid.

The situation was submitted to the Public Works Administration and a letter upon the subject, dated November 12, 1936, and another letter dated November 13, 1936, was addressed by the Administration to the President. Copies of these letters are filed herewith as a part of the minutes of this meeting.

After a discussion of this situation it was thereupon

RESOLVED, that the action of this Committee taken November 10, 1936, awarding contract for the foundation to the Barnes Lumber Corporation be and is hereby rescinded.

Upon receipt of the letter of November 12, from the Public Works Administration above referred to, readvertisement for bids was made on November 14th and upon presentation to this meeting of bids from six (6) different firms it was thereupon resolvwd as follows:

THAT THIS COMMITTEE hereby recommends to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works that said Administration approve the bid of the G. G. Waugh Company, of Culpeper, Va., whose bid of $14,475.00 for said work was the lowest bid received.

The meeting then adjourned.

Doyle and Russell, of Richmond, Va., Schedule "C"

$486,223.00

Reliance Engineering Co., Charlotte, N. C., Heating

35,553.00

L. T. Washington, of Washington, D. C. Electrical work

19,500.00

Williams Company, Norfolk, Va., plumbing

22,868.00

Total

$664,144.00

Doyle & Russell of Richmond, Virginia.

The Building, Schedule D.

$586,223.00

The Reliance Engineering Company of Charlotte, North Carolina.

Heating Contract, Schedule F.

35,553.00

The Williams Company of Norfolk, Virginia.

Plumbing contract, Schedule E.

22,868.00

L. T. Washington of Washington, D. C.

Electrical contract, Schedule G.

19,500.00

The New Buildings Committee met at the Office of President Newcomb on this date at 11 o'clock, A. M., to receive and open the bids on the new Library Building pursuant to advertisement therefor.

There were present, The Rector, Hollis Rinehart, charn, and Lewis C. Williams, representing the New Buildings Committee, President Newcomb, L. Taylor and John K. Peebles, Jr., architects, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't of Buildings and Grounds, and A. Brockenbrough, Jr., representing the State Office of the Public Works Administration

By reason of the large number of persons present representing the bidders the meeting was adjourned to Room 6, Monroe Hall where the bids were opened and considered.

Ten bids were submitted for general contract and fifteen for heating, electrical work and plumbing.

The following were found to be the lowest bidders and were tentatively awarded the respective contracts, subject to approval of the Board of Visitors and the Divisional Administrator of Public Works Administration

The following resolution was approved:

RESOLVED, by the New Buildings Committee of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Public Works Administration be requested to award the following contracts to the following corporations or indivisuals, each being the low bidder in the respective field.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
------------------------

NUMBER

$1000.00

NUMBER

$1000.00

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

LIBRARY REVENUE BOND

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a State Institution in the Commonwealth of Virginia, for value received, promises to pay to the Bearer of this bond, or, if it be registered, to the registered holder, solely from the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account hereinafter mentioned (hereinafter called the "Sinking Fund"), and not otherwise, the sun of

\_\_\_\_ ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS \_\_\_\_

($1000.00) on the first day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_, and solely from said Sinking Fund and not otherwise, to pay interest thereon at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_ per centum(%) per annum, on the first day of August, 1937, and semi-annuall, thereafter on the first days of February and August in each year from the date of this bond until it matures, upon presentation and surrender as they severally mature of the coupons therefor annexed hereto. Subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove provided, both principal of and interest on this bond will be paid in any coin of currency which, on the respective dates of payment of the principal of and interest on this bond, is legal tender for the payment of public or private debts, at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the City of Richmond, Virginia.

This bond may be registered at the option of the holder, as to principal only, on the book kept for that purpose in the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, in accordance with the provisions endorsed on the back hereof.

This bond is one of an issue, the authorized principal amount of which is Five Hundred and Twenty-three Thousand Dollars, ($523,000.00), the bonds of which are of like tenor, except as to the numbers and maturity, and is issued pursuant to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and an Act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, entitled "An Act to authorize and empower educational institutions of the State to erect buildings and to make other improvements to their plants and for such purpose to borrow or accept money under the provisions of an act of the Congress of the United States, known as the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to issue bonds and certificates of indebtedness and other obligations, to provide funds for the payment of the principal of and the interest on the same and to secure such payments, and to authorize and empower said institutions to lease with or without the privilege of purchase buildings and projects constructed pursuant to the provisions of said National Industrial Recovery Act and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to acquire and convey such real estate or other property as shall be required for such buildings and projects", approved September 12th, 1933, constituting Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of the General Assembly, approved March 6th, 1936, constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia of 1936, an as further amended by an act of said General Assembly of Virginia passed at the Extra Session of 1936, approved December 24th, 1936, and by virtue of a Resolution of the Board of Visitors of said Institution entitled. —"Resolution authorizing the issuance of University of Virginia Library Revenue Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $523,000.00, determining the form thereof, and the terms and conditions under which said bonds are to be issued and secured", duly and finally adopted on January 16th, 1937 and approved by the Governor of the Commonwealth on the \_\_\_\_\_day of January, 1937.

The issue of bonds of which this bond is one is authorized for the purpose of financing the construction and equipment of a new Library Building (hereinafter called the "Project") to house the general library of the Institution. It is hereby convenanted and agreed that the Institution, upon the completion of said project and acceptance thereof will charge and collect for or in connection with the use, facilities or services of the project and replacements thereof, or services rendered therein, such fees and charges as the Board of Visitors of the Institution shall deem proper so that the project shall always have sufficient receipts and revenues, determined as provided by sub-section (e) of Section 6 the ct first above cited, to provide for the payment of all expenses of operation and tenance of the project, as defined in said resolution, in addition to the discharge, in due course, of any liabilities or debts of the institution incurred in connection with the project, including the principal of and interest on the bonds of the issue of which this bond is one, and that a part of any such fees and charges so collected, sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as such principal and interest respectively become due, will annually be set aside in the said Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account in the manner and to the extent provided in said resolution. Said Sinking Fund is hereby irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as they severally become due, and the institution shall not be liable to make such payment out of any other fund or moneys whatsoever.

In the event of default as defined in Section Seven of said Act, the holders of twenty-five per centum (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the bonds then outstanding of the issue of which this bond is one, may appoint a Trustee and the principal of all the bonds may be declared due and payable before the maturity thereof and a Receiver may be appointed on the conditions, in the at the time and with the provided in Section Seven of said Act. Said bonds shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and shall not create of constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise. Neither the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, nor the members of the Board of Visitors of the Institution, nor any person executing said bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds, or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof.

It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution and Statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia to exist, to have happened, and to have been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond exist, have happened and have been performed, and this bond does not constitute an indebtedness withing the constitutional or general statutory limitations of the Commonwealth, or any public body.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused this bond to be signed in its name by its Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary of its Board of Visitors, and the interest coupons hereto attached to be authenticated by the facsimile signature of its Bursar, and this bond to be dated the first day of February, 1937.

$523,000.00 LIBRARY REVENUE BONDS OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sealed proposals will be received by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, on January 29th, 1937, at eleven o'clock A. M., in the Office of the President, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, for the purchase of $523,000.00 Library Revenue Bonds of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, authorized pursuant to Chapter 49 of the Acts of the Extra Session of 1933, of the General Assembly of Virginia, as amended, and by virtue of a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted January 16, 1937, to which act and resolution prospective bidders are hereby referred. The proceeds of said bonds, together with a proposed grant by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works, estimated at approximately $427,909.00, will be applied to financing the cost of the construction and equipment of a new Library Building, (hereinafter referred to as the "project"), to house the general library of the University.

Said bonds will be valid and legally binding limited obligations of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, payable solely from the revenues of the project after providing for the cost of operation and maintenance thereof, and the University will convenant to deposit out of such revenues, in a Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account which will be pledged to the payment of the principal and interest of said bonds, on or before each semi-annual maturity date up to and including February 1, 1942, 110% and on or before each semi-annual maturity date thereafter until the funds in said Account are sufficient to provide for all principal and interest payable on the outstanding bonds, 100% of the principal and interest payable on each such maturity date. The opinion of Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow of New York City to this effect will be furnished to the successful bidder.

The University does not pledge its general credit in any way for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, nor are the bonds in any way a debt or obligation of the Commonwealth of Virginia, either legal, moral or otherwise.

In the opinion of Counsel, the interest on said bonds will be exempt from Federal income tax inder the Constitution of the United States of America now in force.

Said bonds will not be exempt from the income tax of the State of Virginia, However, Section 72 of the Tax Code of Virginia, providing that taxes on incomes, franchises and licenses shall be in lieu of a specific property tax on property defined by said section, was amended by the Extra Session of the Virginia General Assembly of 1936 so as to include therein all bonds thereafter issued by State educational institutions under the provisions of Chapter 49 of the Acts of Assembly of 1933, as amended.

Said bonds will be dated February 1, 1937, and will mature in the principal amount of $6,000.00 on August 1, 1938, $6,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1939 to 1942, boty inclusive, $6,000.00 on February 1, 1943, $8,000.00 on August 1, 1943, $8,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1944 to 1948, both inclusive, $8,000.00 on February 1, 1949, $9,000.00 on August 1, 1949, $9,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1950 to 1955, both inclusive, $10,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1956 to 1967, both inclusive, and $10,000.00 on February 1, 1968.

Said bonds will bear interest at a rate not exceeding four per centum (4%) per annum expressed in a multiple of one-fourth of one per centum per annum, said interest to be payable semi-annually on the first days of February and August in each year. Both principal and interest of said bonds will be payable at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia. The Bonds will be coupon bonds in the denomination of $1000.00 each, with the privilege of registration as to principal only.

The sum required to be obtained at the sale of said bonds is not less than $523,000.00.

Each bidder must state in his proposal the rate of interest which the bonds are to bear, namein a single rate. Comparison of proposals will be made by ascertaining the amount of interest to be paid by the institution throughout the life of the issue at the proposed rate and deducting therefrom the amount of premium bid, if any, thus determining the lowest net interest cost to the institution for the whole issue.

In addition to the amount bid, the purchaser must pay accrued interest at the rate borne by the bonds from the date of the bonds to the date of payment of the purchase price.

THE RIGHT IS RESERVED TO REJECT ANY OR ALL BIDS AND ANY BID NOT COMPLYING WITH THE TERMS OF THIS NOTICE WILL BE REJECTED.

All bidders are required to deposit a certified check, payable to the order of "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", in the amount of $10,000.00. Checks of unsuccessful bidders will be returned upon the award of the bonds. The check of a successful bidder will be retained to be applied in part payment for the bonds or to partially secure the University from any loss resulting from the failure of the bidder to comply with the terms of his bid.

Proposals should be addressed to the President, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, and enclosed in a sealed envelope Marked on the outside, "Proposal for Library Revenue Bonds".

Proposal forms and full information with reference to the terms and conditions under which these bonds will be issued, including a copy of the resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, adopted January 16th, 1937, authorizing said issue of bonds, may be obtained by addressing the undersigned.

On December 27, 1935, we received in the Philip F. duPont Trust No. 1-28-B, 381 45/55 shares General Motors Corporation Common stock as a dividend on 21000 shares duPont Common stock held in that account. The general rule is that dividends of this nature constitute income which is properly distributable to the beneficiaries of a trust. Acting on the theory that the general rule applied in this instance, we communicated with you for advise as to whether you desired to have the General Motors stock distributed to you or whether you preferred having us sell the stock and distribute the proceeds thereform.

On December 20, 1935, you requested that the 45/55th sahre be sold and the proceeds distributed to you and that the remaining e81 shares be transferred to the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. The 381 shares, represented by Certificates Nos. WD14-3/390 for 100 shares each and WC109587 for 81 shares, were delivered in accordance with your instructions on January 9, 1936. On February 29, 1936, we sold the fractional share for $48.66 which amount was included in the payment which we made to the University on April 9, 1936.

Through an error on our part, we entirely overlooked a clause which was incorporated in this trust instrument relating to dividends received in the account. We quote from the instrument as follows

"All dividends received by the said Trustee upon and from any securities constituting a portion of the principal, if payable in cash, shall be considered and shall constitute income, and if payable in stock or other securities, shall not be considered income, but shall constitute a portion of the trust principal and shall be so treated by the said Trustee."

It is evident from this provision of the trust instrument that the General Motors stock and cash proceeds from the sale of the fractional share were distributed to you in error, since such stock and cash constitute a part of the principal of the trust fund. For this reason, we obliged to request that you return to us, either endorsed in blank or with stock powers attached properly signed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the 381 shares of General Motors stock bearing the certificate numbers shown above. Also, that you forward to us your check in the amount of $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55th share which we distributed to you in error.

This request is made on the assumption that the stock has been retained by you. If such stock has been sold, it was technically sold for the account of the principal of this trust fund and it will therefore be necessary that you forward to us your check for the amount of the proceeds of such sale, plus $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55ths of a share which we distributed to you in error. In the event that you have retained the stock the Wilmington Trust Company will, of course, reimburse you for any expenses incurred in the shipment of these securities to us and will likewise absorb the transfer of the securities from the present name back to the name of Wilmington Trust Company Trustee under Agreement with Philip F. duPont.

We regret the inconvenience which you may have experienced by reason of this error. Viewing the matter solely from an income standpoint you, of course, have not suffered because the dividends have been going to you regularly anyhow and there has therefore been no loss of income by reason of the error.

It will be very much appreciated if you will make reply as expeditiously as possible.

Under authority vested in me by Section 809 of the Code of Virginia (1930), I hereby call a special meeting of the Board of Visitor of the University of Virginia to be held in the President's Office at the University at eleven (11) A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes

(1) To repeal and annul a resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1956, entitled "RESOLUTION NO. 2— AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA and BONDS IN THE AGGRAGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE ISSUED AND SECURED".

(2) To condiser, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more than $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erecting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 193, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March, 6th, 1936, and constituting chapter 12, of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly from the project for the erection of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

Will you please send notices of this meeting to each member of the Board, requesting each member to acknowledge due and timely receipt thereof.

Name

Address

Mr. Fred W. Scott

909 West Franklin St.,

Richmond, Virginia

Mr. W. A. Stuart,

Abingdon, Virginia.

Mr. James H. Corbitt,

Suffolk, Virginia

Mr. Lewis C. Williams,

American National Bank Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. R. Gray Williams,

Winchester, Virginia.

Mr. C. B. Garnett,

Tower Building

14th & K Sts., N.W.

Washington, D. C.

Mr. C. O'Conor Goolrick

Fredericksburg, Va.

Mr. Sidney B. Hall

State Office Bldg.,

Richmond, Va.

Mr. Hollis Rinehart

Charlottesville, Va.

Mrs. M.C.B. Munford

329 N. Harrison St.

Richmond, Va.

E. I. Carruthers, being duly sworn, deposes and says.

(1) That he is the Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the Commonwealth of Virginia,

(2) That pursuant to call of the Rector of said Institution the notice, a true copy of which is hereto attached marked "Exhibit A", and hereby made a part hereof, was given to each member of said Board of Visitors seven days before the date of meeting therein referred to by depositing on January 9th, 1937, a copy thereof in the United States Mails, in a securely sealed envelope postage prepaid, and addressed to each such member at his address as the same appears on the records of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, viz:

(3) That prior to date of the meeting referred to in old notice, acknowledgement of receipt of said notice and waiver of said notice, duly dated and signed by each of the members of said Board of Visitors, in the form hereto attached marked "Exhibit B" and hereby made a part hereof, were received by him.

"EXHIBIT A"
-----------

Pursuant to call of the Rector, dated January 1937, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia will be held at the office of the President at the University at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, for the following purposes:

(1) To repeal and annul a Resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors at its adjourned meeting held on October 23rd, 1936, entitled. "RESOLUTION NO. 2—AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LIBRARY BONDS IN THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $523,000.00, DETERMINING THE FORM THEREOF AND THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH SAID BONDS ARE TO BE IULD AND SECURED".

(2) To consider, approve and authorize the execution, issuance, sale and delivery of a series of bonds in an aggregate principal amount of not more then $523,000.00, to be known as "University of Virginia New Library Bonds", and to fix and define the terms thereof, said bonds to be in denominations of $1000.00 each, and the proceeds from the sale of said bonds to be used to pay the greater part of the cost of erevting and equipping a new Library Building to house the general library of the University of Virginia, which is to be located upon the grounds of the University of Virginia.

(3) In accordance with Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed at the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of said General Assembly approved March 6th, 1936, and constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1936, and as amended by an Act of said General Assembly passed at the Extra Session held in December, 1936, and which amendment was approved December 24th, 1936, to determine the revenues and receipts to be deemed as derived directly or indirectly from the project for the creation of which the above mentioned bonds are to be issued and the costs and expenses of the operation and maintenance thereof, and to do generally all acts and things required or authorized under said Chapter 49, amended as aforesaid.

(4) To authorize any and all acts and things necessary, proper or convenient in connection with the execution, sale and delivery of said bonds, and in connection with the erection and equipping of said Library Building.

(5) To transact any and all other business that may come before said meeting.

You are requested to attend this meeting if it is possible for you to do so.

Immediately upon receipt of this notice please date, and sign the acknowledgment and waiver attached to the enclosed duplicate copy of this notice, with a signed and dated acknowledgment and waiver attached, so that it will reach me not later than the 21st instant.

"EXHIBIT B"
-----------

As one of the members of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia I hereby acknowledge due and timely receipt of the attached notice of a special meeting of said Board of Visitors, which is to be held on Saturday, January 16th, 1937, at 11.00 o'clock, A. M., at the Office of the President at the University.

Furthermore, I do hereby consent to the holding of said meeting, and the transaction of any and all business that may come before said meeting, and I do hereby waive notice of the time, place, date and purpose thereof,

Signed and dated at \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, this \_\_\_\_\_ day of January, 1937.

G. G. Waugh Company, Culpeper, Va.,

$14,475.00

Fox Brothers, Greenwood, Va.

15,740.00

F. L. Showalter, Inc., Lynchburg, Va.

16,400.00

Hall & Mitchell, Keswick, Va.

17,250.00

Wm. Muirhead Construction Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

21,480.00

The New Buildings Committee of the Board of Visitors met on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of the President of the University to receive bids, in accordance with their advertisement therefor, for construction of the foundation of the New Library Building.

There were present Hollis Rinehart, chn, and Levis C. Williams, Fred W. Scott, Rector, President Newcomb and E. I. Carruthers, Secretary. There were also present T. H. Tellier, Special Agent of PWA, Fleming R. Hurt, Jr., Acting State Director PWA in Richmond, E. B. Hazelgrove, Resident Engineer, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't Buildings & Grounds, and the various bidding contracts.

The following bids were received:

Following the reading of the bids, the contractors were excused and the Committee proceeded to consider them together with the conditions making necessary the calling for second bidding on the foundation. The following motion, offered by Mr. Williams, seconded by Mr. Scott, was adopted:

On November 11, 1936, Mr. Rinehart, called the attention of the President to the provisions of Section 4706 of the Code of Virginia, and also to the fact which had been mentioned by him at the meeting on November 10, that he was a stockholder in the Barnes Lumber Co., Mr. Rinehart further stated that he had requested this Corporation to withdraw its bid for the foundation of the new Library and said Corporation did withdraw its said bid.

The situation was submitted to the Public Works Administration and a letter upon the subject, dated November 12, 1936, and another letter dated November 13, 1936, was addressed by the Administration to the President. Copies of these letters are filed herewith as a part of the minutes of this meeting.

After a discussion of this situation it was thereupon

RESOLVED, that the action of this Committee taken November 10, 1936, awarding contract for the foundation to the Barnes Lumber Corporation be and is hereby rescinded.

Upon receipt of the letter of November 12, from the Public Works Administration above referred to, readvertisement for bids was made on November 14th and upon presentation to this meeting of bids from six (6) different firms it was thereupon resolvwd as follows:

THAT THIS COMMITTEE hereby recommends to the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works that said Administration approve the bid of the G. G. Waugh Company, of Culpeper, Va., whose bid of $14,475.00 for said work was the lowest bid received.

The meeting then adjourned.

Doyle and Russell, of Richmond, Va., Schedule "C"

$486,223.00

Reliance Engineering Co., Charlotte, N. C., Heating

35,553.00

L. T. Washington, of Washington, D. C. Electrical work

19,500.00

Williams Company, Norfolk, Va., plumbing

22,868.00

Total

$664,144.00

Doyle & Russell of Richmond, Virginia.

The Building, Schedule D.

$586,223.00

The Reliance Engineering Company of Charlotte, North Carolina.

Heating Contract, Schedule F.

35,553.00

The Williams Company of Norfolk, Virginia.

Plumbing contract, Schedule E.

22,868.00

L. T. Washington of Washington, D. C.

Electrical contract, Schedule G.

19,500.00

The New Buildings Committee met at the Office of President Newcomb on this date at 11 o'clock, A. M., to receive and open the bids on the new Library Building pursuant to advertisement therefor.

There were present, The Rector, Hollis Rinehart, charn, and Lewis C. Williams, representing the New Buildings Committee, President Newcomb, L. Taylor and John K. Peebles, Jr., architects, Frank E. Hartman, Sup't of Buildings and Grounds, and A. Brockenbrough, Jr., representing the State Office of the Public Works Administration

By reason of the large number of persons present representing the bidders the meeting was adjourned to Room 6, Monroe Hall where the bids were opened and considered.

Ten bids were submitted for general contract and fifteen for heating, electrical work and plumbing.

The following were found to be the lowest bidders and were tentatively awarded the respective contracts, subject to approval of the Board of Visitors and the Divisional Administrator of Public Works Administration

The following resolution was approved:

RESOLVED, by the New Buildings Committee of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Public Works Administration be requested to award the following contracts to the following corporations or indivisuals, each being the low bidder in the respective field.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
------------------------

NUMBER

$1000.00

NUMBER

$1000.00

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

LIBRARY REVENUE BOND

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a State Institution in the Commonwealth of Virginia, for value received, promises to pay to the Bearer of this bond, or, if it be registered, to the registered holder, solely from the Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account hereinafter mentioned (hereinafter called the "Sinking Fund"), and not otherwise, the sun of

\_\_\_\_ ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS \_\_\_\_

($1000.00) on the first day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_, and solely from said Sinking Fund and not otherwise, to pay interest thereon at the rate of \_\_\_\_\_ per centum(%) per annum, on the first day of August, 1937, and semi-annuall, thereafter on the first days of February and August in each year from the date of this bond until it matures, upon presentation and surrender as they severally mature of the coupons therefor annexed hereto. Subject to the terms and conditions hereinabove provided, both principal of and interest on this bond will be paid in any coin of currency which, on the respective dates of payment of the principal of and interest on this bond, is legal tender for the payment of public or private debts, at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the City of Richmond, Virginia.

This bond may be registered at the option of the holder, as to principal only, on the book kept for that purpose in the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia, in accordance with the provisions endorsed on the back hereof.

This bond is one of an issue, the authorized principal amount of which is Five Hundred and Twenty-three Thousand Dollars, ($523,000.00), the bonds of which are of like tenor, except as to the numbers and maturity, and is issued pursuant to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and an Act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, entitled "An Act to authorize and empower educational institutions of the State to erect buildings and to make other improvements to their plants and for such purpose to borrow or accept money under the provisions of an act of the Congress of the United States, known as the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to issue bonds and certificates of indebtedness and other obligations, to provide funds for the payment of the principal of and the interest on the same and to secure such payments, and to authorize and empower said institutions to lease with or without the privilege of purchase buildings and projects constructed pursuant to the provisions of said National Industrial Recovery Act and any acts amendatory thereof and any acts supplemental thereto and revisions thereof, and any further act of the Congress of the United States, and to acquire and convey such real estate or other property as shall be required for such buildings and projects", approved September 12th, 1933, constituting Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Extra Session of 1933, as amended by an Act of the General Assembly, approved March 6th, 1936, constituting Chapter 123 of the Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia of 1936, an as further amended by an act of said General Assembly of Virginia passed at the Extra Session of 1936, approved December 24th, 1936, and by virtue of a Resolution of the Board of Visitors of said Institution entitled. —"Resolution authorizing the issuance of University of Virginia Library Revenue Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $523,000.00, determining the form thereof, and the terms and conditions under which said bonds are to be issued and secured", duly and finally adopted on January 16th, 1937 and approved by the Governor of the Commonwealth on the \_\_\_\_\_day of January, 1937.

The issue of bonds of which this bond is one is authorized for the purpose of financing the construction and equipment of a new Library Building (hereinafter called the "Project") to house the general library of the Institution. It is hereby convenanted and agreed that the Institution, upon the completion of said project and acceptance thereof will charge and collect for or in connection with the use, facilities or services of the project and replacements thereof, or services rendered therein, such fees and charges as the Board of Visitors of the Institution shall deem proper so that the project shall always have sufficient receipts and revenues, determined as provided by sub-section (e) of Section 6 the ct first above cited, to provide for the payment of all expenses of operation and tenance of the project, as defined in said resolution, in addition to the discharge, in due course, of any liabilities or debts of the institution incurred in connection with the project, including the principal of and interest on the bonds of the issue of which this bond is one, and that a part of any such fees and charges so collected, sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as such principal and interest respectively become due, will annually be set aside in the said Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account in the manner and to the extent provided in said resolution. Said Sinking Fund is hereby irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonds of said issue as they severally become due, and the institution shall not be liable to make such payment out of any other fund or moneys whatsoever.

In the event of default as defined in Section Seven of said Act, the holders of twenty-five per centum (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the bonds then outstanding of the issue of which this bond is one, may appoint a Trustee and the principal of all the bonds may be declared due and payable before the maturity thereof and a Receiver may be appointed on the conditions, in the at the time and with the provided in Section Seven of said Act. Said bonds shall not be in any way a debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and shall not create of constitute any indebtedness or obligation of the Commonwealth, either legal, moral or otherwise. Neither the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, nor the members of the Board of Visitors of the Institution, nor any person executing said bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds, or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof.

It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required by the Constitution and Statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia to exist, to have happened, and to have been performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond exist, have happened and have been performed, and this bond does not constitute an indebtedness withing the constitutional or general statutory limitations of the Commonwealth, or any public body.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused this bond to be signed in its name by its Rector, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by the Secretary of its Board of Visitors, and the interest coupons hereto attached to be authenticated by the facsimile signature of its Bursar, and this bond to be dated the first day of February, 1937.

$523,000.00 LIBRARY REVENUE BONDS OF THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sealed proposals will be received by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, on January 29th, 1937, at eleven o'clock A. M., in the Office of the President, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, for the purchase of $523,000.00 Library Revenue Bonds of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, authorized pursuant to Chapter 49 of the Acts of the Extra Session of 1933, of the General Assembly of Virginia, as amended, and by virtue of a resolution of the Board of Visitors adopted January 16, 1937, to which act and resolution prospective bidders are hereby referred. The proceeds of said bonds, together with a proposed grant by the Federal Emergency Administration of Public Works, estimated at approximately $427,909.00, will be applied to financing the cost of the construction and equipment of a new Library Building, (hereinafter referred to as the "project"), to house the general library of the University.

Said bonds will be valid and legally binding limited obligations of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, payable solely from the revenues of the project after providing for the cost of operation and maintenance thereof, and the University will convenant to deposit out of such revenues, in a Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account which will be pledged to the payment of the principal and interest of said bonds, on or before each semi-annual maturity date up to and including February 1, 1942, 110% and on or before each semi-annual maturity date thereafter until the funds in said Account are sufficient to provide for all principal and interest payable on the outstanding bonds, 100% of the principal and interest payable on each such maturity date. The opinion of Messrs. Hawkins, Delafield & Longfellow of New York City to this effect will be furnished to the successful bidder.

The University does not pledge its general credit in any way for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds, nor are the bonds in any way a debt or obligation of the Commonwealth of Virginia, either legal, moral or otherwise.

In the opinion of Counsel, the interest on said bonds will be exempt from Federal income tax inder the Constitution of the United States of America now in force.

Said bonds will not be exempt from the income tax of the State of Virginia, However, Section 72 of the Tax Code of Virginia, providing that taxes on incomes, franchises and licenses shall be in lieu of a specific property tax on property defined by said section, was amended by the Extra Session of the Virginia General Assembly of 1936 so as to include therein all bonds thereafter issued by State educational institutions under the provisions of Chapter 49 of the Acts of Assembly of 1933, as amended.

Said bonds will be dated February 1, 1937, and will mature in the principal amount of $6,000.00 on August 1, 1938, $6,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1939 to 1942, boty inclusive, $6,000.00 on February 1, 1943, $8,000.00 on August 1, 1943, $8,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1944 to 1948, both inclusive, $8,000.00 on February 1, 1949, $9,000.00 on August 1, 1949, $9,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1950 to 1955, both inclusive, $10,000.00 each on the first days of February and August in each of the years 1956 to 1967, both inclusive, and $10,000.00 on February 1, 1968.

Said bonds will bear interest at a rate not exceeding four per centum (4%) per annum expressed in a multiple of one-fourth of one per centum per annum, said interest to be payable semi-annually on the first days of February and August in each year. Both principal and interest of said bonds will be payable at the office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in Richmond, Virginia. The Bonds will be coupon bonds in the denomination of $1000.00 each, with the privilege of registration as to principal only.

The sum required to be obtained at the sale of said bonds is not less than $523,000.00.

Each bidder must state in his proposal the rate of interest which the bonds are to bear, namein a single rate. Comparison of proposals will be made by ascertaining the amount of interest to be paid by the institution throughout the life of the issue at the proposed rate and deducting therefrom the amount of premium bid, if any, thus determining the lowest net interest cost to the institution for the whole issue.

In addition to the amount bid, the purchaser must pay accrued interest at the rate borne by the bonds from the date of the bonds to the date of payment of the purchase price.

THE RIGHT IS RESERVED TO REJECT ANY OR ALL BIDS AND ANY BID NOT COMPLYING WITH THE TERMS OF THIS NOTICE WILL BE REJECTED.

All bidders are required to deposit a certified check, payable to the order of "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia", in the amount of $10,000.00. Checks of unsuccessful bidders will be returned upon the award of the bonds. The check of a successful bidder will be retained to be applied in part payment for the bonds or to partially secure the University from any loss resulting from the failure of the bidder to comply with the terms of his bid.

Proposals should be addressed to the President, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, and enclosed in a sealed envelope Marked on the outside, "Proposal for Library Revenue Bonds".

Proposal forms and full information with reference to the terms and conditions under which these bonds will be issued, including a copy of the resolution of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, adopted January 16th, 1937, authorizing said issue of bonds, may be obtained by addressing the undersigned.

On December 27, 1935, we received in the Philip F. duPont Trust No. 1-28-B, 381 45/55 shares General Motors Corporation Common stock as a dividend on 21000 shares duPont Common stock held in that account. The general rule is that dividends of this nature constitute income which is properly distributable to the beneficiaries of a trust. Acting on the theory that the general rule applied in this instance, we communicated with you for advise as to whether you desired to have the General Motors stock distributed to you or whether you preferred having us sell the stock and distribute the proceeds thereform.

On December 20, 1935, you requested that the 45/55th sahre be sold and the proceeds distributed to you and that the remaining e81 shares be transferred to the name of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia. The 381 shares, represented by Certificates Nos. WD14-3/390 for 100 shares each and WC109587 for 81 shares, were delivered in accordance with your instructions on January 9, 1936. On February 29, 1936, we sold the fractional share for $48.66 which amount was included in the payment which we made to the University on April 9, 1936.

Through an error on our part, we entirely overlooked a clause which was incorporated in this trust instrument relating to dividends received in the account. We quote from the instrument as follows

"All dividends received by the said Trustee upon and from any securities constituting a portion of the principal, if payable in cash, shall be considered and shall constitute income, and if payable in stock or other securities, shall not be considered income, but shall constitute a portion of the trust principal and shall be so treated by the said Trustee."

It is evident from this provision of the trust instrument that the General Motors stock and cash proceeds from the sale of the fractional share were distributed to you in error, since such stock and cash constitute a part of the principal of the trust fund. For this reason, we obliged to request that you return to us, either endorsed in blank or with stock powers attached properly signed by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the 381 shares of General Motors stock bearing the certificate numbers shown above. Also, that you forward to us your check in the amount of $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55th share which we distributed to you in error.

This request is made on the assumption that the stock has been retained by you. If such stock has been sold, it was technically sold for the account of the principal of this trust fund and it will therefore be necessary that you forward to us your check for the amount of the proceeds of such sale, plus $48.66 representing the proceeds from the sale of 45/55ths of a share which we distributed to you in error. In the event that you have retained the stock the Wilmington Trust Company will, of course, reimburse you for any expenses incurred in the shipment of these securities to us and will likewise absorb the transfer of the securities from the present name back to the name of Wilmington Trust Company Trustee under Agreement with Philip F. duPont.

We regret the inconvenience which you may have experienced by reason of this error. Viewing the matter solely from an income standpoint you, of course, have not suffered because the dividends have been going to you regularly anyhow and there has therefore been no loss of income by reason of the error.

It will be very much appreciated if you will make reply as expeditiously as possible.
