---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1941'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1941) June 6, 1941
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 6, 1941

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

4 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENT FOR THE SESSION 2991.GIFTS:LEAVES OF ABSENCE:CHANGE IN TITLE:RESIGNATIONS:PROMOTIONS:ELECTION:ALLOCATION OF UNIVERSITY RESIDENCES:CHARLES STEELE BEQUEST:UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ENGINEERING EXPERIMENT STATION ESTABLISHED:THOMAS FORTUNE RYAN SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED:WILLIAM JAMES RUCKER GIFT OF $50,000 TO ESTABLISH A HOME FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN AS AN ADJUNCT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ORTHOPEDICS OF THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL:NATIONAL DEFENSE RESEARCH COMMITTEE CONTRACTS:FINANCIAL BUDGET 1941-42:MISCELLANEOUS FELLOWSHIP AND SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS:ELECTIONS DURING THE SUMMER:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the General Education Board, to be used to supplement the salary of Dr. Freund, Professor of Rural Social Economics in the University

$ 500.00

From the National Research Council, for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1941, for research in Endocrinology, under the direction of Dr. S. W. Britton

2,000.00

First District

Nelson Montgomery Smith, Christchurch.

Second District

Henry Clarkson Meredith, Jr., Norfolk.

Third District

Zebulon Vance Hooker, II, Richmond.

Fourth District

Frank Wilson Trainer, Farmville.

Fifth District

John David Epperly, Martinsville.

Sixth District

Robert B. Wilkins, Lynchburg.

Seventh District

Timothy Lawrence Smith, Charlottesville.

Eighth District

Walter Gladstone Canham, Jr. Arlington.

Ninth District

James Thomas Colley, Emory.

Tenth District

Hampton Gaines Baylor, Jr. Waynesboro.

The Annual meeting of the Rector and Visitors was held on this date in the President's Office with the following members present: Rector, R. Gray Williams, and Visitors Corbitt, Garnett, Goolrick, Miss Randolph, Rinehart, Stettinius and Lewis C. Williams, and President Newcomb.

The President announced the following:

Upon the recommendation of the President the following Leaves of Absence, Change in Title, Resignations, Promotions and Elections were approved:

Dr. Robert Bennett Bean, Professor of Anatomy, granted leave of absence for the session of 1941-42, upon recommendation of his physician; his substitute to be paid from his salary.

Melvin G. deChazeau, Associate Professor of Commerce, granted leave of absence for the session of 1941-42 to accept a position with the United States Government at Washington in the interest of National Defense.

Dr. Carlisle S. Lentz' tital changed from Superintendent of the University Hospital to Administrator of the University Hospital.

Dr. John Moyer Meredith, Assistant Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery, effective August 1, 1941.

Dr. Claude Coleman, Professor of Neurological Surgery, effective June 15, 1941.

Miss Clare N. J. Wangen, Superintendent of Nurses, University of Virginia Hospital, effective July 1, 1941.

Dr. Oscar Swineford, Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, without change in salary, effective September 15, 1941.

Dr. Saige Davis Blackford, Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, without change in salary. Effective September 15, 1941.

Dr. Everett Cato Drash, Assistant Professor of Clinical Surgery and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, without change in salary. Effective September 15, 1941.

Dr. William Gayle Crutchfield, Associate Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery to Clinical Professor of Neurological Surgery, at no salary from the University of Virginia. Effective August 1, 1941.

Dr. William Henry Parker, Instructor in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery and Gynecology, with increase in salary from $3,500 to $4,000, effective July 1, 1941. The increase in salary to be paid from earnings of the Department.

Dr. Charles J. Frankel, Instructor in Orthopedic Surgery to Assistant Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, effective September 15, 1931, without salary from the University.

Dr. Wiley Roy Mason, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, as a full-time substitute for Dr. R. B. Bean, at a salary of $3,000 for the session of 1941-42, said substitute's salary to be paid from Dr. Bean's salary, effective September 15, 1941.

Upon the recommendation of the Buildings & Grounds Committee, certain University residences about to be vacated were allocated to the following members of the faculty:

Prof. H. R. Pratt's house to Prof. R. K. Gooch @ $450 per year, plus heat charge.

Prof. E. S. Campbell's house to Prof. L. G. Moffatt, @ $450 per year, plus heat charge.

Prof. A. Fickenscher's house to Dr. R. A. Egger @ $600 per year, plus heat charge.

Mr. W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, presented a paper with respect to Mr. Steele's bequest to the University of $100,000, and the form of a resolution desired be adopted by the Board authorizing the President to deliver to the Trustees an acknowledgement of receipt by the University of all cash and securities coming to the University under the said bequest upon the delivery of same. The resolution, as proposed, was adopted.

Mr. Perkins presented the following statement to the Board -

Mr. Charles Steele, of Nassau County, New York, died August 5, 1941, leaving a will which was admitted to probate on August 10, 1941, in the Surrogate's Court of said County, and on the same date letters testamentary were issued thereon to Devereaux Milburn, Francis Skiddy von Stade, and George Whitney, and letters of trusteeship thereunder to Devereaux Milburn and Guaranty Trust Company of New York.

In Article Third of his will, Mr. Steele gives the sum of $100,000.00 to said Trustees to pay the net income therefrom to his sister, Rosa Steele, during her life and upon her death all of the property then constituting the principal of said trust is given to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

The said Rosa Steele died on April 9, 1941, and letters of administration upon her estate were issued by the Orphan's Court of Baltimore, Maryland, on April 16, 1941, to Baltimore National Bank, the Executor named in her will.

In order to avoid the delay and expense of a judicial settlement of the account of said Trustees, the University of Virginia and Baltimore National Bank, as Executor of the estate of the said Rosa Steele, deceased, have requested that said Trustees present a final account of their proceedings directly to said University and to said Bank for examination and approval. Said account has been duly prepared and presented and a copy thereof is now in the hands of the Attorney for the University.

Said Trustees are now requesting said Bank, Executor as aforesaid, and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to ratify, confirm and approve all of the acts and doings of said Trustees and to execute a receipt, discharge, and acquittance to and of said Trustees for all amounts due the estate of said Rosa Steele, deceased, and to said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia under the provisions of Article Third of the will of Charles Steele, deceased, and for the purpose of avoiding additional expense and delay, agree that they will not make application for a judicial settlement of said account.

An agreement, receipt and discharge has been prepared by said Trustees for execution by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and Baltimore National Bank, as Executor as aforesaid, and will hereafter be submitted to the University for execution and delivery.

After a discussion of the situation, the following resolution was unanimously adopted -

RESOLVED, that Dr. J. L. Newcomb, President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute, in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and at such time as he may deem proper, to deliver to Devereux Milburn and Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Trustees as aforesaid under the will of Charles Steele, deceased, an acknowledgement of receipt by the University from said Trustees of all securities and cash, principal, if any, to which the University is entitled under Article Third of the will of said Charles Steele, agreeing on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that said Corporation will not make application at this time for a judicial settlement of the account of said Trustees, and also agreeing on behalf of said Corporation that upon payment to it of such securities and cash said Trustees are released and forever discharged from any and all claims or demands of whatsoever nature in law or in equity the University ever had, now has, or shall hereafter have against said Trustees, arising in any manner by reason or in consequence of any transaction, account, matter, or thing done or omitted to be done by said Trustees, in respect of said trust, and further releasing and discharging said Trustees of and from any and all obligation to account further to the University in any respect whatsoever, and specifically waiving the issuance and service of a citation or other process in any action or proceeding brought by said Trustees, or either of them, for the judicial settlement of said account, consenting that a judgment or decree may be entered at any time in any court of competent jurisdiction without notice to the University, judicially settling and allowing said account and discharging said Trustees as to all transactions, acts, matters, or things done or omitted to be done by said Trustees in respect of said trust, and said agreement shall contain a warranty on the part of the University to said Trustees that the University has not assigned any interest in the principal or in the income of said fund, or any part thereof, and that there is no lien against its interest in said fund.

It is to be distinctly understood, however, that such agreement, release, discharge, and acquittance shall not be executed and delivered by said J. L. Newcomb, President, as aforesaid, until the form thereof shall have been approved by L. McCarthy Downs, Auditor of Public Accounts, of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and W. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, which approval shall be evidenced by the signatures of said L. McCarthy Downs as Auditor of Public Accounts, as aforesaid, and of W. Allan Perkins, as Attorney as aforesaid, first affixed to said agreement, release, and acquittal.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following resolutions were adopted for the establishing, supervising and financing the Engineering Experiment Station:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia Engineering Experiment Station be and the same is hereby authorized and established in connection with the Engineering Department of the University of Virginia;

RESOLVED, further, that the President be and he is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a Council of from three to five members, one of whom shall be the Director of the Station, to have general supervision over the actual research and other investigative work carried on by the Station.

RESOLVED, finally, that a budget for the operation of this Station be worked out by the President in cooperation with the Council, to be submitted to this Board for its approval at a meeting to be held during the session 1941-42.

The Rayn scholarships, with emcluments of $300 each, were awarded for the session 1941-42, as follows:

Mr. Perkins appeared before the Board and read the following letter addressed to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by Mr. William J. Rucker, of Charlottesville.

I have recently become interested in the establishment of a home for Crippled Children to be owned and operated by the University of Virginia as an adjunct to the Department of Orthopedics of the University Hospital.

I am advised that a property consisting of some nine or more acres of land with large stone residence and several outbuildings thereon and situated on the Ivy Road about one mile west of the University may be purchased at a reasonable price, and when certain structual changes and improvements are made in the buildings it will be adapted to this purpose.

I, therefore, desire to give you the sum of Fifty Thousand dollars to be used by you in the purchase of this property, in making such changes, improvements and additions to the buildings, and improvements to the grounds, as you may see fit, and for equipping and maintaining this property as a home for Crippled Children so long as the necessity therefor may exist.

If, at any time in the future changed conditions should, in your sound judgment, render the continued operation of the home inadvisable, you are authorized to discontinue such operation and, either use the property for other purposes in connection with the University Hospital, or to sell and convey it applying the proceeds to such other uses of the Hospital as you may think best.

It will be a source of gratification to me if you should see fit to designate the institution and have it known as "The William James Rucker Home for Convalescent Children", but I do not make this a condition to my gift.

This letter will be presented to you by my friend, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and I will appreciate your advising him of your desires in the matter as soon as may be convenient.

The President then made a statement outlining the need for such an institution as Mr. Rucker's gift will make possible, and upon motion made by Mr. Stettinius, and seconded by Miss Randolph, it was unanimously,

RESOLVED that Mr. Rucker's generous gift is gratefully accepted by this Board and the Rector is hereby requested to prepare a suitable acknowledgment expressing to Mr. Rucker this Board's appreciation of the great public service which he is rendering to the Hospital of the University of Virginia and to the many children whom our Medical Staff is striving to bring back to strength and usefulness; and that the institution shall be designated and known as "The William James Rucker Home for Convalescent Children".

Mr. Perkins then presented to the Board a written offer executed by My Own Development Corporation by which said Corporation offers to sell to the University a tract of some eleven acres of land situated on State Highway No. 250, just west of the University grounds, at the price of $22,000.00 cash. Discussion of this offer developed the following facts -

1st. That the property offered is well located for the purposes under consideration, and is the property referred to in Mr. Rucker's letter.

2nd. That in the opinion of those members of the Board who are familiar with the property the price of $22,000.00 is reasonable.

3rd. That possession of this property may be had at once and the necessary changes, repairs, and improvements to the grounds and buildings may be proceeded with without delay.

This Board is therefore of opinion that said offer should be accepted but in order that some further study of all surrounding conditions and facts may be made and all details of said property's physical characteristics, and the status of its title be inquired into, it is-

RESOLVED, - (1) That the Rector be and is hereby requested to appoint a special committee to make such study and inquiry, and that this Committee, with the advice of the Attorney for the University as to the sufficiency of the title to said property, be and is hereby given full power to accept said offer and do all things needful to close the purchase of said property, paying the purchase price therefor from the funds given by Mr. Rucker, and receiving a deed conveying said property to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia.

(2) That said committee shall also be charged with the duty of determining whether any other property in the immediate neighborhood should be acquired by the University, said committee being fully empowered to acquire such additional property if in their opinion it is advisable so to do.

(3) That the President be and is hereby authorized to appoint such Committee or Committees as he may consider necessary to plan and execute such changes, improvements, and additions to the buildings and improvements to the grounds and equipment of buildings and other facilities as to such Committees may seem necessary, but with the express limitation that no more than $13,000.00 from the sum given by Mr. Rucker shall be expended on these accounts.

The President presented three proposed contracts of the National Defense Research Committee and the University covering research projects in the Department of Chemistry, and requested authority for the Rector to execute same on behalf of the University whereupon the following was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the Rector be and he is hereby authorized to execute the three contracts between the University of Virginia and the National Defense Research Committee covering research for the said Committee in the Department of Chemistry of the University of Virginia.

The President presented his budget estimates for the fiscal year of 1941-42, showing estimated receipts of $2,853,199, and disbursements of $2,845, 347, and stated that the budget was a tentative working basis until a revised budget could be presented following fall registration for the session of 1941-42. The tentative budget was adopted.

A list of the miscellaneous fellowship and scholarship awards which had been made to date for the following session, was presented for the information of the Board. The list will be found spread on the Scholarship Book.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, by the Board of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President, in consultation with the Deans and Committees appointed by the President from the staff, be empowered during the summer to employ those professors who have been authorized by the Board, but who have not yet been selected. It is understood that all actions of the President are committees will be brought to the Rector and Visitors for ratification at their next meeting.

The meeting then adjourned to September 26, 1941 at 11 o'clock A. M.

I have recently become interested in the establishment of a home for Crippled Children to be owned and operated by the University of Virginia as an adjunct to the Department of Orthopedics of the University Hospital.

I am advised that a property consisting of some nine or more acres of land with large stone residence and several outbuildings thereon and situated on the Ivy Road about one mile west of the University may be purchased at a reasonable price, and when certain structual changes and improvements are made in the buildings it will be adapted to this purpose.

I, therefore, desire to give you the sum of Fifty Thousand dollars to be used by you in the purchase of this property, in making such changes, improvements and additions to the buildings, and improvements to the grounds, as you may see fit, and for equipping and maintaining this property as a home for Crippled Children so long as the necessity therefor may exist.

If, at any time in the future changed conditions should, in your sound judgment, render the continued operation of the home inadvisable, you are authorized to discontinue such operation and, either use the property for other purposes in connection with the University Hospital, or to sell and convey it applying the proceeds to such other uses of the Hospital as you may think best.

It will be a source of gratification to me if you should see fit to designate the institution and have it known as "The William James Rucker Home for Convalescent Children", but I do not make this a condition to my gift.

This letter will be presented to you by my friend, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and I will appreciate your advising him of your desires in the matter as soon as may be convenient.

I have recently become interested in the establishment of a home for Crippled Children to be owned and operated by the University of Virginia as an adjunct to the Department of Orthopedics of the University Hospital.

I am advised that a property consisting of some nine or more acres of land with large stone residence and several outbuildings thereon and situated on the Ivy Road about one mile west of the University may be purchased at a reasonable price, and when certain structual changes and improvements are made in the buildings it will be adapted to this purpose.

I, therefore, desire to give you the sum of Fifty Thousand dollars to be used by you in the purchase of this property, in making such changes, improvements and additions to the buildings, and improvements to the grounds, as you may see fit, and for equipping and maintaining this property as a home for Crippled Children so long as the necessity therefor may exist.

If, at any time in the future changed conditions should, in your sound judgment, render the continued operation of the home inadvisable, you are authorized to discontinue such operation and, either use the property for other purposes in connection with the University Hospital, or to sell and convey it applying the proceeds to such other uses of the Hospital as you may think best.

It will be a source of gratification to me if you should see fit to designate the institution and have it known as "The William James Rucker Home for Convalescent Children", but I do not make this a condition to my gift.

This letter will be presented to you by my friend, Mr. W. Allan Perkins, and I will appreciate your advising him of your desires in the matter as soon as may be convenient.
