---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1945'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1945) December 29, 1945
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 29, 1945

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

5 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ENROLLMENT AS OF THIS DATE: 1932GIFTS:RESIGNATIONS:PROMOTIONS:ELECTIONS:APPOINTMENTS:CONSOLIDATION OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:THE BARHAM PROPERTY PURCHASE:BOARD OF MANAGERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION IN RE: CERTAIN CONCESSIONS OPERATED AT THE UNIVERSITY:REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE COMPENSATION OF THE CLINICAL MEMBERS OF THE MEDICAL FACULTY:ARCHITECTURAL FEES FOR EGGERS AND HIGGINS:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Charles C. Haskell and Company

$ 3,600.00

for a grant in support of the work carried out in the laboratory of Dr. Alfred Burger.

From Mr. Leander McCormick-Goodhart

$ 750.00

for furnishings for the Observatory House.

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 11 o'clock in the office of the President. Present: R. Gray Williams, Rector, Lewis C. Williams, C. B. Garnett, C. O'Conor Goolrick, E. C. Anderson, D. S. Lancaster, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, Richard A. Carrington, Jr., Barron F. Black and Dr. J. M. Emmett, Visitors, and President Newcomb, and President Combs of Mary Washington College.

The President Made the following announcements:

Resolution adopted to purchase 9.27 acres on the west side of Route 29 owned by Mrs. Emmalou Barham and Charles Barham, Jr., at a price of $1,500.00 per acre or a total of $13,905.00 for the 9.27 acres.

Dr. J. M. Emmett of Clifton Forge, Virginia, appointed a Visitor of the University of Virginia to fill the unexpired term of the late James H. Corbitt, was duly qualified and attended this meeting.

The resignation of Mr. Lawrence Lee, Assistant Professor of French, was presented and accepted. The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the resignation of Mr. Lawrence Lee be and the same is hereby accepted with regret. We wish for Mr. Lee the highest success in his new undertaking.

The resignation of Mr. Edmund Olaf Belsheim, was presented and accepted. The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that the resignation of Mr. Edmund Olaf Belsheim be and the same is hereby accepted with regret. We wish for Mr. Belsheim the highest success in his new undertaking.

Upon the recommendation of President Newcomb, the following promotions were voted:

Mr. Jack Preston Dalton, Associate Librarian and Assistant Professor was promoted to Associate Professor at no change in salary.

Dr. Byrd Leavell, Instructor in the Department of Medicine, promoted to Assistant Professor of Medicine, incumbency to begin January 1, 1946 at an annual salary of $3,000 from the University, and is required to contribute 20% of his current earnings to the department.

Mr. Lester Jesse Cappon was designated Honorary Consultant in Archives.

Mr. Stanislaw John Makielski changed from Associate Professor of Art and Architecture to Associate for Professor of Architectural Construction.

Mr. John Edwin Canaday changed from Assistant Professor of History of Art to Assistant Professor of Art.

Dr. Emmett was appointed by the Rector to the special committee on the Compensation of the Clinical Members of the Medical Faculty.

Dr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., elected Assistant Professor of Accounting, incumbency to begin February 27, 1946 at a salary of $3,000 per session.

Mr. Richard Rolston Fletcher, elected Assistant Professor of Extension Education, incumbency to begin November 15, 1945, at a salary of $3,400 per session.

Dr. John L. Guerrant, elected Instructor in Medicine, incumbency to begin March 1, 1946, at a salary of $3,000 per calendar year.

Dr. A. J. Crutchfield, elected Instructor in Medicine, incumbency to begin April 1, 1946, at a salary of $3,000 per calendar year.

Dr. Ying-tang Hsu, appointed visiting professor of pathology and resident pathologist at the University of Virginia Hospital, at a salary of $1,500 for the year, from the Pathology funds.

Captain Samuel Hansford Hurt, Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective November 6, 1945, without salary from the University.

Lieutenant (jg) James Edgar Keys, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective November 6, 1945, without salary from the University.

Lieutenant Rogers VanVorst Waugh, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective November 29, 1945, without salary from the University.

The following report of the Committee appointed on the Consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia was adopted:

The Committee on the Consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia wishes to make the following report:

The Act of February 22, 1944 (Acts 1944, Chapter 54, page 55), having become effective on June 24, 1944 provides that Mary Washington College shall be converted into a liberal arts college for women, the title of which shall be Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, with the same standards of admission and graduation as obtain for male students in the College of Arts and Sciences of the University located at Charlottesville, that the supervision, management, and control of the college shall pass from the State Board of Education to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the college shall thereafter be affiliated with the University of Virginia as an integral part thereof, and that this conversion shall be effected during a period not to exceed four years.

The Committee feels keenly that the above constitutes a mandate that Mary Washington College be converted into a liberal arts college for women of equal excellence in every respect as the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Virginia, that it maintain equal standards of scholarship, and that the physical plant, especially its laboratories and library be comparably staffed and equipped. The Qualifications of its faculty, also, should be equal to those of similar officers of instruction of the University, and salary scales therefore, must eventually be the same.

Since the conversion of Mary Washington College into a liberal arts college is the most important single item of its consolidation with the University, the Committee considered carefully the report of a faculty committee of the University to the Chancellor of Mary Washington College on its conversion into a college of liberal arts, also a report prepared by a committee of the Mary Washington faculty. In its tentative form our report was then submitted to these respective faculty committees for criticism and further suggestions, many of which were incorporated. The Chancellor and the President of Mary Washington attended the meetings of the Board Committee, and as a result of the joint discussions, that Committee now makes the following recommendations:

I. Curriculum Changes

That all of the specialized programs or curriculn be discontinued, and that Mary Washington College offer only the degree of Bachelor of Arts.

1\. That the Department of Education be discontinued since the law states that students shall not be-admitted to technical courses designed for the training of teachers, but that the course in the History and Philosophy of Education be retained and be offered in the Department of Psychology and Philosophy.

2\. That courses in home economics be discontinued excent such theory courses as may later be included in other departments.

3\. That credit courses in stenography, typewriting, and office practice be discontinued.

4\. That courses in library science be discontinued.

II. Entrance

1\. That fifteen units be required for admission of which three shall be in English, and two in mathematics. One of the latter may be in general or basic mathematics, but not in business mathematics or arithmetic. In cases of applicants from public highschools, full graduation is required for admission.

2\. That no credit be allowed for less than two units of the same foreigh language, or for more than four units in vocational subjects.

III. Degree Requirements

1\. That one hundred and eighty nine quarter hours, or one hundred and twenty-six semester hours of credit be required for the Bachelor of Arts degree of which nine quarter hours, or six semester hours must be in physical education.

2\. That only nine quarter hours, or six semester hours of work in physical education including hygiene be counted toward the degree.

3\. That credit for courses in applied art and applied musicle limited to an equal number of credits in theory courses taken in these respective fields.

4\. That other specific degree and major requirements be worked out by the faculty of Mary Washington College in accordance with the practice prevailing in the highest ranking liberal arts colleges for women, subject to the approval of the Rector and Board of Visitors.

IV. Courses of Instruction

1\. That the departmental type of organization be followed at Mary Washington College.

2\. That the President and Chancellor in consultation with the faculty work out details as to the number of departments, subjects of study to be included in each, and number and rank of necessary teaching personnel.

3\. That President Combs in Consultation with the Chancellor decide on new positions which are to be created, subject, of course, to the approval of the Rector and the Board of Visitors.

4\. That major programs be offered at present in Art, Biology, Chemistry, Dramatic Arts and Speech, Economics and Business Administration, English, French, German, History, Latin Mathematics, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and Spanish. That the College should not at present attempt to offer major programs in Geology, Greek, Italian, Physics, Portuguese, or Russian.

5\. It is further recommended that the quarter courses be replaced by session courses as soon as possible, or that the college be organized on a semester basis.

V. Faculty

1\. The faculty shall be a legislative body with final authority, under the Rector and Visitors to pass upon all academic regulations such as degree requirements, awards of honors, grading system, attendance regulations, rules of academic discipline, courses offered for credit toward degrees, and the granting of degrees.

We recommend that a committee on academic standards and legislation be constituted, and that it report to the faculty on any matters that may come before it.

We further recommend that all matters of academic legislation be referred to the faculty for action, and that the faculty be empowered to act with final authority, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

2\. That faculty salaries at Mary Washington College be rused gradually so as to be equal to salaries for comparable positions at the University of Virginia when the conversion shall have been completed.

3\. For the coming biennium we recommend the following faculty salary scale:

Instructors from $1800 to $2300

Assistant Professors from $2400 to $2900

Associate Professors from $3000 to $3400

Professors from $3500 to $4300

We commend the following statement made by President Newcomb in his Budget Requests of the University of Virginia for the Biennium 1946-1948 and recommend that it apply to the faculty of Mary Washington College, also:

"Automatic Increases. The one undertaking that would do more to strengthen the faculty of the University, hearten and encourage the best talent to stay, and enable us to attract finer scholars to our teaching staff would be a return of the Automatic Increase in Salary Schedule, abandoned with the session of 1932-33 because of the depression. It provided for small increases in salary, within rent, based upon length and quality of service....It should be brought back into effect beginning with the session of 1946-47.... I cannot too strongly urge upon the Governor and the Budget Commission the resumption of this automatic Salary Schedule, because I am convinced that its re-establishment would be of greater value to the University as a training and research institution than any other one thing that we could possibly do. The staff richly deserves these increases, and they should be provided."

4\. We assume that the Rector and Board of Visitors have a right to continue tenure of professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors from year to year until such time as the consolidation of Mary Washington with the University has been completed (June 24, 1948), and recommend that President Combs be authorized to renew faculty contracts from year to year until that time, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

We recommend that after June 24, 1942, the same faculty tenure be established at Mary Washington College as obtains at the University of Virginia, Viz.,

Instructors - one year

Assistant Professors - three years

Associate and Full Professors - indefinite or life tenure

Acting Professors, Acting Associate, and Acting Assistant Professors - one year

5\. That departmental employees giving instruction in music on a fee basis only, shall not be considered members of the faculty.

6\. That a Director of Admission be appointed.

VI. Library

We recognize the fact that an educational institution is seriously handicaped without an adequate library service. As a college of liberal arts, the library facilities of Mary Washington must be improved. We, therefore, recommend that provision be made in its budget for an annual library appropriation of at least $50,000, to be used for increases in library personnel, for the purchase of books and magazines, for binding, equipment and et cetera under the direction of the librarian.

Finally, we recommend that a standing committee be appointed to report to the Rector and Board of Visitors from time to time on matters connected with the conversion of Mary Washington College into a college of liberal arts, and on its consolidation with the University.

Of necessity this report deals only with the broad phases of the conversion. Many details will have to be worked out by the administration and faculty of Mary Washington College. The Committee leaves the responsibility for this in the able hands of the Chancellor and of the President of the College.

The Committee realizes that the success of the conversion of Mary Washington College into the best type of liberal arts college for women depends on the full cooperation of students, faculty, administration, Rector and Visitors, and we urge that all work together to carry out not only the letter, but the spirit of the law to the end that we keep faith with the women of the state, and with those who envisioned for them this new Mary Washington as a integral part of our great University.

Report of Committee on Purchase of Barham Property.

At a meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, held on the 10th of November, 1945, a committee composed of the Rector, the President and the Attorney for the Board was directed to continue negotiations with Mr. Charles Barham, Jr., in connection with the purchase of the property consisting of 9.27 acres situated on the west side of Route adjoining the property recently purchased by the University from the estate of the late Eugene Massie, title to which is now held by Mrs. Emmalou Barham, wife of said Charles Barham, Jr., and offer having been made by Mr. and Mrs. Barham to sell this property to the University at the price of $1500.00 an acre, or a total of $13,05.00 for the whole tract.

Your Committee begs to report that upon furhter conference with Mr. Barham it was found that he was unwilling to make any reduction in this price. Your Committee then had an independent appraisal of the property made by Mr. C. T. O'Neill, Vice-President and Trust Officer of National Bank and Trust Company at Charlottesville, and Mr. George Barkley, one of the leading real estate brokers of Charlottesville. A copy of the report made by these appraisers is attached hereto from which it will be seen that they estimate the value of the property in question to be $15,000.00

Upon consideration of the whole situation surrounding these negotiations, your Committee respectfully reports that in their opinion Mr. Barham's offer to sell the property to the University at the price of $13,905.00 should be accepted.

Respectfully submitted,

R. Gray Williams Rector

J. L. Newcomb President

W. Allan Perkins Attorney for Board

At your request we have made a personal examination of the property owned by Mr. Charles Barham, Jr., situated on the west side of Route 29, just north of the C. & O. Railway, containing 9.27 acr more or less, and we believe a fair price for said property to be $15,000.00

A report of the Committee heretofore appointed at the meeting of this Board held on November 10, 1945, to make further investigation with reference to purchase of the 9.27 acres on the west side of Route 29 owned by Mrs. Emmalou Barham and Charles Barham, Jr., her husband, was presented to this meeting, in which report this Committee recommends the acceptance of the offer heretofore made by Mr. and Mrs. Barham to the Board to sell the property at $1500.00 per acre, or a total of $13,935.00 for the 9.29 acres. After a discussion of the situation, it was ordered that the report of said Committee be spread as a part of the minutes of this meeting, and it was, thereupon,

RESOLVED, that the offer of Charles Barham, Jr., and Mrs. Emmalou Barham, his wife, to sell said tract of land to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia at the price of $13935.00 is hereby accepted. And the Attorney for the University is directed to proceed to examine title to said property and take such other steps as may be necessary to close the transaction if title is found free of exceptions.

The Board of Managers of the Alumni Association presented the following resolution of the said Board, adopted November 9, 1945, which was considered and approved in the resolution appended hereto.

"WHEREAS, it appears that a number of concessions are not being operated at the University without the maximum benefit therefrom to the student body, and that the revenues therefrom are being applied for various purposes, and

WHEREAS, it appears desirable that all such concessions should be operated with the sanction and under the supervision and control of the University administration, and that all revenues therefrom should be applied for the benefit of the student body by the establishment of scholarships, or otherwise;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That the Board of Managers request the Board of Visitors to compile and make available to the Board of Managers all information with respect to such concessions, or authorize the Board of Managers, on behalf of the Board of Visitors, to compile and submit to the Board of Visitors all such information to the end that, after proper study and consideration by the Board of Visitors, such concessions may be placed under such supervision and control and the revenues therefrom be applied as aforesaid."

Your Committee appointed to make a study of and recommendations about compensation to certain members of the clinical staff in the Department of Medicine desires to report as follows:

That, as a temporary arrangement for one year only, namely from July 1, 1945, through June 30, 1946, the following plan be approved.

1\. That a certain percentage of the current earnings of each clinical school be set aside for the operation of the school, the precise percentage to be fixed by your Committee after further consultation with the schools in question, but in each case the amount so set aside shall be sufficient for the ordinary maintenance of the said school.

2\. From the remaining funds members of the clinical staff may receive the amounts now permitted, which cannot in any case under the present arrangement exceed $15,000 in salary and fees.

3\. Any remaining surplus earnings shall be divided as follows - 60% to the department for increased compensation to members of the several staffs and 40% to be set aside for the schools' used as a reserve fund for research, additional instructors, etc.

4\. A committee in each school consisting of the Dean of the Department of Medicine, the head of the school and the senior associate, shall be empowered to allocate the surplus fund, under 3 above, among the staff members.

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the above plan be and is hereby approved.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Committee be continued and its scope broadened to cover a study of the entire Medical Department, bringing into this Board such recommendations as the Committee may consider desirable, including any changes or modifications in the plan approved above.

Request of Eggers and Higgins, architects for the new dormitories, cafeteria and student union buildings for additional fees on account of changes in plans etc., was disposed of by a resolution authorizing the President to take the matter up with the proper State authorities, and after their decision, the President was authorized to act.

The meeting then adjourned,

The Committee on the Consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia wishes to make the following report:

The Act of February 22, 1944 (Acts 1944, Chapter 54, page 55), having become effective on June 24, 1944 provides that Mary Washington College shall be converted into a liberal arts college for women, the title of which shall be Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, with the same standards of admission and graduation as obtain for male students in the College of Arts and Sciences of the University located at Charlottesville, that the supervision, management, and control of the college shall pass from the State Board of Education to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the college shall thereafter be affiliated with the University of Virginia as an integral part thereof, and that this conversion shall be effected during a period not to exceed four years.

The Committee feels keenly that the above constitutes a mandate that Mary Washington College be converted into a liberal arts college for women of equal excellence in every respect as the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Virginia, that it maintain equal standards of scholarship, and that the physical plant, especially its laboratories and library be comparably staffed and equipped. The Qualifications of its faculty, also, should be equal to those of similar officers of instruction of the University, and salary scales therefore, must eventually be the same.

Since the conversion of Mary Washington College into a liberal arts college is the most important single item of its consolidation with the University, the Committee considered carefully the report of a faculty committee of the University to the Chancellor of Mary Washington College on its conversion into a college of liberal arts, also a report prepared by a committee of the Mary Washington faculty. In its tentative form our report was then submitted to these respective faculty committees for criticism and further suggestions, many of which were incorporated. The Chancellor and the President of Mary Washington attended the meetings of the Board Committee, and as a result of the joint discussions, that Committee now makes the following recommendations:

I. Curriculum Changes

That all of the specialized programs or curriculn be discontinued, and that Mary Washington College offer only the degree of Bachelor of Arts.

1\. That the Department of Education be discontinued since the law states that students shall not be-admitted to technical courses designed for the training of teachers, but that the course in the History and Philosophy of Education be retained and be offered in the Department of Psychology and Philosophy.

2\. That courses in home economics be discontinued excent such theory courses as may later be included in other departments.

3\. That credit courses in stenography, typewriting, and office practice be discontinued.

4\. That courses in library science be discontinued.

II. Entrance

1\. That fifteen units be required for admission of which three shall be in English, and two in mathematics. One of the latter may be in general or basic mathematics, but not in business mathematics or arithmetic. In cases of applicants from public highschools, full graduation is required for admission.

2\. That no credit be allowed for less than two units of the same foreigh language, or for more than four units in vocational subjects.

III. Degree Requirements

1\. That one hundred and eighty nine quarter hours, or one hundred and twenty-six semester hours of credit be required for the Bachelor of Arts degree of which nine quarter hours, or six semester hours must be in physical education.

2\. That only nine quarter hours, or six semester hours of work in physical education including hygiene be counted toward the degree.

3\. That credit for courses in applied art and applied musicle limited to an equal number of credits in theory courses taken in these respective fields.

4\. That other specific degree and major requirements be worked out by the faculty of Mary Washington College in accordance with the practice prevailing in the highest ranking liberal arts colleges for women, subject to the approval of the Rector and Board of Visitors.

IV. Courses of Instruction

1\. That the departmental type of organization be followed at Mary Washington College.

2\. That the President and Chancellor in consultation with the faculty work out details as to the number of departments, subjects of study to be included in each, and number and rank of necessary teaching personnel.

3\. That President Combs in Consultation with the Chancellor decide on new positions which are to be created, subject, of course, to the approval of the Rector and the Board of Visitors.

4\. That major programs be offered at present in Art, Biology, Chemistry, Dramatic Arts and Speech, Economics and Business Administration, English, French, German, History, Latin Mathematics, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and Spanish. That the College should not at present attempt to offer major programs in Geology, Greek, Italian, Physics, Portuguese, or Russian.

5\. It is further recommended that the quarter courses be replaced by session courses as soon as possible, or that the college be organized on a semester basis.

V. Faculty

1\. The faculty shall be a legislative body with final authority, under the Rector and Visitors to pass upon all academic regulations such as degree requirements, awards of honors, grading system, attendance regulations, rules of academic discipline, courses offered for credit toward degrees, and the granting of degrees.

We recommend that a committee on academic standards and legislation be constituted, and that it report to the faculty on any matters that may come before it.

We further recommend that all matters of academic legislation be referred to the faculty for action, and that the faculty be empowered to act with final authority, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

2\. That faculty salaries at Mary Washington College be rused gradually so as to be equal to salaries for comparable positions at the University of Virginia when the conversion shall have been completed.

3\. For the coming biennium we recommend the following faculty salary scale:

Instructors from $1800 to $2300

Assistant Professors from $2400 to $2900

Associate Professors from $3000 to $3400

Professors from $3500 to $4300

We commend the following statement made by President Newcomb in his Budget Requests of the University of Virginia for the Biennium 1946-1948 and recommend that it apply to the faculty of Mary Washington College, also:

"Automatic Increases. The one undertaking that would do more to strengthen the faculty of the University, hearten and encourage the best talent to stay, and enable us to attract finer scholars to our teaching staff would be a return of the Automatic Increase in Salary Schedule, abandoned with the session of 1932-33 because of the depression. It provided for small increases in salary, within rent, based upon length and quality of service....It should be brought back into effect beginning with the session of 1946-47.... I cannot too strongly urge upon the Governor and the Budget Commission the resumption of this automatic Salary Schedule, because I am convinced that its re-establishment would be of greater value to the University as a training and research institution than any other one thing that we could possibly do. The staff richly deserves these increases, and they should be provided."

4\. We assume that the Rector and Board of Visitors have a right to continue tenure of professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors from year to year until such time as the consolidation of Mary Washington with the University has been completed (June 24, 1948), and recommend that President Combs be authorized to renew faculty contracts from year to year until that time, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

We recommend that after June 24, 1942, the same faculty tenure be established at Mary Washington College as obtains at the University of Virginia, Viz.,

Instructors - one year

Assistant Professors - three years

Associate and Full Professors - indefinite or life tenure

Acting Professors, Acting Associate, and Acting Assistant Professors - one year

5\. That departmental employees giving instruction in music on a fee basis only, shall not be considered members of the faculty.

6\. That a Director of Admission be appointed.

VI. Library

We recognize the fact that an educational institution is seriously handicaped without an adequate library service. As a college of liberal arts, the library facilities of Mary Washington must be improved. We, therefore, recommend that provision be made in its budget for an annual library appropriation of at least $50,000, to be used for increases in library personnel, for the purchase of books and magazines, for binding, equipment and et cetera under the direction of the librarian.

Finally, we recommend that a standing committee be appointed to report to the Rector and Board of Visitors from time to time on matters connected with the conversion of Mary Washington College into a college of liberal arts, and on its consolidation with the University.

Of necessity this report deals only with the broad phases of the conversion. Many details will have to be worked out by the administration and faculty of Mary Washington College. The Committee leaves the responsibility for this in the able hands of the Chancellor and of the President of the College.

The Committee realizes that the success of the conversion of Mary Washington College into the best type of liberal arts college for women depends on the full cooperation of students, faculty, administration, Rector and Visitors, and we urge that all work together to carry out not only the letter, but the spirit of the law to the end that we keep faith with the women of the state, and with those who envisioned for them this new Mary Washington as a integral part of our great University.

At your request we have made a personal examination of the property owned by Mr. Charles Barham, Jr., situated on the west side of Route 29, just north of the C. & O. Railway, containing 9.27 acr more or less, and we believe a fair price for said property to be $15,000.00

The Committee on the Consolidation of Mary Washington College with the University of Virginia wishes to make the following report:

The Act of February 22, 1944 (Acts 1944, Chapter 54, page 55), having become effective on June 24, 1944 provides that Mary Washington College shall be converted into a liberal arts college for women, the title of which shall be Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, with the same standards of admission and graduation as obtain for male students in the College of Arts and Sciences of the University located at Charlottesville, that the supervision, management, and control of the college shall pass from the State Board of Education to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, that the college shall thereafter be affiliated with the University of Virginia as an integral part thereof, and that this conversion shall be effected during a period not to exceed four years.

The Committee feels keenly that the above constitutes a mandate that Mary Washington College be converted into a liberal arts college for women of equal excellence in every respect as the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Virginia, that it maintain equal standards of scholarship, and that the physical plant, especially its laboratories and library be comparably staffed and equipped. The Qualifications of its faculty, also, should be equal to those of similar officers of instruction of the University, and salary scales therefore, must eventually be the same.

Since the conversion of Mary Washington College into a liberal arts college is the most important single item of its consolidation with the University, the Committee considered carefully the report of a faculty committee of the University to the Chancellor of Mary Washington College on its conversion into a college of liberal arts, also a report prepared by a committee of the Mary Washington faculty. In its tentative form our report was then submitted to these respective faculty committees for criticism and further suggestions, many of which were incorporated. The Chancellor and the President of Mary Washington attended the meetings of the Board Committee, and as a result of the joint discussions, that Committee now makes the following recommendations:

I. Curriculum Changes

That all of the specialized programs or curriculn be discontinued, and that Mary Washington College offer only the degree of Bachelor of Arts.

1\. That the Department of Education be discontinued since the law states that students shall not be-admitted to technical courses designed for the training of teachers, but that the course in the History and Philosophy of Education be retained and be offered in the Department of Psychology and Philosophy.

2\. That courses in home economics be discontinued excent such theory courses as may later be included in other departments.

3\. That credit courses in stenography, typewriting, and office practice be discontinued.

4\. That courses in library science be discontinued.

II. Entrance

1\. That fifteen units be required for admission of which three shall be in English, and two in mathematics. One of the latter may be in general or basic mathematics, but not in business mathematics or arithmetic. In cases of applicants from public highschools, full graduation is required for admission.

2\. That no credit be allowed for less than two units of the same foreigh language, or for more than four units in vocational subjects.

III. Degree Requirements

1\. That one hundred and eighty nine quarter hours, or one hundred and twenty-six semester hours of credit be required for the Bachelor of Arts degree of which nine quarter hours, or six semester hours must be in physical education.

2\. That only nine quarter hours, or six semester hours of work in physical education including hygiene be counted toward the degree.

3\. That credit for courses in applied art and applied musicle limited to an equal number of credits in theory courses taken in these respective fields.

4\. That other specific degree and major requirements be worked out by the faculty of Mary Washington College in accordance with the practice prevailing in the highest ranking liberal arts colleges for women, subject to the approval of the Rector and Board of Visitors.

IV. Courses of Instruction

1\. That the departmental type of organization be followed at Mary Washington College.

2\. That the President and Chancellor in consultation with the faculty work out details as to the number of departments, subjects of study to be included in each, and number and rank of necessary teaching personnel.

3\. That President Combs in Consultation with the Chancellor decide on new positions which are to be created, subject, of course, to the approval of the Rector and the Board of Visitors.

4\. That major programs be offered at present in Art, Biology, Chemistry, Dramatic Arts and Speech, Economics and Business Administration, English, French, German, History, Latin Mathematics, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and Spanish. That the College should not at present attempt to offer major programs in Geology, Greek, Italian, Physics, Portuguese, or Russian.

5\. It is further recommended that the quarter courses be replaced by session courses as soon as possible, or that the college be organized on a semester basis.

V. Faculty

1\. The faculty shall be a legislative body with final authority, under the Rector and Visitors to pass upon all academic regulations such as degree requirements, awards of honors, grading system, attendance regulations, rules of academic discipline, courses offered for credit toward degrees, and the granting of degrees.

We recommend that a committee on academic standards and legislation be constituted, and that it report to the faculty on any matters that may come before it.

We further recommend that all matters of academic legislation be referred to the faculty for action, and that the faculty be empowered to act with final authority, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

2\. That faculty salaries at Mary Washington College be rused gradually so as to be equal to salaries for comparable positions at the University of Virginia when the conversion shall have been completed.

3\. For the coming biennium we recommend the following faculty salary scale:

Instructors from $1800 to $2300

Assistant Professors from $2400 to $2900

Associate Professors from $3000 to $3400

Professors from $3500 to $4300

We commend the following statement made by President Newcomb in his Budget Requests of the University of Virginia for the Biennium 1946-1948 and recommend that it apply to the faculty of Mary Washington College, also:

"Automatic Increases. The one undertaking that would do more to strengthen the faculty of the University, hearten and encourage the best talent to stay, and enable us to attract finer scholars to our teaching staff would be a return of the Automatic Increase in Salary Schedule, abandoned with the session of 1932-33 because of the depression. It provided for small increases in salary, within rent, based upon length and quality of service....It should be brought back into effect beginning with the session of 1946-47.... I cannot too strongly urge upon the Governor and the Budget Commission the resumption of this automatic Salary Schedule, because I am convinced that its re-establishment would be of greater value to the University as a training and research institution than any other one thing that we could possibly do. The staff richly deserves these increases, and they should be provided."

4\. We assume that the Rector and Board of Visitors have a right to continue tenure of professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and instructors from year to year until such time as the consolidation of Mary Washington with the University has been completed (June 24, 1948), and recommend that President Combs be authorized to renew faculty contracts from year to year until that time, subject to the approval of the Rector and Visitors.

We recommend that after June 24, 1942, the same faculty tenure be established at Mary Washington College as obtains at the University of Virginia, Viz.,

Instructors - one year

Assistant Professors - three years

Associate and Full Professors - indefinite or life tenure

Acting Professors, Acting Associate, and Acting Assistant Professors - one year

5\. That departmental employees giving instruction in music on a fee basis only, shall not be considered members of the faculty.

6\. That a Director of Admission be appointed.

VI. Library

We recognize the fact that an educational institution is seriously handicaped without an adequate library service. As a college of liberal arts, the library facilities of Mary Washington must be improved. We, therefore, recommend that provision be made in its budget for an annual library appropriation of at least $50,000, to be used for increases in library personnel, for the purchase of books and magazines, for binding, equipment and et cetera under the direction of the librarian.

Finally, we recommend that a standing committee be appointed to report to the Rector and Board of Visitors from time to time on matters connected with the conversion of Mary Washington College into a college of liberal arts, and on its consolidation with the University.

Of necessity this report deals only with the broad phases of the conversion. Many details will have to be worked out by the administration and faculty of Mary Washington College. The Committee leaves the responsibility for this in the able hands of the Chancellor and of the President of the College.

The Committee realizes that the success of the conversion of Mary Washington College into the best type of liberal arts college for women depends on the full cooperation of students, faculty, administration, Rector and Visitors, and we urge that all work together to carry out not only the letter, but the spirit of the law to the end that we keep faith with the women of the state, and with those who envisioned for them this new Mary Washington as a integral part of our great University.

At your request we have made a personal examination of the property owned by Mr. Charles Barham, Jr., situated on the west side of Route 29, just north of the C. & O. Railway, containing 9.27 acr more or less, and we believe a fair price for said property to be $15,000.00
