---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1945'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1945) May 4, 1945
============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 4, 1945

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

DEATH OF DR. W. D. HADEN:MEMORIAL TO DR. WILLIAM DANDRIDGE HADENCONSIDERATION OF PRELIMINARY PLANS FOR NEW BUILDINGS:ARCHITECTS CHOSEN FOR WOMEN'S GROUP:RESIGNATIONS:PROMOTIONS:ELECTIONS:SEWARD FOREST MATTER:CREDENTIALS OF PERSONS PROPOSED FOR ELECTION TO THE FACULTY, AND LIST OF APPLICANTS FOR RYAN SCHOLARSHIPS BE FURNISHED MEMBERS OF THE BOARD TWO WEEKS PRIOR TO THEIR APPOINTMENT:ASSIGNMENT OF PAVILION I WEST LAWN:ASSIGNMENT OF THE SNAVELY RESIDENCE:CHANNING W. DANIEL COMMUNICATION:LAMBETH PROPERTY:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors was held on this date in the office of the President at 11 o'clock, with the following present: The Rector R. Gray Williams, Visitors Lewis C. Williams, Christopher B. Garnett, Edward C. Anderson, Mrs. O. A. Calcott, Mrs. Phoebe E. Willis, Mrs. Bertha P. Wailes, and Richard A. Carrington, Jr., President Newcomb and Governor Colgate W. Darden, Jr. Also present were Messrs. Eggers and Young of the firm of Eggers & Higgins, architects for the new buildings.

The President announced to the meeting the death of Dr. W. D. Haden, a member of the Board, which occurred on April 8, 1945. The Rector was requested to prepare resolutions with respect to his services as a member of the Board.

Dr. William Dandridge Haden served as a member of this Board from July, 1944 until his death, at the University Hospital, on the morning of April 8, 1945, after an extended heart illness.

Dr. Haden was a valuable and efficient member of this Board and his wise counsel was appreciated. He was active in the general work of the Board, and was a member of its Finance Committee.

Dr. Haden was a leader in the civic and business life of Charlottesville. He was President of the National Bank and Trust Company; was Mayor of Charlottesville for three terms, and was a practitioner of medicine for over twenty years.

He was a native of Fluvanna County, son of the late Eldridge G. Haden, who served two terms as Mayor of Charlottesville. His mother was the former Miss Martha Douglas Early, of Campbell County. After attending public schools in Fluvanna and Campbell Counties, he entered the University of Virginia and was graduated from the medical department in 1910. Following a postgraduate course at Johns Hopkins, he returned to Charlottesville, where he successfully practiced his profession for twenty-three years. In 1933 he gave up his practice to accept the presidency of the National Bank and Trust Company.

Dr. Haden was elected a member of the city council, on September 1, 1930, and two years later was chosen vice-president of that body. In September, 1934, he was elected mayor and, at the close of his term, was re-elected to serve another two years. In the fall of 1940 he was again named mayor, succeeding George T. Huff. Throughout his twelve years on the city commission he played an important part in the city's development along many lines.

In July, 1944, Dr. Haden was appointed by Governor Darden as a member of the Board of Visitors of the University to succeed the late Hollis Rinehart. Following the expiration of Mr. Rinehart's term, Dr. Haden was again appointed for a full four-year term.

Dr. Haden was connected with various business enterprises. He was president of the Martha Jefferson Hospital; vice-president of the Jackson Park Hotel Corporation, which owns the Monticello Hotel, and a director of the Jefferson-Lafavette Theatres. He was treasurer of the Virginia Cancer Foundation, and a member of several medical associations, county, state and national. He was a member of Charlottesville Lodge, No. 389, B.P.O.E.; a member of the Redland Club, and the Farmington Country Club.

Dr. Haden married Miss Sallie C. Pugh, daughter of the late Llewellyn and Josephine Randolph Pugh, of New Orleans, Louisiana. She survives, with four children; Mrs. Sallie H. Yon, wife of Lieutenant-Commander Joseph L. Yon, United States Navy, now in the South Pacific area; Llewellyn P. Haden, of this city; Dr. W. D. Haden, Jr., United States Navy, now stationed in Washington, D. C.; and Mrs. Elizabeth Catherine Smith, wife of Lieutenant William Massie Smith, United States Marine Corps Reserve, now somewhere in the Pacific. He also leaves a sister, Mrs. Anna D. Scruggs, and a brother, Abner E. Haden, both residents of Charlottesville.

Dr. Haden commanded the respect and regard of every member of this Board, and his death has come at a time when his usefulness had broadened and his public service had developed. Each member of this Board desires to express appreciation of Dr. Haden, sympathy for those nearest and dearest to him and, to this end, this Memorial is directed to be spread upon the minutes of this Board and a copy is directed to be sent to Mrs. Haden.

The special business before the meeting was the consideration of preliminary plans for location of certain of the proposed new buildings. The locations selected for the various buildings were given careful study during which the President invited the local Building Committee to give their views thereon. The main consideration was given the location of the Women's Buildings, and it was decided that they be located at the point shown on the plans - northwest of Scott Stadium, and the architects were instructed to move the cafeteria forward nearer the pond, and open up the grouping of the dormitories to give more air around them.

On motion, it was voted that Eggers & Higgins be selected as the architects for the Women's Dormitory group.

The President presented the resignations of Mr. Herman Carl Hesse, Professor of Engineering Drawing, effective March 1, 1945, and Mr. Thomas Hayhurst Evans, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective April 1, 1945.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED, that the resignations of these members of the faculty be and they are hereby accepted with regret. These gentlemen have carried forward their work here with devotion and skill, and the Rector and Visitors wish for them success and happiness in their new fields.

Upon the recommendation of the President the following promotions and elections were voted:

Mr. Frank Wirtley Wheeler, Acting Associate Professor of Civil Engineering to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, without change in salary, effective July 1, 1945.

Dr. Alfred P. Fernbach, Instructor in Political Science, be appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Political Science, effective July 1, 1945, at a salary of $2800 for the session.

Lt. (jg) George W. Connelly, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, without salary from the University, effective April 2, 1945.

Lt. Harold D. Wedeman, Assistant Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, without salary from the University, effective April 23, 1945.

The President presented to the Board a communication from Mr. Alfred Akerman, Manager of the Seward Forest stating that he had personally acquired certain tracts of forest adjoining the Seward tract, which he desired to transfer to the University at the prices paid therefor, approximately $3660. The matter was referred to the Finance Committee with power to act.

Upon the request of members of the Board for advance information concerning persons to be proposed for appointment to the faculty, and for a list of the applicants for the Thomas F. Ryan Scholarships, the President stated that such information would be furnished to the members.

Pavilion I, West Lawn, now being vacated by Professor W. H. Faulkner, was assigned to Professor Tipton R. Snavely. (Not accepted)

The President was authorized to assign the residence now occupied by Professor Snavely on Monroe Hill, if and when vacated.

The Rector read a letter from Channing W. Daniel, offering his services as investment counsel for the University's endowment funds. Same was referred to the Finance Committee.

If the location of the proposed student union building in connection with the new dormitory facilities would require the Lambeth property to be used to accommodate said building, the President was authorized to confer with Mrs. Lambeth in the matter.

The meeting then adjourned.
