---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1950'
month: 8
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1950) August 7, 1950
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

August 7, 1950

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

ANNUAL BUDGETBudget CalendarATHLETICSBoxingWOMEN'S DORMITORYNEGRO APPLICANT FOR LAW SCHOOL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Start Working Papers

About April 15

President's Review

April 22 - May 1

Send to Finance Committee

Not later than May 5

Review of Budget by Finance Committee with President and Bursar

Prior to May 19

Mail to Board Members

Not later than 3 days prior to June Meeting

Bidder

Type of Work

Amount

Doyle and Russell Richmond, Virginia

General Construction

$378,830

William H. White, Jr., Inc. Richmond, Virginia

Plumbing, Heating, and Ventilating

48,750

Godwin-Holstead Electric Co. Charlottesville, Virginia

Electrical

16,600

On call of the Rector, a special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Visitors Anderson, Barksdale, Emmett, Garnett, Gay, Howard, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Willis. Absent: Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Carrington and Gravatt

The minutes of the meeting of July 14, 1950, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

It was resolved that the following budget calendar be adopted for the preparation of the annual budget of the University

It was resolved that the Rector be authorized to appoint a special committee to study the Athletic policy of the University. Acting under this resolution, the Rector appointed the following committee. Mr. Talbott, Chairman; Mr. Anderson, Mr. Mears.

The following resolution was adopted

RESOLVED that any action which the Board may take concerning boxing will not affect the schedule for the session 1950-51.

The President was authorized to sign the following contracts for the Women's Dormitory, which contracts in the opinion of the Board represent the lowest and best bids on this project and have the approval of the architect:

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED, That the matter of the application of Gregory Swanson for admission to the Law School of the University be referred to Mr. Allan Perkins, Attorney for the University, with the request that, in the event of litigation, he handle the matter of its defense in collaboration with the Attorney-General.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned
