---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1951'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1951) September 13, 1951
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 13, 1951

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

On call of the Rector, a hearing by the Board of Visitors was held on this date at 8 p. m. in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, for the purpose of hearing Messrs. Alfred Fernbach and Charles A. Micaud, Associate Professors in the School of Foreign Affairs. The following were present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, Visitors Anderson, Carrington, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Willis. Absent: Visitors Barksdale and Garnett.

The record of this hearing is made a part of these minutes by reference, in accordance with the following resolution adopted by the Board on May 9, 1952

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the record of the hearings on the petition of Homer Richey, which hearings took place on May 11, June 7, July 12 and September 13, 1951, not be spread in full on the permanent Minute Book, but that the record of these hearings be made a part of the minutes by reference.
