---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1952'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1952) June 13, 1952
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 13, 1952

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

7 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEESGIFTSRETIREMENTSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSPROMOTIONSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSFINANCE COMMITTEEREPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEERESIGNATION OF DR. LIPPARDSELECTION OF A DEAN FOR MEDICAL SCHOOLSUHLING CANCER FUNDUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSV CLUB SCHOLARSHIPSCHOOL AND DEPARTMENTUNIVERSITY HOSPITALEASEMENT TO THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLEREQUEST OF DR. DAVID C. WILSON FOR AN ADDITIONAL ROOMRETIREMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEESADMISSION OF CHARLOTTESVILLE & ALBEMARLE COUNTY GIRLS TO THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCESRETIREMENT OF FACULTY MEMBERSGRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESSBONUSCORRECTION IN TITLE OF MR. RAISZBUDGETMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSPROMOTIONSNAMING OF NEW BUILDINGSBUDGET
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Finance Committee

Mr. Gay, Chairman

Mr. Mears

Mr. Talbott

Buildings and Grounds Committee

Mrs. Smith, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

Mrs. Wailes

Mary Washington College Committee

Mrs. Wailes, Chairman

Mrs. Smith

Miss Wheeler

Mr. Howard

Athletics Committee

Mr. Talbott, Chairman

Mr. Gay

Mr. Coxe

Mr. Mears

Medical Committee

Dr. Emmett, Chairman

Mr. Howard Smith

Mr. Coxe

Mrs. Smith

Student Activities Committee

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman

Mr. Carrington

Judge Barksdale

From the Virginia Academy of Science, for equipment for the Observatory

$ 100.00

From the American Philosophical Society, a grant to Dr. Morris S. McKeehan, of the Anatomy Department

500.00

From the National Committee for Free Europe, to be applied toward the salary of Dr. Geza Teleki, Acting Associate Professor of Foreign Affairs, for the session of 1951-52

2,000.00

From the Bristol Community Chest Cancer Committee, for equipment to be used in cancer work by the Department of Internal Medicine

600.00

From the Seven Society, to be used by the President

77.77

From Mr. David Tennant Bryan and Mrs. Amanda Bryan Kane, books from the library of their father, John Stewart Bryan, valued at

6,068.33

From Mr. Samuel Bemiss, rare books valued at

425.00

From Mr. G. M. Alexander, of Lynchburg, a BOOK OF HOURS, of the Fifteenth Century, valued at

500.00

From the U. S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, for research under Dr. James C. Mace, of the Engineering Department

30,000.00

From the U. S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Roads, for work to be undertaken by the Bureau of Population and Economic Research

10,500.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for medical research by Dr. Chalmers L. Gemmill

8,476.79

From the National Bureau of Standards, U. S. Department of Commerce, for continued research by the University of Virginia Engineering Experiment Station, beginning July 1, 1952

100,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, Bureau of Ordnance, for research under Dr. J. W. Beams

60,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, Office of Naval Research, for continued research in astronomy by Dr. H. L. Alden

2,420.00

From the Department of the Navy, Office of Naval Research, for continued research in astronomy by Dr. H. L. Alden

1,320.00

From the Cole Steel Equipment Company, Inc., New York, for research by the University of Virginia Engineering Experiment Station

2,500.00

From the Concrete Building Units Company and Southern Light Weight Aggregate Company of Richmond, for certain research by the University of Virginia Engineering Experiment Station

$ 800.00

From the Department of the Army for research in physics under Dr. Frank L. Hereford

6,188.75

The annual meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia; Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Emmett, Gravatt, Howard, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Carrington and Gay

The minutes of the meeting of May 9, 1952, which had been copied and mailed to the members, were approved.

The Rector appointed the following committees.

The Board re-elected the Executive Committee as follows. The Rector, Mr. Black, Chairman, Mr. Gay, Mr. Carrington, and Mr. Mears

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants:

The following faculty members are retiring at the end of the session of 1951-52.

Dr. William E. Bray, Professor of Clinical Pathology and Director of the Clinical Laboratories, on the staff 44 years.

Dr. William Royall Smithey, Professor of Secondary Education, who has been on the staff since 1919.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay:

Dr. Fredson Bowers, Professor of English, for the session of 1952-53 in order to accept a Fulbright Fellowship for research abroad.

Dr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Professor of English in the Department of Engineering, to continue for another year with the Institute of Textile Technology.

Dr. Cecil A. Hutchinson, Assistant Professor of History, for the session of 1952-53, to do some writing.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted. We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

Dr. Charles G. Craddock, Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of June 30, 1952.

Dr. Jorge Basadre, Visiting Professor of Foreign Affairs, as of the end of the summer session of 1951-52.

Mr. John C. Collison, Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, as of the end of the session of 1951-52.

Dr. Robert A. Kelley, Assistant Professor in Urology, as of June 30, 1952, to enter military service.

Miss Ruth Mitchell, Instructor in Nursing, as of July 1, 1952.

Miss Annie Laurie Wyant, Instructor in Nursing as of June 15, 1952.

Dr. Clifford G. Gaddy, Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of June 30, 1952.

Dr. W. S. Gilmer, Instructor in Pathology, as of June 30, 1952.

Dr. Donald Ferguson, Instructor in Internal Medicine, as of June 30, 1952, to enter military service.

Miss Alice Mae Auciello, Instructor in Nursing, as of June 15, 1952.

The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:

Mr. Charles K. Woltz, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1952.

Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1952.

Mr. Laurens Rhinelander, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1952.

Mr. Mortimer Caplin, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, as of September, 1952.

Mr. James Edward May, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, to Associate Professor, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Oliver B. Bobbitt, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Clinical Pathology, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Frank J. Curran, Associate Professor, to Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Catherine M. Russell, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Wesley A. Volk, Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Gordon C. G. Thomas, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Fielding J. Crigler, Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Opthalmology, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. B. J. Chandler, Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Education, as of September, 1952.

Dr. James C. Mace, Associate Professor, to Professor of Electrical Engineering, as of September, 1952.

Mr. Douglas S. Ward, Acting Professor of Education, to Professor of Education, as of September, 1952.

Miss Mary Virginia Willson, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Alfred Burger, Associate Professor, to Professor of Chemistry, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, as of September, 1952.

Dr. David C. Yalden-Thomson, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to Associate Professor of Philosophy, as of September, 1952.

Mr. David B. Moyer, Instructor in Accounting, to Assistant Professor of Accounting, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Franz K. Mohr, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages, to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages, as of September, 1952.

Mr. Eldridge Roger Boyle, Jr., Assistant Professor of Drama, to Associate Professor of Drama, as of September, 1952.

Mr. George P. Wilson, Jr., Assistant Professor of Speech, to Associate Professor of Speech, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Arthur F. Stocker, Assistant Professor of Ancient Languages, to Associate Professor of Ancient Languages, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Frank L. Hereford, Associate Professor of Physics, to Professor of Physics, as of September, 1952.

Dr. Richard W. Garnett, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Robert Earl Swindler, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, as of September, 1952.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are elected to the faculty:

Mr. A. J. Gustin Priest, as Professor of Law, effective February 1, 1953, at a salary of $9,375.00.

Mr. Carl Dalton Lunsford, as Instructor in Chemistry, as of September, 1952, at a salary of $3,000.00

Mr. Theodore Turner, as Assistant Professor of Art, effective at the beginning of the session of 1952-53, at a salary of $3,800.00.

Mr. Albert H. Shuster, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education, at a salary of $2,000.00 for the calendar year from the University, the balance of his salary to be paid by the Albemarle County Public School System.

Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik, as Acting Assistant Professor of Microbiology, as of September 1, 1952, at an annual salary of $4,500.00.

Dr. Vincent P. Hollander, as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Coordinator of the cancer program as of January 1, 1953, at a salary of $9,500.00 a year, the entire salary to be paid from income on the Cancer Training Grant from the National Institute of Health.

Mr. John F. Hahn, as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, as of September, 1952, at a salary of $4,200.00.

Miss Rebecca Sue Craig, as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, effective at the beginning of the session of 1952-53, at a salary of $3,800.00.

Mr. Malcolm B. McCoy, as Assistant Professor of Speech, effective with the beginning of the session of 1952-53, at a salary of $3,800.00.

Dr. V. T. Thayer, as Visiting Professor of Education, part-time, beginning in September, 1952, at a salary of $3,000.00.

Dr. Charles A. Finnegan, as Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of December 1, 1952, at a salary of $9,500.00 during the first year, from earnings.

Mr. Arthur R. Bachrach, as Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry, at a salary of $5,500.00, to be paid from a grant for psychiatric teaching from the U. S. Public Health Service, as of July 1, 1952.

Dr. Cary Grayson Suter, as Instructor in Neurology and Psychiatry as of July 1, 1952, at a salary of $5,500.00 to be paid from departmental income.

Mrs. Harriet Chapman, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective July 1, 1952.

Miss Jewel Reaves, as Instructor in Nursing, effective June 15, 1952.

Miss Anne Pollok, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective June 1, 1952.

Miss Dorothy Dean Lucas, as Instructor in Nursing, as of June 16, 1952.

Dr. James H. Gary, as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective in September, 1952, at a salary of $4,300.00.

Mr. Thomas Park Hughes, as Instructor in English in the Department of Engineering, at a salary of $3,600.00.

Dr. Louis S. Graham, as Instructor in Pathology, effective July 1, 1952, at a salary of $3,800.00. This is a replacement for Dr. Walter S. Gilmer.

Dr. Norman F. Wyatt, as Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1952, at a salary of $4,200.00. This is a replacement for Dr. Donald Ferguson.

Mr. Jean M. Roberts, as Professor of Electrical Engineering, at a session salary of $7,500.00, effective in September, 1952. This is a replacement for Professor G. K. Carter.

Mr. Charles Nelson Gaylord, as Professor of Civil Engineering, effective in September, 1952, at a session salary of $7,500.00. This is a replacement for Professor Wheeler.

Mr. Norman C. Small, as Assistant Professor of Applied Mechanics, effective in September, 1952, at a salary of $4,200.00.

Dr. James V. Cunningham, as Assistant Professor of English, effective in September, 1952, at a session salary of $4,550.00.

Lieutenant Raymond M. Anderson as Associate Professor of Naval Science, at no salary from the University, effective in the summer of 1952. This is a replacement for Commander Burch, who is being detached.

Messrs. Wilkerson and Gunn, Vice Presidents of the State Planter's Bank, appeared before the Board and presented the annual report of the Consolidated Endowment Funds for the period January 25, 1951 through January 25, 1952. A copy of this report is filed with the minutes.

Mr. Gunn highlighted the report by pointing out that the earnings on the fund had declined from 4.77% in 1950 to 4.61% in 1951. This decline is due largely to elimination of year-end dividends by various companies in which the funds are invested. At the end of the year the market value of securities held in the fund was $765,000 greater than book value.

The distribution of the investments has changed as follows: in 1948 27% were common stocks; the year ending January 25, 1952, 41% were in common stocks. In preferred stocks the change represents a decrease from 1948 to this year of 6%, from 21% to 15%. In the same period, the holding of bonds has decreased from 50% to 44%.

Mr. Wilkerson stated that there had been a general shift in money rates in the United States. Prime money now earns 3% as compared with 2-1/2% prior to the Federal Reserve Board discontinuing its support of government bonds. The result is that you get 3-1/4 to 3.4% on AAA industrial bonds. In the adjustment, preferred stocks have dropped to bring their yield in line with other securities.

Mr. Wilkerson stated that he believed business was in a packing down period. He thought that with high taxes and increasing competition, profits would be squeezed, hence, the bank is looking for low cost producers in which to invest funds. For the present, it is recommended that investments be made in corporate bonds and preferreds with some additions to common stocks in which we already have an interest.

On behalf of the Board, The Rector thanked Mr. Gunn and Mr. Wilkerson and stated that he thought the Consolidated Endowment Fund was being excellently handled.

In the absence of Mr. Gay, Chairman of the Finance Committee, The Rector presented the report of the Finance Committee as set forth below.

"There is submitted herewith the annual report of State-Planters Bank and Trust Company, fiscal agent, of its management of the Consolidated Endowment Funds of the University for the period January 25, 1951, to January 25, 1952. I submit the following brief resume of this interesting report.

The original book value of the General Endowment Fund was $4,566,051.82 when taken over by the Bank in January of 1947. As of January 25, 1952, the adjusted book value is $5,775,187.36. There was realized from sales and redemption of securities during the past fiscal year $429,643.38, resulting in a net capital gain of $37,543.69, which is reported in the above mentioned adjusted book value of $5,775,187.36. Purchases of and subscriptions to securities during the year amounted to $607,452.14.

The gross adjusted income turned over by the Bank to the Bursar of the University aggregated $261,984.96, which when related to the average book value during 1951 (weighted average by months) represented a yield of 4.61%. The latter compares with an average yield of 4,26% for the year 1949, and 4.77% for the year 1950. The slightly lower average yield for 1951 is attributable largely to the decrease in the year-end extra dividends paid by Du Pont on the 5,688 shares owned by the University.

It is to be noted that the cost to the University in the handling of the Consolidated Funds (together with the three subsidiary accounts - Lalla Gresham Ball Scholarship Fund, McMurdo Loan Fund and the Doherty Foundation Fund) was approximately 19/100ths of 1% of the average book value and included custody of all securities, collection of all income, continuing supervision and review and monthly statements to the Bursar and the Finance Committee."

A resolution was adopted approving the Report of the Finance Committee.

President Darden reported that Yale University had offered Dr. Lippard the deanship of its Medical School, effective January 1, 1953. The President stated that he had asked Dr. Lippard if there was anything that the University of Virginia could do to retain him. Dr. Lippard told the President that he was an alumnus of Yale and was most anxious to return to his Alma Mater. Dr. Lippard's salary at Yale is to be $20,000 a year.

President Darden stated that he was appointing a committee to begin the search for a new dean and that Dr. Lippard would help in every way possible in the six months before his departure. Dr. Emmett stated that the salary of the dean should be increased to enable us to get a replacement for Dr. Lippard. He proposed that a part of the earnings of the Clinical Departments be set aside as a supplement to the salary which the State provides for the dean.

President Darden stated that he had discussed this possibility with Dr. Lippard who thought it inadvisable for the dean to be compensated from the earnings of the clinicians.

The President stated that he had received a letter from Mrs. Mary R. White requesting that the fund which she established known as the Mary S. Royster Fund be changed to the Mary S. Suhling Cancer Fund, in memory of her daughter, with the proviso that if at any time the income was no longer needed for cancer research, it could be used for research in some other field in the discretion of the Board. Also enclosed from Mr. and Mrs. White were securities with a market value of approximately $11,000 to be added to the fund. A resolution was adopted by the Board approving the change in the fund as set forth in Mrs. White's letter.

The Report of the Hospital Accounts Committee charging off $8,933.22 as uncollectible accounts was approved.

The President presented the following proposal for the establishment of a scholarship fund by the V Club:

"The V Club of the University of Virginia proposes to establish a tuition scholarship to be awarded to an entering undergraduate male student residing in Virginia, who has graduated from a Virginia public or private high school. The criteria which we wish to establish for this award are as follows:

1\. That the recipient of the award must rank scholastically in the upper half of his graduating class.

2\. That the recipient of the award shall have demonstrated outstanding athletic ability during his secondary school period.

3\. That the recipient of the award be a person of high moral character and that he manifest such personal qualities as to be, in the opinion of the awarding authorities, a credit to this institution and to the cause of collegiate athletics.

4\. That the recipient of the award demonstrate financial need.

The V Club desires to reserve the right to make primary nominations of candidates for this award. Final approval shall rest with the University and its appointed officials. Should none of the V Club's nominees be eligible for this award in the judgment of the University or should the V Club fail to nominate any candidate for this award, other qualified applicants may be considered for award."

A resolution was adopted approving the proposal.

President Darden pointed out that confusion constantly arose in this University because of the use of the term School and Department in exactly the opposite sense followed by other institutions. For example, we speak of the Department of Law and the School of Chemistry, and in other institutions the names would be School of Law and Department of Chemistry. The University Senate, at the request of the several faculties of the University, asked the President to present to the Board a proposal to change these names in accordance with nomenclature followed elsewhere. Thereupon, a resolution was adopted approving the change.

The President informed the Board that insufficient funds had been appropriated by the last Legislature to operate the hospital during the next biennium without a deficit. This deficit is estimated for the first year of the biennium to exceed $300,000. The President pointed out that unless additional funds were provided by the Governor, it would be necessary to close a sizeable part of the hospital. He has requested a study of this matter so that he can advise the Governor just what closing will be necessary.

Judge Howard Smith inquired if the hospital could not be turned over to some other State agency for operation to provide care for the indigents of the State.

Dr. Emmett said that he feels it is essential that the hospital be operated by the University to insure that facilities are provided to maintain the high standard of teaching in the Medical School. The President said that he had discussed with the dean the possibility of getting the State Welfare Department to operate the hospital but that Dr. Lippard had expressed the same sentiments as Dr. Emmett, that the separation of the hospital and Medical School would impair the quality of the teaching.

After discussion, a resolution was adopted requesting the Medical Committee to investigate the relationship of Medical Schools and State Hospitals in other states, exploring in particular the possibility of placing the University Hospital under the administration of some other

The President stated that the City Manager had requested an additional easement on Lambeth Field to install a larger pumping station which was needed to serve the Rugby Road area. This would simply be an enlargement of an easement granted by the Board in 1942. The request was granted, subject to the approval by the President of the particular site to be used for the pumping station and approval of the plans for the building, by the University.

The President presented a letter from Dr. David C. Wilson, who had been assigned the Lentz house on East Range, requesting that a student room on East Range be assigned to him as a study. The Board unanimously denied the request and asked the Secretary to write Dr. Wilson, advising him of the policy of the Board to return to student occupancy all rooms now assigned to pavilions.

With the adoption by the State Legislature of an Act making it compulsory for all State employees to be covered by Social Security and with the establishment of a Supplemental State Retirement System, it is now possible to require all administrative employees to retire upon reaching their seventieth birthday.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that all administrative employees shall retire on the first day of July after they shall have reached their respective seventieth birthdays, and all administrative employees who, as of this date, have passed their seventieth birthday shall retire on July 1, 1952.

The President informed the Board that Dr. McShane of the Mathematics Department had been offered the Chairmanship of the Department of Mathematics at the University of Minnesota, at a salary of $11,000. The Governor had authorized Mr. Darden to offer Mr. McShane $9,500 but Mr. McShane has raised a question which the President wished the Board to consider.

Under present University regulations, local girls are admitted to the Department of Education from high school, but they are not admitted to the College. Girls other than local girls must complete two years of college before admission, and may not enter the College. Mr. McShane raised the question whether or not the University would be willing to admit to the College the daughters of members of the faculty, as the cost of sending his daughters elsewhere for a liberal arts education would be quite sizeable and if he goes to the University of Minnesota they can live at home while studying.

The first question to be settled is whether the Board has authority, under State law, to admit local girls to the College. The Secretary was requested to secure an opinion from the Attorney for the University. Action on the matter was deferred until this opinion could be obtained.

The President stated that there was now before Congress a proposal to increase Social Security benefits and, at the same time, open up Social Security to certain categories not now covered, among such persons would be the faculty members of State supported institutions. He asked the Board to be thinking about the possibility, should this bill pass, of requiring faculty members to retire at 65 with annual extension until age 70 to be made in the discretion of the Board.

The President pointed out that the campaign to raise funds for the Graduate School was moving quite rapidly and unless there was objection he would like to start looking for a dean to head up the school.

A bonus of $500 for full professors, $400 for associate and assistant professors, and $300 for instructors will be paid for the session 1952-53 out of the $75,500 provided by the Governor, plus an additional $20,000 from University sources.

Mr. Erwin Raisz, who was elected Lecturer in Geography at the May meeting of the Board, should have been elected Acting Professor of Geography. The following resolution was adopted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Erwin Raisz be and he is hereby elected Acting Professor of Geography, part-time, for the session of 1952-53.

Enrollment is estimated to decline from approximately 3,300 to 3,000 for the 1952-53 session.

Total revenues are estimated at $5,499,905 and expenditures at $5,485,456, leaving a surplus of $14,449. We are carrying forward approximately $235,000 from this biennium representing tuition and fees owed us by the Veterans Administration and the Department of Defense which gives us an adequate reserve should our enrollment estimates be too high.

After discussion of various phases of the budget, a resolution was adopted approving the budget as presented.

The following resolutions were adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Miss Margery E. Arnold, Instructor in health and physical education, be and she is hereby promoted to Assistant Professor with an increase in salary from $3240 to $3540 for the academic year.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Fred E. Miller, Assistant Professor of economics and business administration, be and he is hereby promoted to Associate Professor with an increase in salary from $3960 to $4260 for the academic year.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Warren G. Keith, Associate Professor of history and Director of Admissions, be and he is hereby promoted to full Professor with an increase in salary from $4600 to $5200 for the academic year.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Robert F. Caverlee, part-time Instructor in English and social science, be and he is hereby promoted to part-time Assistant Professor with an increase in salary from $1700 to $2000 for the academic year.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Emil Schnellock, Assistant Professor of Art, be and he is hereby promoted to Associate Professor with an increase in salary from $3960 to $4260 for the academic year.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Miss Helen H. Schultz, Assistant Professor of chemistry, be and she is hereby promoted to Associate Professor with an increase in salary from $3780 to $4200.

The following resolution was adopted:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new Art Building be and the same is hereby named Gari Melchers Hall in honor of the late internationally-known artist who made his home in Fredericksburg and whose widow has donated to the State of Virginia his studio, paintings and other property located a short distance from the College.

The naming of the Music Building was referred to the Mary Washington Committee.

President Combs presented the budget for Mary Washington College which included the cost of living increase provided from an allocation of $22,000 by the Governor. Total income from all sources is estimated at $1,289,700 with off-setting expenditures in the same amount. The budget was approved with the request that President Combs try to secure increases in pay for Dean Alvey; Miss Stephenson, Dean of Students, and the Director of Food Services.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
