---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1953'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1953) December 22, 1953
==================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 22, 1953

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

2 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A special meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at Mary Washington College, Fredericksburg, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, Chancellor Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President M. L. Combs; Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Howard and Mears

After introducing to the Board Mr. Charles Craig, who remained in the room throughout the meeting and recorded in shorthand all testimony that was given, the Rector read aloud to the Board letters received from the following: Ruby C. Harris, an Instructor in the College, an anonymous parent of a student in the College, L. J. Houston, City Manager of Fredericksburg, Mrs. H. H. Smith of Fredericksburg, Mrs. Paul W. Davidson, an alumna, of Richmond, Marion Chauncey, Associate Professor of Music in the College, and Miss Gwenndolyn A. Beeler of the College faculty. All of these were filed with the Secretary.

Other letters, telegrams, and statements were received later in the day, too late to be read to the Board Copies were subsequently made of all of these, by direction of the Rector, and delivered to each member of the Board, as follows. Memorandum from the Social Director to the President, rules promulgated by the Social Director, Mrs. Dameron's typewritten transcript of her shorthand notes of the interview between Dr. Combs and Mrs. Jacobus, telegram from Frances Ramey Mooney of the history faculty, statement of policy signed by the Faculty Committee on the student newspaper, statement reciting the instances in which the Committee has advised the editors of "The Bullet" on specific items of publication, statement by three faculty members of the Joint Council Committee on the administration of the honor code, resolution in support of Dr. Combs signed by twenty-nine members of the faculty who were at the College during the Christmas recess, statement signed by Emil R. Schnellock, letters from Milton H. Stanbury and Charmenz S. Lenhart, a letter from Dean Alvey explaining his earlier report on the shifting of science classes for the visits of the legislators

The Board went into executive session to determine procedure and Mr. Gay was requested to undertake the lead in questioning all witnesses, but the Rector and Mr. Gay asked other members to interrupt with individual questions at any time

The Board went into regular session, and Dr. Combs was called, and invited to testify Prior to beginning his oral testimony, Dr. Combs handed to each member, and to the Secretary for the files, copies of two documents: (1) a three-page letter of December 22nd addressed by him to the Board, denying the charges made in the Rector's letter of December 12th (which Dr. Combs said he did not receive until late on Saturday, December 19th) and stating his attitude towards the College and its personnel, and (2) a memorandum entitled "Faculty Committees and their Functions, Session 1953-54", showing the exceptionally detailed way in which the administration of Mary Washington College is handled through committees of the faculty

Dr. Combs and each of the witnesses who followed him were cautioned by the Rector not to reveal what went on during his appearance before the Board, the Rector pointing out to Dr. Combs and to each of the other witnesses that the purpose of this admonition was to prevent damaging publicity to the College.

President Combs then addressed the Board for more than two hours, elaborating on his written statement and on other subjects. Before withdrawing from the room, he announced that Dr. Parkinson, Mrs. Payne, Mrs. Wade, and other members of the College staff were waiting to testify, some of them having voluntarily delayed their Christmas vacations for this purpose

The Board went into executive session to determine whether to cross examine Dr. Combs, and it was decided not to do so

The Board returned to regular session, and the following witnesses then came successively before the Board and were questioned regarding the incidents involving the five student waitresses, the dormitory hostess, Mrs. Jacobus, and other recent administrative affairs of the College Dr. B. L. Parkinson, Professor of Psychology and Education, Mrs. Mildred McGinnis, Supervisor of Waitresses, Mrs. Ruth S. Wade, Dean of Freshmen; Mrs. Ann M. Dameron, Secretary to the President, Mr. Pal Robison, Food Service Director, Mrs. Virginia Lawrence Payne, Social Director, and Mrs. Lefa Faulkner, Director of Dormitories.

Dr. Parkinson, appearing at the Board Room later in the day to deliver the faculty resolution and other papers, offered to bring in additional witnesses. Because the hour approached 6:00 p.m., the Board having sat since 10:00 a.m., without the usual luncheon recess, Visitors Coxe and Smith having already had to leave the meeting, it was decided that additional witnesses should not be heard at this time

After extensive discussion the Board resolved to continue the consideration of the charges against Dr. Combs at the regular Board meeting on January 8th. Chancellor Darden was asked to approach Dr. Combs in the meantime to see if he would concur in a voluntary readjustment of duties. It was proposed that under such a readjustment Dr. Combs should be relieved of administrative jurisdiction over the faculty and students of the College, and that, upon his adherence to this separation from administrative responsibility and authority, he would occupy a position of dignity at the College, with a title to be agreed upon, in which he would take charge of new construction, public relations, and such additional functions as the Chancellor might from time to time find appropriate to assign him in accordance with the prevailing state of Dr. Combs' health and his special talents and experience

On motion the meeting was then adjourned
