---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1953'
month: 9
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1953) September 11, 1953
===================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

September 11, 1953

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

8 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

APPOINTMENT OF SECRETARYGIFTSLEAVES OF ABSENCERESIGNATIONSPROMOTIONSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSCHANGE IN TITLEARMED FORCES INSTITUTEUNIVERSITY BUDGETUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSHOUSE A, DAWSON'S ROWRETIREMENT OF DEAN LEWIS"MONTEBELLO"SALE OF CARRIAGECARNEGIE CORPORATION REPORTSSECURITY CLEARANCE OF BOARD MEMBERSNOVEMBER MEETING - CHANGE OF DATEATLANTIC ATHLETIC CONFERENCECOMMITTEE ON SCHOLARSHIPSBAYLY-TIFFANY SCHOLARSHIPSSTUDENT AID FOUNDATIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE BUDGETRESIGNATIONPROMOTIONLEAVES OF ABSENCEELECTIONSCHANGE OF TITLEDISTRIBUTION OF ACADEMIC GRADES AND ANNUAL LIBRARY REPORT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Rotary International, for the Institute of Public Affairs

$ 1,000.00

From Mr. D. Tennant Bryan, his sister and his brother, two French Bibles, the 1904 Tissot Bible and the Bible Folichonne, valued at

150.00

From the National Committee for Free Europe, to be applied toward the salary of Dr. Geza Teleki for the session of 1953-54

2,400.00

From Mr. Austin D. Kilham, for the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs

$ 200.00

From the Texas Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the session of 1953-54

2,000.00

From Merck and Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the session of 1953-54

1,800.00

From Professor A. G. A. Balz, to be added to the Balz Philosophy Fund

250.00

From the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, for a fellowship in physics for the session of 1953-54

3,300.00

From Mr. John L. Pratt, to be used for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory in chemistry

20,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for research in astronomy under the direction of Dr. H. L. Alden

792.00

From Charles Pfizer and Company, to be added to the Pfizer Scholarship Fund for medical students

1,000.00

From the estate of the late Dr. H. K. Kaprelian, for a scholarship, final payment in the amount of

5,081.25

From the Perry Foundation, to be added to the Woodrow Wilson Department of Foreign Affairs scholarship fund

2,100.00

From the National Fund for Medical Education, in support of the Medical School

23,527.50

From the Z Society, for the annual "Z" awards

100.00

From the New York Medical Alumni, for the Medical School Library

200.00

From the Medical Class of 1953, for the Medical School Library

100.41

From the McGregor Fund, to purchase a McGregor Plaque for the Alderman Library

975.00

From the Virginia Heart Association, to be used for the Cardio-Pulmonary Laboratory

1,500.00

From the U. S. Rubber Company, for a fellowship for the session of 1953-54

1,500.00

From the Richmond Area University Center, for research in various fields

1,828.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. Lutz for two years beginning July 15, 1953

6,600.00

From the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for research in pharmacology under the auspices of Dr. Gemmill for the year beginning July 1, 1953

9,018.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for continued research in chemistry

40,000.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research in chemistry under the direction of Prof. Gwathmey

48,000.00

From the Department of the Army, for research in chemical engineering under the direction of Prof. Hubbard for nine months beginning May 18, 1953

12,500.00

From the Department of the Air Force, for research in physiology under the direction of Dr. Pitts

5,785.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, for research under the following members of the Medical faculty

Dr. William Parson

9,990.00

Dr. George Cooper

24,744.00

Dr. W. O. Klingman

20,000,00

Dr. T. H. Hunter

5,832.00

Dr. Oscar Swineford, Jr.

5,713.00

Dr. C. C. Speidel

2,376.00

Dr. A. E. Feller

1,620.00

Dr. William Parson

10,800.00

Dr. J. L. Guerrant

4,500.00

Dr. W. A. Volk

4,806.00

Dr. B. S. Leavell

3,000.00

Dr. Alfred Chanutin

12,500.00

Dr. D. C. Wilson (training grant for staff members)

17,160.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., of the University of Virginia, Dr. M. L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College, Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, and Wailes. Absent: Visitors Howard and Wheeler.

The minutes of the meeting of 12 June 1953, as previously distributed to members, were approved.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., be and he is hereby appointed Secretary to the Board of Visitors for the session of 1953-54.

The President reported receipt of the following gifts and grants

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay:

Dr. David McCord Wright, Professor of Economics, for the session of 1953-54, in order to teach at Oxford University.

Dr. Rowland Egger, Professor of Political Science, a continuation of his leave through the first semester of the session of 1953-54, for work with the Ford Foundation.

Dr. Ralph Edward Thiers, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for the session of 1953-54 to do research work at the Harvard Medical School.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the faculty members listed below be and they are hereby accepted. We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

Mr. Henry Hardy Perritt, Assistant Professor of Speech, as of the end of the session of 1952-53, to resume work toward the Ph.D. degree.

Dr. Daniel T. Watts, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, as of September 1, 1953, to become head of the Department of Pharmacology at West Virginia.

The Rev. John H. Fischbach, Instructor in Religion, as of the end of the session of 1952-53, to become associate pastor of a church in New York City.

Dr. William Henry Parker, Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 18, 1953, because of ill health.

Dr. James V. Cunningham, Assistant Professor of English, as of the end of the session of 1952-53, to take a position at Brandeis University.

Dr. John Leonard Fulmer, Associate Professor of Rural Economics, to take a position at Emory University.

Miss Jewell Reaves, Instructor in Nursing, as of September 15, 1953.

Mrs. Margaret Moseley Mosby, Assistant Professor of Nursing, as of August 1, 1953

Dr. Alex R. Kelly, Lecturer in Neurology and Psychiatry, as of July 15, 1953.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted as follows:

Dr. Edward W. Pullen, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective September 1, 1953.

Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik, from Acting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1953.

Dr. William E. Craddock, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Roentgenology, effective July 1, 1953.

Dr. Wilford A. H. Councill, Jr., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Urology, effective July 1, 1953.

Dr. E. Meredith Alrich, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1953.

Dr. George R. Minor, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1953.

Dr. William D. Buxton, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1953

Major Robert Clayton Schrom, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Air Science and Tactics, as of September 17, 1953.

Dr. Edwin Earl Floyd, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 17, 1953.

Dr. Ladley Husted, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, as of September 17, 1953.

Major Joseph Millard Pearson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Air Science and Tactics, as of September 17, 1953

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty

Dr. John S. Belew, as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $4,300.

Miss Helen Gunderson, as Assistant Professor of Speech, effective September 17, 1953-54, at a salary of $4,550.

Mr. Edward Stone, as Assistant Professor of English effective September 17, 1953, at a session salary of $4,050.

Dr. Evan G. Pattishall, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, part-time, for the first semester of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $750.

Mr. Louis J. Frana, as Instructor in Speech for the session of 1953-54, at a session salary of $3,000.

Mr. Charles A. Herring, as Instructor in English, effective September 17, 1953, at a session salary of $3,200.

Mr. Raymond Thorberg, as Instructor in English, effective September 17, 1953, at a session salary of $3,400

Mr. Aubrey Huffman, as Instructor in Drawing in the Engineering School, effective September 17, 1953, at a session salary of $3,600.

Dr. Oscar A. Thorup, as Instructor in Internal Medicine and Assistant to Dr. Hunter as of August 1, 1953, at an annual salary of $5,000.

Dr. Robert V. Beeler, as Instructor in Opthalmology, as of July 23, 1953, at no salary from the University

The Rev. Terence Y. Mullins, as part-time Instructor in Religion, effective September 17, 1953, at a session salary of $1,200.

Mr. Jamal A. Sa'd, as part-time Instructor in Foreign Affairs, for the first semester of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $625.

Mr. Rouhollah Ramazani, as part-time Instructor in Foreign Affairs for the second semester of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $625.

Mr. Majid Khadduri, as Visiting Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the first semester of the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $1,000.

Mr. Norman Burns, as Visiting Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the second semester of 1953-54, at a salary of $1,000.

Admiral A. C. Murdaugh, as Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the session of 1953-54, at a salary of $2,000.

Mr. Olen Kenneth Campbell, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, effective in September, 1953, at an annual salary of $4,500, to teach extension classes in southwest Virginia.

Dr. Franklin Martin, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective September 1, 1953, at an annual salary of $7,200 ($4,900 from the State; $2,300 from departmental earnings).

Mrs. Alice Bradshaw, as Instructor in Nursing, effective September 16, 1953, at a salary of $4,128.

Miss Vivian White, as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective October 5, 1953, at a salary of $3,936.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs, the following appointments were announced by the President:

Captain Malcolm C. Colby, as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics, as of June 18, 1953, at no salary from the University.

Captain Orlin Lester Livdahl, as Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, effective about October 15, 1953, at no salary from the University, as a replacement for Captain Wilson, who is being retired from the Navy for physical reasons.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Mr. Douglas Drysdale be and it is hereby changed from part-time Instructor in Economics to Lecturer in Business Administration for the session of 1953-54.

The President reported to the Board that he had recently rejected certain contracts offered by the U. S. Armed Forces Institute which contained a clause which would have required the University to dismiss, without statement as to cause, any instructor engaged in the U.S.A.F.I. program who might be declared persona non grata to the Armed Forces Institute. He explained that, quite aside from the questions of academic freedom involved, the acceptance of such contracts by the President would be in defiance of the authority and responsibility vested by law in The Rector and Visitors. He added that fourteen other universities have recently rejected these contracts.

Mr. Gay presented the Budget Requests for the 1954-56 biennium, and moved their adoption on behalf of the Finance Committee. Speaking as an individual member, he noted the expenditures for the School of Education, and questioned the wisdom of expanding teacher-training at the University. President Darden pointed out that Dean Stiles has reduced emphasis on methods, increased graduate work, and used the College for the education of teachers. In further discussion of the budget, the President commented on the funds asked for the Graduate School of Business to supplement gifts received from business men, and explained the necessity for increase in faculty salaries. He mentioned the problem of salary increases in the various faculties, noting especially the rapid growth in Engineering, and the need for bringing salaries in that School into line with those in Medicine and Law.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University of Virginia Budget Requests for the 1954-56 Biennium be and are hereby adopted, as approved by the Finance Committee, and outlined in "Budget Exhibits, 1954-56", laid before the Board.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 371, 374, 375, 378, 381, and 382, aggregating $70,516.09, recommended by them for cancellation.

President Darden described the present condition of House A, Dawson's Row, and proposed its demolition, in accordance with long range building plans. The Board adopted a resolution authorizing demolition of the building.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

WHEREAS, Ivey Foreman Lewis, distinguished guide and teacher of the young men of Virginia since the year 1915; and Dean of the University of Virginia since the year 1934, has, in this year 1953, retired, after a full and well rounded career as an educator, and an administrator,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that this Board, its members being desirous of preserving a record in its minutes of Dean Lewis' great contribution to the University of Virginia, does hereby express the regret of its members for the loss of the invaluable services of Dean Lewis, and its deep appreciation for his untiring effort, his loyalty, and his faithfulness to this University.

President Darden presented a letter from Charles E. Moran, of Charlottesville, offering, on behalf of the Moran family, to sell the "Montebello" property to the University for the sum of $65,000. The Board adopted a resolution authorizing the President to decline the offer and to release the Moran family of the obligation, entered into by them in 1948, to offer the property to the University before placing it on the market.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to sell the old carriage at Carr's Hill for $25.00.

President Darden conveyed to the Board an offer from the Carnegie Corporation to distribute its reports to Board members. The members present expressed a desire to receive the reports.

The President presented a letter from the U. S. Naval Inspector of Ordnance regarding new security clearance requirements for officers of the University, who, in the conduct of University business, need to have access to classified security information.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the Board, all of them citizens of the United States of America, do not presently require access to classified security information. A. D. Barksdale, Barron F. Black, R. A. Carrington, Jr., Whitwell W. Coxe, John M. Emmett, Thomas B. Gay, J. Segar Gravatt, Dowell J. Howard, Benjamin W. Mears, Mrs. Herbert McK. Smith, Howard W. Smith, Frank Talbott, Jr., Mrs. Bertha Wailes, and Miss Lucille Wheeler.

Because of the Board's desire that President Darden be free to attend the meeting at White Sulphur Springs, November 12 - 15, 1953, on Industry and Education, sponsored by Mr. Robert R. Young, it was resolved that the November meeting, scheduled for November 13, 1953, be held at Fredericksburg on Friday, November 6, 1953. The Secretary was directed to notify President Combs.

President Darden discussed the proposal that the University join the new Atlantic Athletic Conference, his conversations with the Presidents of Duke University and of the University of North Carolina, and the advantages and disadvantages of conference membership. He stressed the importance to the University of retaining independence to schedule the teams of Virginia institutions. He added that Mr. Tebell, Director of Athletics, wishes to confer with the Board in October.

Mr. Mebane Turner was admitted to the Board Room, and he presented arguments on behalf of the "V" Club in favor of conference membership, stressing the beneficial effects of conference competition, and giving it as his opinion that student athletes and the student body generally strongly prefer the Atlantic Conference to independent status, but are opposed to joining the Southern Conference.

It was resolved the the Board that the athletic matter be made a first order of business for the Board meeting to be held on Friday, October 9th, 1953. The Secretary was directed to invite to this meeting the President of the Alumni Association, Mr. Hunter Faulconer, the President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, Mr. Nelson T. Offutt, the Director of Athletics, Mr. G. K. Tebell; and the Chairman of the Athletic Council, Mr. Mortimer Caplin.

The Rector presented a letter from Mr. W. H. McFarlane, Secretary of the University Committee on Scholarships, requesting clarification of instructions for the award by the Committee of student grants from the Alumni Association and the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, and reading in part as follows

"Article III, Section 4 of the Constitution of the NCAA, as revised by the 47th Annual NCAA Convention, January 9-10, 1953, states: "Any college athlete who receives financial assistance other than that administered by his institution shall not be eligible for intercollegiate competition, provided, however, that this principle shall have no application to assistance received from anyone upon whom the athlete is naturally or legally dependent, nor shall it have application to any financial assistance awarded on bases having no relationship whatsoever to athletic ability."

This section (Article III Section 4) is supplemented by an Official Interpretation. "The phrase \`administered by' is interpreted as follows: A scholarship or grant-in-aid is \`administered' by an institution if the institution, through its regular committees or other agencies for the awarding of scholarships and grant-in-aid to students generally, has the final determination of the student who is to receive the award and the amount of value of the award he is to receive. Special committees appointed to award grants-in-aid or scholarships to athletes do not meet this requirement."

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that it is the sense of this Board that no conflict exists between the instructions given to the Scholarship Committee and the Constitution of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, that the Scholarship Committee retains the right of rejection of nominees for awards, but that in the awarding of grants of pre-determined amounts from the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, the question of need does not arise, and the Scholarship Committee shall make no change in the amounts

RESOLVED further that the Chairman of the Athletic Committee shall prepare for the signature of The Rector a letter to Mr. McFarlane conveying the sense of the resolution

President Darden presented a petition addressed to the Board by the University Committee on Scholarships, requesting the Board to establish and to "state explicitly the criteria under which Bayly-Tiffany awards are to be made, and to give adequate publicity to this statement in the Eastern Shore area." A copy of the petition and the legal opinions enclosed with it were distributed to members of the Board.

The Board resolved that The Rector appoint a committee of the Board to act on the petition and report back to the Board. Mr. Black appointed to this committee Miss Wheeler, Mr. Mears, and Mr. Gravatt, Chairman.

Mr. Talbott, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, read to the Board a letter he had just received from the President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation, stating the conditions under which it was proposed that Foundation and Alumni awards be given to students, and including a requirement that the recipient of such an award continue in subsequent years at the University to engage in extra-curricular activities or forfeit his award. It was pointed out in the discussion which followed that such a requirement might run counter to National Collegiate Athletic Association policy.

President Darden commented on the dangers of having matters of concern to The Rector and Visitors as a whole addressed directly to the Board rather than through the Office of the President, the problem having arisen in the past, the Board has previously ruled that its policy is to receive communications through the President.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposals set forth by the President of the Virginia Student Aid Foundation are acceptable to this Board, provided that they meet with approval from the National Collegiate Athletic Association; that the Chairman of the Athletic Committee of the Board furnish to the President of the University, for inclusion in a letter to be addressed by the President to a responsible official of the NCAA, a statement of the terms set forth in Item 5 of the policy proposals submitted by the Student Aid Foundation.

President Combs presented the Budget Requests for Mary Washington College for the 1954-56 Biennium.

Following discussion, the Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Mary Washington College Budget Requests for the 1954-56 Biennium be and are hereby adopted as approved by the Finance Committee, and laid before the Board.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Miss Evelyn Lorene Brignull, Instructor in Spanish, be and it is hereby accepted as of the end of the session of 1952-53. We wish for her the complete recovery of her father's health.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Mary Ellen Stephenson be and she is hereby promoted to Associate Professor of Spanish on a full-time basis, effective September, 1953, with a salary of $4,500 for the academic year.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Dr. Michael Erdelyi, Professor of Psychology, for a leave of absence without pay for the session 1953-54 be and the same is hereby granted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Dr. J. H. Dodd, Professor of Economics and Business Administration, for a leave of absence without pay for the session 1953-54 be and the same is hereby granted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Dr. Eileen K. Dodd, Professor of Psychology, for a leave of absence without pay for the session 1953-54 be and the same is hereby granted.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the request of Mr. Luther Clyde Carter, Assistant Professor of Sociology, for a leave of absence without pay for the session 1953-54 be and the same is hereby granted.

The following elections were approved by the Board:

Mrs. Lee L. Alvarez, Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the session 1953-54 at a salary of $3,420, incumbency to begin September 14, 1953.

Miss Caroline Louise Browne, Acting Assistant Professor of History, at a salary of $3,420 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 14, 1953.

Dr. Luke M. Smith, Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for the session 1953-54 at a salary of $3,600, incumbency to begin September 14, 1953.

Dr. Elizabeth M. Stalnaker, Acting Associate Professor of Clinical Psychology, at a salary of $4,200 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 14, 1953.

Dr. Thomas Michael Stritch, Instructor in Psychology, at a salary of $3,240 for the session of nine months. This is a one year appointment only and incumbency begins September 14, 1953.

Miss Frances Beveridge Sydnor, Instructor in English, at a salary of $3,000 for the session of nine months, incumbency to begin September 14, 1953.

Mrs. Isabelle Lawrence Gonon, Dean of Women and part-time Professor of French, at an annual salary of $6,240. Incumbency is to begin September 1, 1953.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Mrs. Ruth S. Wade be changed from Dean of Freshmen to Assistant Dean of Women of Mary Washington College, with no change in salary, as of September 1, 1953.

A mimeographed report on the distribution of academic grades for the second semester of 1952-53, and a mimeographed annual library report for the fiscal year 1952-53 were distributed to the members of the Board.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.
