---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1954'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1954) December 9, 1954
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 9, 1954

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

1 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

A called meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 6:30 p.m. in the Dogwood Room of the University Commons, at Charlottesville, in an informal dinner conference with representatives of the University Medical School and Hospital. Board members present were the Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, McWane, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Gray, Howard, Mears, and Talbott. Present from the School of Medicine were the Dean, Thomas H. Hunter, the Director of the Hospital, John M. Stacey, and Professors Vincent Archer, Henry B. Mulholland, and William Parson.

Informal reports were given by the Dean and the Director on recent and current developments in the Medical School and the Hospital, and on the role and the needs of each in the service of the State. There followed a full discussion of the special problems of the Medical School in research, in teaching, and in medical service, and the position of the Medical School in reference to the general problem of the University's need for a closer relationship to the public and to public education in Virginia

The meeting was adjourned at 10:00 p.m.
