---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1954'
month: 1
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1954) January 8, 1954
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

January 8, 1954

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

8 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

RECTOR AND VISITORS COMMITTEESGIFTSELECTIONSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSMARY STAMPS SUHLING CANCER FUNDEASEMENT OF LAMBETH LANEINCREASED SUMMER SESSION FEESALBERT VAUGHAN CASE MEMORIALSEPARATE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTUREESTATE OF MATTIE BROOKE BEALLEASEMENT FOR CHARLOTTESVILLE SEWERBAYLY-TIFFANY FUNDSCOMPLAINTS AGAINST PRESIDENT MORGAN L. COMBSMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the estate of the late Morris Cohen, for the Medical School

$ 500.00

From Mr. Forrest Hyde, 100 shares of Common Stock of Atlantic Refining Company, to establish a scholarship fund in the School of Business Administration in memory of his son, Samuel Forrest Hyde, valued at

2,750.00

From Mrs. Margaret W. Gillette and Mrs. Lucretia W. Wyckoff, to be added to the Samuel Forrest Hyde Scholarship Fund

1,000.00

From friends of Dr. W. E. Bray, to be used to purchase medical books and journals in his honor

320.62

From Mary E. Knapp, for use of the Bibliographical Society

125.00

From an anonymous donor, to be used by the Bureau of Public Administration

4,800.00

From the Upjohn Company, for medical research under Dr. William Parson and Dr. Kenneth Crispell

3,500.00

From the Virginia Society for Crippled Children, toward salaries paid in the Anti-Convulsive Clinic

3,853.30

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research under the direction of Prof. L. R. Quarles, of the Engineering School

12,500.00

Tuition per semester-hour

Virginians

Non-Virginians

Undergraduates

$ 7.50

$ 15.00

Graduates

7.50

15.00

Education problems courses, per semester hour

10.00

20.00

Auditing fee for students not enrolled in a full program, per semester hour

5.00

10.00

Research fee

30.00

30.00

The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Carrington, Coxe, Emmett, Gay, Gravatt, Mears, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith, Talbott, Wailes, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitor Howard and President Combs

The minutes of the meeting of 11 December 1953, previously distributed, were approved

The Rector spoke of his personal regret over the forthcoming retirement from the Board, subject to the present statute, of Mr. Richard A. Carrington, Jr., Mr. Thomas B. Gay, and Mrs. Bertha Wailes, and expressed the gratitude of the State for these three Visitors' self-sacrificing and devoted service to the University

To provide for needed continuity in the work of the Board's committees, the Rector then announced the following appointments

Committee on Mary Washinton College Mr. Gravatt

Committee on Buildings and Grounds Mr. Barksdale

Upon the Rector's nomination, the Board made the following election

Executive Committee Mr. Talbott

The President reported the following gifts and grants:

The Board adopted the following resolutions.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Philip Williams, Jr., be and he is hereby elected Associate Professor of English, effective at the beginning of the session of 1954-55, at a session salary of $5,400 (or at the second level of the proposed scale - $5,500 - if it is enacted.)

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Edwin P. Lehman be and he is hereby elected Visiting Professor of Surgery, effective for the second semester of the 1953-54 session, at a salary of $1,000

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible hospital accounts Schedules 409, 412, and 413, aggregating $19,540.47, recommended by them for cancellation

President Darden presented to the Board a letter from Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, requesting that the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund be transferred to Charlottesville, and a memorandum from the Comptroller explaining the management of the Fund. The following resolution was thereupon adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized and directed to transfer all monies and securities of the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund from the State Planters Bank and Trust Company of Richmond to the Bursar to be administered by him as a special fund subject to the conditions of the original gift

Upon recommendation of the President, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that it is the sense of this Board that the roadway known as Lambeth Lane, lying between the Faculty Apartments and the residence of Mrs. Speed, should be dedicated to street purposes and transferred to the City of Charlottesville, that the Comptroller of the University be and he is hereby authorized and directed, in consultation with the University's Special Counsel, to execute a legal instrument in the name of the Rector and Visitors of the University granting to the City of Charlottesville an easement for a public street through Lambeth Lane

The President laid before the Board the following proposed Schedule of Summer Session fees, submitted through the Comptroller by Dr. Lindley J. Stiles, Director of the Summer Session

The Board thereupon resolved that the Schedule be adopted as submitted

President Darden presented to the Board a letter from Albert H. Case, as follows

In order that you might better understand our present desire to perpetuate the memory of our son who attended the University of Virginia, I am making the following written request for the use of the funds donated under contract of May 12, 1950, which funds become available for use to the University of Virginia after the death of both Mrs. Case and myself

We would like very much to have one-half of this fund designated for the Alderman Library, the income from which to be used for the purchase of books for the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia. The books purchased with this fund are to be selected in the area of the humanities, and more specifically, in the fields of ancient and modern languages, English and Philosophy. We wish that to each book purchased from this fund there be affixed a suitable book plate indicating that it derived from funds donated by Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Case in the memory of their son, Albert Vaughan Case

The other half of this fund we would be pleased to have used to establish scholarships in the Law School in memory of our son and to be designated as Albert Vaughan Case Scholarship. These scholarships are to be awarded annually from the income of this fund to students in the Law School who, in the judgment of the Faculty give promise of making outstanding contribution to the service of our country and its people. In making the appointments, the Faculty is directed to consider diligence and ability in professional studies and high moral character evidencing broad Christian idealism.

We would appreciate your advising us whether or not such designations can be made of the funds donated under the contract referred to above.

The Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the funds donated to the University by Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Case under contract dated May 12, 1950 shall be known as the Albert Vaughan Case Memorial Fund, that when the income from this Fund shall become available for use by the University after the death of both Mr. and Mrs, Case, such income shall. (1) Be divided equally between the Alderman Library and the School of Law, and (2) Be expended for the purposes and in the manner set forth by Albert H. Case in his letter of November 25, 1953, addressed to President Colgate W. Darden and spread upon the minutes of this Board.

The President laid before the Board letters from Professor Thomas K. Fitz Patrick, Chairman of the Division of Architecture in the McIntire School of Fine Arts, and from Professor George O. Ferguson, Jr., Acting Dean of the College, as follows

After carefully reviewing the history of the development of the teaching of Architecture at the University of Virginia the following facts appear to be of special significance

a. The original gift from Mr. Paul G. McIntire was to establish "A School of Fine Arts to comprise first a School of Art and Architecture and second a School of Music".

b. In 1919 A School of Art, Architecture, and Music was established and designated as the McIntire School of Fine Arts. Under the leadership of Professors Kimball, Hudnut, Kocher, and Campbell a strong program in architectural teaching was developed as well as an introductory art program. Music remained under a separate leadership. From 1948 on greater attention was devoted to individual fields in Art under the guidance of Professor Charles Smith, and in 1951 Art was established as a separate division of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts

The Division of Architecture currently enjoys a certain autonomy in fact which is not apparent in title, nor in catalogue description. It is urgently recommended that the identity of the architectural program be established by designating it The McIntire School of Architecture with a chairman or director, for the following reasons:

1\. A Specific degree is granted by the Division, separate from the degree of the College of Arts and Sciences.

2\. The admission of candidates to Architecture is processed by the Division of Architecture, separate from the College of Arts and Sciences.

3\. The Bachelor of Science in Architecture is a professional degree under the requirement of a five session program similar to the professional degrees in Engineering, Law, and Medicine. It is so recognized by the State Examining Boards operating under statute law in Virginia

4\. Establishing a School of Architecture would give the program in Architecture necessary and useful stature not only in this State but throughout the country.

In requesting the above there still exists a dominant conviction that the academic courses offered by the College of Arts and Sciences would continue to remain a strong element in the curriculum in Architecture. This can even be enlarged in scope so that a more complete development of the individual may be realized during his academic training

It is earnestly hoped that sincere consideration will be given to this request

I enclose herewith a recommendation from Professor Fitz Patrick that the Division of Architecture of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts be changed in status in the University to the McIntire School of Architecture. I have discussed the matter with him and I heartily recommend that the change be made.

I also recommend that the status of Professor Fitz Patrick be changed from Chairman of the Division of Architecture to Chairman or Director of the School of Architecture.

At the same time the Division of Art of the Department of Fine Arts should be changed to the McIntire Department of Art in the College of Arts and Sciences, with Professor Smith as its Chairman

A number of considerations prompt me to make these recommendations, and I should be glad to discuss them with you if you wish

I may mention here that for a considerable number of years the Division of Architecture has been nearly autonomous in its operation in so far as its admissions, degrees and academic discipline are concerned, although it has nominally functioned as a part of the College. Its work is so technical and specialized in nature that few academic officials understand it or are competent to deal with it intelligently

A dozen years or more ago I predicted in an article on the College in the Alumni News that both commerce and architecture would eventually be set up as separate "Departments" of the University, as they were then called. Commerce has been so set up, and I do not believe we should wait longer in the case of architecture.

Indeed, the pressure is doubtless greater for architecture than for commerce, in so far as accrediting agencies and state examining boards are concerned

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Division of Architecture in the McIntire School of Fine Arts be and it is hereby established as a school of the University, separate from the College of Arts and Sciences, to be designated The McIntire School of Architecture, that there shall be no present change in the staff, but that the Chairman of the former Division of Architecture be and he is hereby designated the Director of the McIntire School of Architecture.

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Division of Art be and it is hereby established as the McIntire Department of Art in the College of Arts and Sciences, that there shall be no present change in the staff, but that the Chairman of the former Division of Art be and he is hereby designated the Chairman of the McIntire Department of Art.

Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the Rector and Visitors, presented a draft of a resolution to the Board for its consideration in the matter of the Estate of Mattie Brooke Beall. Upon consideration the Board adopted the resolution as drafted, which reads as follows

WHEREAS, Mattie Brooke Beall died on the 17th day of December, 1952, a resident of the District of Columbia, leaving a will which has been duly probated in said District, in the fifth paragraph of which said decedent provided as follows

"Fifth: All the rest residue and remainder of my estate, of whatsoever character and wheresoever the same may be situate, including real, personal and mixed property, of which I may die seized or possessed, or to which I may be in any manner entitled or interested in, I hereby give, devise and bequeath unto the Trustees Of Mary Stamps Royster White Fund, in memory of my sister, Louise Ogle Beall.", and

WHEREAS, there is considerable doubt as to whether or not the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, as Trustee of a fund formerly known as "The Mary Stamps Royster Memorial Fund", but now known as the "Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund", the purposes of said trust having been changed, is entitled to said residuary legacy; and,

WHEREAS, claim has been made by Floyd Brooke Beall Spencer, sole surviving heir at law and next of kin of said decedent, that said decedent died intestate as to said residuary legacy, and,

WHEREAS, National Metropolitan Bank of Washington, Executor under the will of the late Mattie Brooke Beall, has filed a petition for instructions in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Holding Probate Court, as to the proper manner in which to make distribution of said residuary legacy, to which petition said Floyd Brooke Beall Spencer and the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia are parties respondent, and

WHEREAS, said Floyd Brooke Beall Spencer, through her counsel, has made an offer to compromise the matter;

RESOLVED, that in order to avoid extensive and costly litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain, it is to the best interests of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to consent to the compromise settlement of the conflicting claims to the residuary estate of Mattie Brooke Beall, as offered by Floyd Brooke Beall Spencer, only surviving heir at law and next of kin of said decedent, Mattie Brooke Beall, whereby one-half of the residuary legacy provided for in paragraph Fifth of the will of said Mattie Brooke Beall shall be paid to said Floyd Brooke Beall Spencer and the other one-half to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, said latter sum to be held in trust and added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Cancer Fund now held by said the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, the income therefrom to be used for the purposes of said Fund, PROVIDED, however, that such compromise settlement be ratified and confirmed by an order of the Court before which this matter is now pending,

RESOLVED, FURTHER, that C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel for the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and directed to consent, on behalf of the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, to the entry of an order in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Holding Probate Court, before which this matter is now pending, ratifying and confirming said compromise settlement

Mr. Minor presented to the Board a request from the City of Charlottesville for an easement to permit construction of a sewer line across the University's property lying south of Jefferson Park Avenue. After discussion the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED, that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia grant to the City of Charlottesville an easement for a 12″ sanitary sewer across the property formerly lying in the County of Albemarle but now situated in the City of Charlottesville on the south side of Jefferson Park Avenue, being the same property which was conveyed to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, by deed of Green Peyton and wife, dated May 10, 1884, of record in the Clerk's Office of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County, Virginia, in D.B. 83, p. 327, and that the proper officers of this corporation be authorized and directed to execute and deliver a deed to said City of Charlottesville granting such easement.

Mr. Gravatt, Chairman of the special Committee on Award of Bayly-Tiffany Funds, laid before the Board the Report of his Committee, as follows

Report of Committee on Award of Bayly-Tiffany Funds.

In accordance with request of the Rector dated September 12, 1953, the undersigned have met and considered the questions propounded by the University Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment with respect to the will of Mrs. Evelyn May Bayly Tiffany and the award of the funds given the University of Virginia under Paragraph Seventh thereof

This Committee does not understand that any further legal study or opinion with respect to this will is desired or necessary but has proceeded upon the assumption that this Board has both the discretionary power and duty to determine the conditions upon which the award of these funds should be made.

We believe that the following paragraph concluding a letter of opinion upon this will, written in November 1930 by Mr. Allan W. Perkins, then Attorney for the Rector and Visitors, aptly defines our legal and moral obligation in this matter

"Our duty in this whole matter is primarily to carry out Mrs. Tiffany's wishes, as we understand them, as fully and completely as is possible. She has given the University of Virginia a large sum of money, and works of art, the value of which cannot be estimated. I have endeavored to call the attention of the Committee to as many phases of the situation presented by Mrs. Tiffany's will as seem to me to confront us, so that whatever conditions may arise in future we may have a record which will show that we have conscientiously endeavored by investigation and analysis to adopt a course which is in conformity with law, reasonable in all of its details, and which we believe will most nearly conform to what we conceive Mrs. Tiffany's wishes to have been."

This Committee believes that Mrs. Tiffany in making the bequest in Paragraph Seventh of her will was moved by a deep devotion to both the University of Virginia and to the Eastern Shore of Virginia and its people. We believe she intended and hoped that by means of Paragraph Seventh of her will as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia would be brought under the influence of the University and that thereby both would be benefited

Having in mind our obligation to give effect to this intention of our benefactor your Committee answers the inquiries propounded as follows

May any criteria other than residence requirements be attached to the award of Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships?

Yes.

I. Criteria for Applicants from Accomac and Northampton Counties

(a) Need as a criteria

As to awards to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia we are of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the testatrix that need should be considered in making these awards

This may be done either (1) by fixing the amount of the award according to the need in each case within fixed minimum and maximum limits, or if this procedure is not administratively practical, (2) by making need (according to fixed and uniform standards) a prerequisite condition for any award.

(b) Scholastic attainment as a criteria

Your Committee is of the opinion that if high scholastic attainment either before or after admission to the University were made a prerequisite condition for the award of these funds to persons from the Eastern Shore of Virginia the purpose of the testatrix, with repect to bringing as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia to the University, would be greatly impaired. We therfore recommend that as to the Eastern Shore of Virginia these awards be made to students qualified for admission who maintain after admission the scholastic requirements necessary to remain in good standing in the University. In those cases where the Committee believes a student on probation is making reasonable effort to overcome his difficulties, a grant may be made or continued

II. Criteria for Applicants from Other Parts of the State of Virginia and Maryland

(a) None of these funds should be awarded to applicants from other parts of Virginia or from Maryland if there is an applicant from Accomac or Northhampton Counties meeting the qualification set forth under No. I hereof

(b) We do not believe that the intent and purpose of the Testatrix will be, in any wise, impaired by requiring that applicants from Maryland and other parts of Virginia meet, as a prerequisite condition for these awards, the usual requirements, as to scholarship and need, applicable generally to the award of scholarships by the University

May Bayly-Tiffany scholarships be awarded to students entering or enrolled in the schools of Education, Engineering, and Business Administration?

Your Committee being of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the Testatrix recommends that these funds be awarded to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia for admission to any schools and departments of the University (subject, of course, to the conditions heretofore set forth under No. I hereof).

It has been suggested in conference with the Scholarship Committee of the University that the standards recommended herein are not consistent with established standards for awards designated "Scholarships". It is, therefore, recommended that the Scholarship Committee of the University be authorized to designate awards from the Bayly-Tiffany fund as "grants in aid" or such other designation as the Committee may think appropriate

The Committee's Report was adopted by the Board

The Rector laid before the Board approximately sixty letters chiefly from the Fredericksburg area, but similar to each other only in that all appeared to be voluntary and all, without exception, praised President Combs and his administration of Mary Washington College. After summarizing the contents of these letters, the Rector laid them on the table for the inspection of any member who desired to read them

President Darden reported that in obedience to the Board's instructions he had paid several visits to Dr. Combs since December 22nd in the hope, unsuccessful as it turned out, of working out a voluntary readjustment of administrative responsibilities and duties at the College. On his final visit the previous day he had found Dr. Combs much improved in health and confidence, and assured as to the rectitude of his own position and conduct Dr. Combs had complained of his exclusion from the room during the hearings on December 22nd and of the Board's failure to hear other witnesses who were ready to testify

There followed an extensive discussion in which some members argued that the key charges against Dr. Combs had been sufficiently demonstrated. Others pointed to apparent conflicts in the the testimony and to the lack of a stenographic record of the evidence heard on November 27th by the Committee on Mary Washington College. The Rector was authorized to prepare and furnish to Dr. Combs a copy of the stenographic record of the Board's proceedings on December 22nd.

General agreement was reached. (1) that abundant time and opportunity must be provided for a hearing of any further witnesses whom Dr. Combs might care to call, (2) that Dr. Combs must be warned to exclude all "character" witnesses and introduce only persons conversant with administrative matters at the College, and (3) that all testimony in the further hearings should be recorded by a stenographer

After additional discussion as to the manner of conducting the hearings, resolutions were adopted by the Board embodying the three provisions cited above, and resolving further (1) that the next meeting be held at Fredericksburg on February 12th and 13th, (2) that the Rector should write a letter to Dr. Combs inviting him to appear before the Board on February 12th to make a further statement and to present on that date his additional witnesses, (3) that Dr. Combs be invited to be present in the room when other witnesses testified, and (4) that the Committee on Mary Washington College should arrange to call before the Board either on February 12th or the following day any witnesses which the Committee may feel can give relevant testimony

The Rector laid before the Board the following letter from President Combs

Authority is requested by officials of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia to prepare a plan for the Board's approval to grant an easement of right of way to W. C. Spratt over the college property from Virginia Route #3 to the property of W. C. Spratt situated in Spotsylvania County Virginia and to obtain for the college an easement of right of way over the property of W. C. Spratt which divides the college property. Authority is further requested to prepare a plan or plans for the approval of the Board to exchange real estate by W. C. Spratt and the college should it be deemed mutually beneficial.

The Board thereupon resolved that President Combs be granted authority to proceed with the plans as requested.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

In order that you might better understand our present desire to perpetuate the memory of our son who attended the University of Virginia, I am making the following written request for the use of the funds donated under contract of May 12, 1950, which funds become available for use to the University of Virginia after the death of both Mrs. Case and myself

We would like very much to have one-half of this fund designated for the Alderman Library, the income from which to be used for the purchase of books for the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia. The books purchased with this fund are to be selected in the area of the humanities, and more specifically, in the fields of ancient and modern languages, English and Philosophy. We wish that to each book purchased from this fund there be affixed a suitable book plate indicating that it derived from funds donated by Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Case in the memory of their son, Albert Vaughan Case

The other half of this fund we would be pleased to have used to establish scholarships in the Law School in memory of our son and to be designated as Albert Vaughan Case Scholarship. These scholarships are to be awarded annually from the income of this fund to students in the Law School who, in the judgment of the Faculty give promise of making outstanding contribution to the service of our country and its people. In making the appointments, the Faculty is directed to consider diligence and ability in professional studies and high moral character evidencing broad Christian idealism.

We would appreciate your advising us whether or not such designations can be made of the funds donated under the contract referred to above.

After carefully reviewing the history of the development of the teaching of Architecture at the University of Virginia the following facts appear to be of special significance

a. The original gift from Mr. Paul G. McIntire was to establish "A School of Fine Arts to comprise first a School of Art and Architecture and second a School of Music".

b. In 1919 A School of Art, Architecture, and Music was established and designated as the McIntire School of Fine Arts. Under the leadership of Professors Kimball, Hudnut, Kocher, and Campbell a strong program in architectural teaching was developed as well as an introductory art program. Music remained under a separate leadership. From 1948 on greater attention was devoted to individual fields in Art under the guidance of Professor Charles Smith, and in 1951 Art was established as a separate division of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts

The Division of Architecture currently enjoys a certain autonomy in fact which is not apparent in title, nor in catalogue description. It is urgently recommended that the identity of the architectural program be established by designating it The McIntire School of Architecture with a chairman or director, for the following reasons:

1\. A Specific degree is granted by the Division, separate from the degree of the College of Arts and Sciences.

2\. The admission of candidates to Architecture is processed by the Division of Architecture, separate from the College of Arts and Sciences.

3\. The Bachelor of Science in Architecture is a professional degree under the requirement of a five session program similar to the professional degrees in Engineering, Law, and Medicine. It is so recognized by the State Examining Boards operating under statute law in Virginia

4\. Establishing a School of Architecture would give the program in Architecture necessary and useful stature not only in this State but throughout the country.

In requesting the above there still exists a dominant conviction that the academic courses offered by the College of Arts and Sciences would continue to remain a strong element in the curriculum in Architecture. This can even be enlarged in scope so that a more complete development of the individual may be realized during his academic training

It is earnestly hoped that sincere consideration will be given to this request

I enclose herewith a recommendation from Professor Fitz Patrick that the Division of Architecture of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts be changed in status in the University to the McIntire School of Architecture. I have discussed the matter with him and I heartily recommend that the change be made.

I also recommend that the status of Professor Fitz Patrick be changed from Chairman of the Division of Architecture to Chairman or Director of the School of Architecture.

At the same time the Division of Art of the Department of Fine Arts should be changed to the McIntire Department of Art in the College of Arts and Sciences, with Professor Smith as its Chairman

A number of considerations prompt me to make these recommendations, and I should be glad to discuss them with you if you wish

I may mention here that for a considerable number of years the Division of Architecture has been nearly autonomous in its operation in so far as its admissions, degrees and academic discipline are concerned, although it has nominally functioned as a part of the College. Its work is so technical and specialized in nature that few academic officials understand it or are competent to deal with it intelligently

A dozen years or more ago I predicted in an article on the College in the Alumni News that both commerce and architecture would eventually be set up as separate "Departments" of the University, as they were then called. Commerce has been so set up, and I do not believe we should wait longer in the case of architecture.

Indeed, the pressure is doubtless greater for architecture than for commerce, in so far as accrediting agencies and state examining boards are concerned

Report of Committee on Award of Bayly-Tiffany Funds.

In accordance with request of the Rector dated September 12, 1953, the undersigned have met and considered the questions propounded by the University Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment with respect to the will of Mrs. Evelyn May Bayly Tiffany and the award of the funds given the University of Virginia under Paragraph Seventh thereof

This Committee does not understand that any further legal study or opinion with respect to this will is desired or necessary but has proceeded upon the assumption that this Board has both the discretionary power and duty to determine the conditions upon which the award of these funds should be made.

We believe that the following paragraph concluding a letter of opinion upon this will, written in November 1930 by Mr. Allan W. Perkins, then Attorney for the Rector and Visitors, aptly defines our legal and moral obligation in this matter

"Our duty in this whole matter is primarily to carry out Mrs. Tiffany's wishes, as we understand them, as fully and completely as is possible. She has given the University of Virginia a large sum of money, and works of art, the value of which cannot be estimated. I have endeavored to call the attention of the Committee to as many phases of the situation presented by Mrs. Tiffany's will as seem to me to confront us, so that whatever conditions may arise in future we may have a record which will show that we have conscientiously endeavored by investigation and analysis to adopt a course which is in conformity with law, reasonable in all of its details, and which we believe will most nearly conform to what we conceive Mrs. Tiffany's wishes to have been."

This Committee believes that Mrs. Tiffany in making the bequest in Paragraph Seventh of her will was moved by a deep devotion to both the University of Virginia and to the Eastern Shore of Virginia and its people. We believe she intended and hoped that by means of Paragraph Seventh of her will as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia would be brought under the influence of the University and that thereby both would be benefited

Having in mind our obligation to give effect to this intention of our benefactor your Committee answers the inquiries propounded as follows

May any criteria other than residence requirements be attached to the award of Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships?

Yes.

I. Criteria for Applicants from Accomac and Northampton Counties

(a) Need as a criteria

As to awards to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia we are of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the testatrix that need should be considered in making these awards

This may be done either (1) by fixing the amount of the award according to the need in each case within fixed minimum and maximum limits, or if this procedure is not administratively practical, (2) by making need (according to fixed and uniform standards) a prerequisite condition for any award.

(b) Scholastic attainment as a criteria

Your Committee is of the opinion that if high scholastic attainment either before or after admission to the University were made a prerequisite condition for the award of these funds to persons from the Eastern Shore of Virginia the purpose of the testatrix, with repect to bringing as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia to the University, would be greatly impaired. We therfore recommend that as to the Eastern Shore of Virginia these awards be made to students qualified for admission who maintain after admission the scholastic requirements necessary to remain in good standing in the University. In those cases where the Committee believes a student on probation is making reasonable effort to overcome his difficulties, a grant may be made or continued

II. Criteria for Applicants from Other Parts of the State of Virginia and Maryland

(a) None of these funds should be awarded to applicants from other parts of Virginia or from Maryland if there is an applicant from Accomac or Northhampton Counties meeting the qualification set forth under No. I hereof

(b) We do not believe that the intent and purpose of the Testatrix will be, in any wise, impaired by requiring that applicants from Maryland and other parts of Virginia meet, as a prerequisite condition for these awards, the usual requirements, as to scholarship and need, applicable generally to the award of scholarships by the University

May Bayly-Tiffany scholarships be awarded to students entering or enrolled in the schools of Education, Engineering, and Business Administration?

Your Committee being of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the Testatrix recommends that these funds be awarded to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia for admission to any schools and departments of the University (subject, of course, to the conditions heretofore set forth under No. I hereof).

It has been suggested in conference with the Scholarship Committee of the University that the standards recommended herein are not consistent with established standards for awards designated "Scholarships". It is, therefore, recommended that the Scholarship Committee of the University be authorized to designate awards from the Bayly-Tiffany fund as "grants in aid" or such other designation as the Committee may think appropriate

Authority is requested by officials of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia to prepare a plan for the Board's approval to grant an easement of right of way to W. C. Spratt over the college property from Virginia Route #3 to the property of W. C. Spratt situated in Spotsylvania County Virginia and to obtain for the college an easement of right of way over the property of W. C. Spratt which divides the college property. Authority is further requested to prepare a plan or plans for the approval of the Board to exchange real estate by W. C. Spratt and the college should it be deemed mutually beneficial.

In order that you might better understand our present desire to perpetuate the memory of our son who attended the University of Virginia, I am making the following written request for the use of the funds donated under contract of May 12, 1950, which funds become available for use to the University of Virginia after the death of both Mrs. Case and myself

We would like very much to have one-half of this fund designated for the Alderman Library, the income from which to be used for the purchase of books for the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia. The books purchased with this fund are to be selected in the area of the humanities, and more specifically, in the fields of ancient and modern languages, English and Philosophy. We wish that to each book purchased from this fund there be affixed a suitable book plate indicating that it derived from funds donated by Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Case in the memory of their son, Albert Vaughan Case

The other half of this fund we would be pleased to have used to establish scholarships in the Law School in memory of our son and to be designated as Albert Vaughan Case Scholarship. These scholarships are to be awarded annually from the income of this fund to students in the Law School who, in the judgment of the Faculty give promise of making outstanding contribution to the service of our country and its people. In making the appointments, the Faculty is directed to consider diligence and ability in professional studies and high moral character evidencing broad Christian idealism.

We would appreciate your advising us whether or not such designations can be made of the funds donated under the contract referred to above.

After carefully reviewing the history of the development of the teaching of Architecture at the University of Virginia the following facts appear to be of special significance

a. The original gift from Mr. Paul G. McIntire was to establish "A School of Fine Arts to comprise first a School of Art and Architecture and second a School of Music".

b. In 1919 A School of Art, Architecture, and Music was established and designated as the McIntire School of Fine Arts. Under the leadership of Professors Kimball, Hudnut, Kocher, and Campbell a strong program in architectural teaching was developed as well as an introductory art program. Music remained under a separate leadership. From 1948 on greater attention was devoted to individual fields in Art under the guidance of Professor Charles Smith, and in 1951 Art was established as a separate division of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts

The Division of Architecture currently enjoys a certain autonomy in fact which is not apparent in title, nor in catalogue description. It is urgently recommended that the identity of the architectural program be established by designating it The McIntire School of Architecture with a chairman or director, for the following reasons:

1\. A Specific degree is granted by the Division, separate from the degree of the College of Arts and Sciences.

2\. The admission of candidates to Architecture is processed by the Division of Architecture, separate from the College of Arts and Sciences.

3\. The Bachelor of Science in Architecture is a professional degree under the requirement of a five session program similar to the professional degrees in Engineering, Law, and Medicine. It is so recognized by the State Examining Boards operating under statute law in Virginia

4\. Establishing a School of Architecture would give the program in Architecture necessary and useful stature not only in this State but throughout the country.

In requesting the above there still exists a dominant conviction that the academic courses offered by the College of Arts and Sciences would continue to remain a strong element in the curriculum in Architecture. This can even be enlarged in scope so that a more complete development of the individual may be realized during his academic training

It is earnestly hoped that sincere consideration will be given to this request

I enclose herewith a recommendation from Professor Fitz Patrick that the Division of Architecture of the McIntire Department of Fine Arts be changed in status in the University to the McIntire School of Architecture. I have discussed the matter with him and I heartily recommend that the change be made.

I also recommend that the status of Professor Fitz Patrick be changed from Chairman of the Division of Architecture to Chairman or Director of the School of Architecture.

At the same time the Division of Art of the Department of Fine Arts should be changed to the McIntire Department of Art in the College of Arts and Sciences, with Professor Smith as its Chairman

A number of considerations prompt me to make these recommendations, and I should be glad to discuss them with you if you wish

I may mention here that for a considerable number of years the Division of Architecture has been nearly autonomous in its operation in so far as its admissions, degrees and academic discipline are concerned, although it has nominally functioned as a part of the College. Its work is so technical and specialized in nature that few academic officials understand it or are competent to deal with it intelligently

A dozen years or more ago I predicted in an article on the College in the Alumni News that both commerce and architecture would eventually be set up as separate "Departments" of the University, as they were then called. Commerce has been so set up, and I do not believe we should wait longer in the case of architecture.

Indeed, the pressure is doubtless greater for architecture than for commerce, in so far as accrediting agencies and state examining boards are concerned

Report of Committee on Award of Bayly-Tiffany Funds.

In accordance with request of the Rector dated September 12, 1953, the undersigned have met and considered the questions propounded by the University Committee on Scholarships, Loans and Employment with respect to the will of Mrs. Evelyn May Bayly Tiffany and the award of the funds given the University of Virginia under Paragraph Seventh thereof

This Committee does not understand that any further legal study or opinion with respect to this will is desired or necessary but has proceeded upon the assumption that this Board has both the discretionary power and duty to determine the conditions upon which the award of these funds should be made.

We believe that the following paragraph concluding a letter of opinion upon this will, written in November 1930 by Mr. Allan W. Perkins, then Attorney for the Rector and Visitors, aptly defines our legal and moral obligation in this matter

"Our duty in this whole matter is primarily to carry out Mrs. Tiffany's wishes, as we understand them, as fully and completely as is possible. She has given the University of Virginia a large sum of money, and works of art, the value of which cannot be estimated. I have endeavored to call the attention of the Committee to as many phases of the situation presented by Mrs. Tiffany's will as seem to me to confront us, so that whatever conditions may arise in future we may have a record which will show that we have conscientiously endeavored by investigation and analysis to adopt a course which is in conformity with law, reasonable in all of its details, and which we believe will most nearly conform to what we conceive Mrs. Tiffany's wishes to have been."

This Committee believes that Mrs. Tiffany in making the bequest in Paragraph Seventh of her will was moved by a deep devotion to both the University of Virginia and to the Eastern Shore of Virginia and its people. We believe she intended and hoped that by means of Paragraph Seventh of her will as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia would be brought under the influence of the University and that thereby both would be benefited

Having in mind our obligation to give effect to this intention of our benefactor your Committee answers the inquiries propounded as follows

May any criteria other than residence requirements be attached to the award of Bayly-Tiffany Scholarships?

Yes.

I. Criteria for Applicants from Accomac and Northampton Counties

(a) Need as a criteria

As to awards to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia we are of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the testatrix that need should be considered in making these awards

This may be done either (1) by fixing the amount of the award according to the need in each case within fixed minimum and maximum limits, or if this procedure is not administratively practical, (2) by making need (according to fixed and uniform standards) a prerequisite condition for any award.

(b) Scholastic attainment as a criteria

Your Committee is of the opinion that if high scholastic attainment either before or after admission to the University were made a prerequisite condition for the award of these funds to persons from the Eastern Shore of Virginia the purpose of the testatrix, with repect to bringing as many young people as possible from the Eastern Shore of Virginia to the University, would be greatly impaired. We therfore recommend that as to the Eastern Shore of Virginia these awards be made to students qualified for admission who maintain after admission the scholastic requirements necessary to remain in good standing in the University. In those cases where the Committee believes a student on probation is making reasonable effort to overcome his difficulties, a grant may be made or continued

II. Criteria for Applicants from Other Parts of the State of Virginia and Maryland

(a) None of these funds should be awarded to applicants from other parts of Virginia or from Maryland if there is an applicant from Accomac or Northhampton Counties meeting the qualification set forth under No. I hereof

(b) We do not believe that the intent and purpose of the Testatrix will be, in any wise, impaired by requiring that applicants from Maryland and other parts of Virginia meet, as a prerequisite condition for these awards, the usual requirements, as to scholarship and need, applicable generally to the award of scholarships by the University

May Bayly-Tiffany scholarships be awarded to students entering or enrolled in the schools of Education, Engineering, and Business Administration?

Your Committee being of opinion that it is consistent with the purpose of the Testatrix recommends that these funds be awarded to applicants from the Eastern Shore of Virginia for admission to any schools and departments of the University (subject, of course, to the conditions heretofore set forth under No. I hereof).

It has been suggested in conference with the Scholarship Committee of the University that the standards recommended herein are not consistent with established standards for awards designated "Scholarships". It is, therefore, recommended that the Scholarship Committee of the University be authorized to designate awards from the Bayly-Tiffany fund as "grants in aid" or such other designation as the Committee may think appropriate

Authority is requested by officials of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia to prepare a plan for the Board's approval to grant an easement of right of way to W. C. Spratt over the college property from Virginia Route #3 to the property of W. C. Spratt situated in Spotsylvania County Virginia and to obtain for the college an easement of right of way over the property of W. C. Spratt which divides the college property. Authority is further requested to prepare a plan or plans for the approval of the Board to exchange real estate by W. C. Spratt and the college should it be deemed mutually beneficial.
