---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1955'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1955) April 8, 1955
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 8, 1955

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

13 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

MR. BERKELEY AND MR. HARTFIELD TAKE SEATS ON BOARDCOMMITTEE ON NEW PRESIDENT FOR MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGEGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSAPPOINTMENTSUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSBOXING ABOLISHED AS VARSITY SPORTSOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT RENAMEDRETIREMENT SYSTEMSALARY INCREASESCOLLEGE, EDUCATION, ARCHITECTURE AND UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESSENGINEERING SCHOOLLAW SCHOOLTUITION FEES INCREASEDPRESENT AND PROPOSED TUITION CHARGESFARM RENTAL RESEARCH CONTRACTWILLIAM H. WHITE FOUNDATION LECTURESMILITARY PROPERTY BONDSEWARD ESTATE LAND CONVEYANCECEMETERY REGULATIONSNORTHERN VIRGINIA EXTENSIONADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATIONTHE PRESIDENTBASIC FUNCTIONDUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIESORGANIZATIONAL RELATIONSHIPSTHE PROVOSTBASIC FUNCTIONSDUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIESORGANIZATIONAL RELATIONSHIPSFORD FOUNDATION PROPOSALMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSAPPEAL OF WILLIAM HOUCHINSREICHEL PROPERTY WAIVER FOR TRINITY CHURCHREPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE COLLEGEMARY WASHINGTON COMMITTEEREMOVAL OF DR. COMBS AS PRESIDENTANNOUNCEMENT OF DR. COMBS' REMOVALA STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA REGARDING THE PRESIDENCY OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE8 April 1955NOTICE TO DR. COMBSREASSIGNMENT OF PRESIDENTIAL DUTIESCOMMITTEE TO SELECT A NEW PRESIDENT OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. John Puryear, for the Hospital

$ 250.00

From Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Davison, Jr., for the James Southall Wilson Fellowship for the 1955-56 session (Anonymous)

1,000.00

From Mr. Thomas W. Streeter, to the Alderman Library, various papers and letters valued at

150.00

From Miss Elizabeth Johnson, 82 volumes valued at

383.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be added to the drug fund for indigents

200.00

From Kleen Stik Products Company, for the tumor clinic

200.00

From the Alumni Association, contributions made through that office for the School of Engineering

418.00

From the Alumni Association, contributions made through that office for the Medical Library

447.50

From the National Institute of Health, for continued research under Dr. W. P. Anslow of the School of Medicine

9,271.00

From the National Institute of Health, for continued research under Dr. Alfred Chanutin of the School of Medicine

10,892.00

From the American Trudeau Society, for continued research under Dr. Quentin N. Myrvik of the School of Medicine

5,249.00

From the National Science Foundation, for research in physics under Dr. Nicholas Cabrera

6,100.00

From the American Cancer Society, for research in chemistry under Dr. Alfred Burger

5,886.00

Instructor

Present

Proposed

(Number in rank 14)

3,300

4,000

3,500

4,250

3,700

4,500

3,900

4,750

Assistant Professor

4,200

5,000

(Number in rank 51)

4,450

5,250

4,700

5,500

4,950

5,750

Associate Professor

5,200

6,000

(Number in rank 43)

5,500

6,300

5,800

6,600

6,100

6,900

6,400

7,200

7,500\* \*Special Approval

Professor

6,500

7,300

(Number in rank 65)

7,000

7,800

7,500

8,300

8,000

8,800\*

8,500\*

9,300\*

Cost - $137,000

Instructor

Present

Proposed

(Number in rank 3)

3,300

4,000

3,500

4,250

3,700

4,500

3,900

4,750

Assistant Professor

4,200

5,000

(Number in rank 8)

4,450

5,300

4,700

5,600

4,950

5,900

6,200

Associate Professor

5,200

6,500

(Number in rank 11)

5,500

6,800

5,800

7,100

6,100

7,400

6,400

7,700

8,000\*

Professor

6,500

8,000

(Number in rank 12)

7,000

8,500

7,500

9,000

8,000

9,500\*

8,500\*

10,000\*

10,500\*

Cost - $35,800

Professors

Proposed

8,500

9,300

10,100

10,900

11,700

12,500\*

Present

8,000

8,625

9,250

9,875

10,500

Associate Professors

Proposed

6,500

7,000

7,500

8,000

8,500

Present

5,900

6,400

6,900

7,400

7,900

Assistant Professors

Proposed

5,000

5,300

5,600

5,900

6,200

Present

4,400

4,700

5,000

5,300

5,600

Name

New Salary

Gregory

12,500

Buckler

12,500

Ribble

10,900

Nash

12,500

Dillard

12,500

Boyd

10,900

Priest

10,100

Rhinelander

9,300

Woltz

9,300

Spies

9,300

Redden

9,300

Caplin

9,300

Cowan

7,000

Alford

7,000

Cost - $15,650

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Out-of-State Differential

LAW

Proposed

255.00

525.00

270.00

Present

235.00

450.00

215.00

ENGINEERING

Proposed

230.00

525.00

295.00

Present

210.00

450.00

240.00

ARCHITECTURE

Proposed

230.00

525.00

295.00

Present

177.50

450.00

272.50

COLLEGE & UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESS

Proposed

180.00

525.00

345.00

Present

160.00

450.00

290.00

EDUCATION

Proposed

180.00

525.00

345.00

Present

150.00

450.00

300.00

MEDICINE

No change

400.00

800.00

400.00

GRADUATE BUSINESS

No change

350.00

650.00

300.00

GRADUATE ARTS & SCIENCES, LAW, ENGINEERING, & EDUCATION

Proposed

180.00

360.00

180.00

Present

150.00

300.00

150.00

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:00 a.m. on this date in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present. The Rector, Barron F. Black, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., Visitors Barksdale, Berkeley, Coxe, Dunn, Emmett, Gravatt, Gray, Hartfield, Howard, McWane, Mears, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, Mr. Smith and Wheeler. Absent: Visitor Talbott

The minutes of the meeting of 11 March 1955, previously distributed, were approved

The Rector introduced and welcomed to the Board Col. Joseph M. Hartfield and Mr. Norborne Berkeley, whose appointments had been announced at the March 11th meeting. Certified copies of their oaths of office, taken before the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Albemarle County on April 8th, were handed to the Secretary and ordered to be filed

The Rector named to this Committee Mr. Henry E. McWane, chairman, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., ex officio, Dr. John M. Emmett, and Messrs. George O. Ferguson, C. O'Conor Goolrick and Benjamin W. Mears

The President announced the following gifts and grants

Following discussion by the President of the high qualifications of Dr. William L. Duren and others nominated for election, the Board adopted the following resolution.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:

Dr. Claude C. Coleman, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, part-time, as of March 15, 1955. He is to be paid $3,000 from the Department of Surgery and allowed to earn $5,000 in addition, a total of $8,000

Mr. Maurice Davier as Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, beginning in September, 1955, at a session salary of $10,500.

Mr. George Madison Maverick as Visiting Professor of Business Administration in the Graduate School of Business Administration, for the session of 1955-56, effective in September, 1955, at no salary from the University for that period.

Dr. Eric R. Wolf as Assistant Professor of Anthropology in the Department of Sociology for a term of three years, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $4,700.00

Dr. William Larkin Duren, Jr., as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences and Professor of Mathematics, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $10,000.

Mr. William Carl Lowry as Assistant Professor of Mathematics Education and Research in the School of Education, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $5,000.

Mr. Irvin L. Ramsey as Assistant Professor of Elementary Education in the School of Education, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $5,000

Mr. Vernon Cook as Instructor in German for the session of 1955-56, effective in September, 1955, at a session salary of $3,700.

In accordance with the resolution adopted by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on July 14, 1945, authorizing the President to give the proper professorial standing on the faculty to officers of the armed services on duty at the University of Virginia in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps program, the President announced the following appointments

Commander Thomas W. Hunt as Associate Professor of Naval Science, effective in the summer of 1955, at no salary from the University. This is a replacement for Lieut. Comdr. R. C. Young, who is being transferred by the Navy

Captain Harold S. Viall as Assistant Professor of Air Science and Tactics as of 14 March 1955

The following resolution was adopted by the Board.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and they are hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 517, 520 and 521, aggregating $25,081.55, as recommended by them

President Darden laid before the Board a letter of 26 March 1955 from Gus K. Tebell, Athletic Director, stating that the University Athletic Council had adopted at a meeting held on March 25 a motion "That boxing be inactivated at the University as a Varsity Sport and placed on an Intramural basis and conducted there with competent supervision".

After discussion the Board resolved that the decision of the Athletic Council be approved and confirmed

Letters from Professor Floyd N. House and Dean George O. Ferguson recommending the inclusion of "anthropology" as part of the name of the Sociology Department, in which the subject is now taught, having been laid before the Board by the President, the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the Department of Sociology in the College of Arts and Sciences be and it is hereby changed to the Department of Sociology and Anthropology

At the suggestion of President Darden, the proposal to revise the retirement plan, which had been discussed at the March meeting, was carried over for further consideration at the Annual Meeting June 10th

The President reported that the proposed increases in faculty and staff salaries, approved in principle by the Board at the March meeting, had now been approved by the Governor in detail Schedules of present and proposed faculty salaries were laid before the Board as follows

Special Approval

The Board resolved that the proposed salaries as set forth above be adopted effective at the opening of the 1955-56 session.

The following schedule of present and proposed tuition charges, which, like the salary schedules, had been submitted in advance to the Governor and to the Visitors, was laid before the Board.

The Board resolved that the proposed charges be approved and made effective as of the beginning of the 1955-56 session.

President Darden discussed a proposed cooperative research project on "The Law of Farm Rental and Cropper Contracts". The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dean F. D. G. Ribble of the Law School be authorized to sign a Memorandum of Understanding between the Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Production Economics Research Branch; and the School of Law, University of Virginia, relative to a cooperative research project on THE LAW OF FARM RENTAL AND CROPPER CONTRACTS.

At the President's request the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Dean of the Law School be authorized to enter into contracts with appropriate publishing houses for the publication of the annual William H. White Foundation Lectures.

The bonding agreements entered into with the Department of the Army in 1948 and in 1951 and the revised requirements of 1954 having been reviewed, the Board resolved as follows

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by resolution dated 9 July 1948 bound itself to the extent of $100,000 to the United States Government at the time of establishment of a Transportation Reserve Officers Training Corps, and

WHEREAS, in 1951 a Signal Reserve Officers Training Corps, and an Air Reserve Officers Training Corps were established and the value of the military property furnished to the University of Virginia for the use of the three ROTC units was substantially increased, and

WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia by resolution dated 8 June 1951, bound itself to the extent of $225,000 to the United States Government as required, and

WHEREAS, Section 47 of the National Defense Act was amended in 1954, reducing the amount of bond which ROTC institutions must furnish to a maximum of $25,000.

NOW, THEREFORE, KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby cancels the previous bond in the amount of $225,000 and in lieu thereof is held and firmly bound unto the United States of America in the just and full sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) lawful money of the United States, for which payment, well and truly to be made, it binds itself, its successors and assigns, firmly by these presents.

THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION IS SUCH that if the above-bounden The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia shall take good care of the property covered by this bond and shall when required by the Secretary of the Army, duly return the same in good order to him, or to such persons as he may designate to receive the same, within thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice so to do, except uniforms, expendable articles, supplies expended in operation, maintenance and instruction, such property as has been worn out in the service for which it was intended, and/or property lost or destroyed without negligence of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, or its agents, including students under its jurisdiction, then this obligation to be void and of no effect, otherwise to be and remain in full force and virtue.

It was, thereupon,

RESOLVED, that Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and requested to execute said bond in the name and on behalf of said The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and that Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, be and he is hereby authorized and requested to affix the corporate seal of said corporation to said bond, attesting the same and delivering the said bond to the Judge Advocate of the United States Army.

President Darden presented a request for confirmation of a conveyance of 1946

In the settlement of the estate of the late Dr. Walter M. Seward a number of lots in the City of Petersburg, Virginia, were conveyed to the University, and by deed dated August 10, 1946, Lots 17, 18, 19 and 20, Block C, in a subdivision in said City known as "Hillcrest" were conveyed by the University to Johnie Winston Fleming and said deed was recorded by said Grantee in the Clerk's Office of the Hustings Court of said City on the 17th day of September, 1946, in Deed Book No. 158 p. 69

We are advised that while the attestation clause of this deed recites the fact that- "The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has caused its name to be signed by J. L. Newcomb, its President, and its corporate seal to be thereunto affixed by E. I. Carruthers, its Secretary", there is no reference made to any specific resolution of this Board authorizing and directing this action by these officers

A Petersburg attorney, in examining the title to these lots, has asked that he be furnished with several certified copies of the resolution which authorized this action, but upon a thorough examination of the minutes of the Board, it would seem that if such a resolution was adopted it was not spread upon the minutes. Our records do show, however, that the transaction was properly concluded, the deed delivered and the purchase money paid. The following resolution was, thereupon, unanimously adopted

RESOLVED, that the action of the late Dr. J. L. Newcomb as President of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in executing a deed dated August 10, 1946, by which Lots 17, 18, 19 and 20 in Block C on a plat for the subdivision known as "Hillcrest" in the City of Petersburg, were conveyed to Johnnie Winston Fleming, and of E. I. Carruthers, Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia in affixing and attesting the seal of the Corporation to said deed and in delivering said deed to the purchaser, be and is hereby approved, ratified and confirmed in all respects

The following memorandum of recommendations from the Faculty Committee on the University Cemetery was laid before the Board by President Darden

The undersigned Cemetery Committee of the University of Virginia hereby submits the following recommendations to the President and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

1\. That the privilege of purchasing space in the University of Virginia Cemetery be rigidly restricted to the President and to members of the University of Virginia Faculty or to others as follows:

(a) the President, Active Full Professors, Associate Professors and Assistant Professors

(b) the Husband, Wife, Child or Relative of such above President and Professors who die without having acquired such space

2\. That the privilege of burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery be restricted to the above President and Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands and to said President, Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands who had reached their retirement age at the University of Virginia without having purchased space

3\. That after burial in either of the lots is made, the second lot will be available for use by the surviving husband and/or wife as the case may be. Should the surviving husband and/or wife not be buried in the second lot, then after the death of the second party said lot shall revert to the University of Virginia and reimbursement be made as noted below.

4\. Should space be purchased by any said President or Professor and he or she sever their relationship with the University of Virginia before either lot is used, then said lots shall revert to the University of Virginia, the right of burial in the University Cemetery shall be lost and the University of Virginia shall reimburse said President or Professor the payment for said lot

5\. The right of purchase of space and burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery shall be retained by any President or Professor who has to sever his relationship with the University of Virginia because of permanent illness of any kind

The Board ordered that the foregoing Memorandum of the Cemetery Committee be referred to the Visitors' Committee on Buildings and Grounds for further study.

The Rector read to the Board a letter from Mrs. Ruby Duncan conveying a resolution from the Fairfax County Business and Professional Women's Club commending the work of the Extension Division in Northern Virginia and recommending the establishment of a Northern Virginia branch of the University in the Fairfax County area

Mr. Mears, Chairman of the special committee studying the administrative structure of the University laid before the Board the following proposals by his Committee for the University's administrative organization and functions.

The President shall be responsible for the administration of the University of Virginia. He shall carry out this responsibility in such a manner as to realize the maximum educational potentialities of the University.

In order to carry out this basic function, the President shall have discretionary powers broad enough to enable him to meet his extensive responsibilities. Portions of the following duties, with the required authority for their fulfillment, may be delegated to subordinates, but this does not reduce the President's over-all responsibility for their performance.

1\. Policy-Making Responsibilities

a. Define the mission of the University

b. Formulate and promulgate the educational and administrative policies of the University

c. Interpret the policies of the University to

(1) The officers of the University,

(2) The faculties,

(3) The student bodies,

(4) The alumni and alumnae, and

(5) The people of the state of Virginia

d. Promote the general welfare and the development of the University by

(1) Striving to maintain a favorable attitude toward the University on the part of the citizens of Virginia and the General Assembly

(2) Stimulating efforts to procure financial support to supplement state appropriations

2\. Executive Responsibilities

a. Promptly and effectively execute:

(1) All laws relating to the University.

(2) All resolutions, rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Visitors for the government of the University

(3) All duties assigned to him by the Board of Visitors

b. Present recommendations pertaining to the University to the

(1) Board of Visitors

(2) General Assembly and its committees

(3) The Governor and his administrators and commissions

c. Prepare an annual report of the activities, accomplishments and problems of the University, and such special reports as he deems wise or the Board of Visitors may require

3\. Administrative Responsibilities

a. Assume, and retain at all times, control over all budgets of the University. Supervise the preparation of the budgets, and their presentation to the Board of Visitors, the Advisory Budget Commission, and the General Assembly and its committees. Approve revisions of the budgets including reallocations of unexpended funds. Approve expenditures under the budget.

b. Establish an organization to carry out effectively the policies of the University. Interpret the organization to the Board of Visitors, and to the officers and faculties of the University

c. Insure that the University is properly staffed with personnel competent to discharge their responsibilities effectively, and that adequate opportunities are provided for the development and advancement of such personnel

d. Foster high morale among the personnel of the University

e. Guide and counsel all officials concerned with development, public relations and communications, and act as coordinator to prevent or reduce confusion among supporters and the public regarding the several programs of the University.

f. Establish and maintain lines of communication adequate to insure prompt perception of needs for

(1) Problem identification and analysis

(2) Policy formulation

(3) Decision

To this and, the President shall be a member of all faculties, and shall frequently attend and participate in faculty meetings.

1\. The President shall be subject to the direction and control of the Board of Visitors.

2\. The President shall have the following staff officers reporting to him

a. Provost

b. Comptroller

3\. The President shall have the following administrative officers reporting to him.

a. Provost

b. Dean - Medical School

c. Dean - Law School

d. Dean - Graduate School of Arts & Sciences

e. Dean - College of Arts & Sciences

f. Dean - School of Education

g. Dean - School of Engineering

h. Dean - Graduate School of Business

i. Director - Undergraduate School of Business

j. Director - School of Architecture

k. Director of Extension

l. Chancellor of Mary Washington

m. Comptroller

4\. The President shall be Chairman of.

a. The University Senate

The Provost shall serve as the principal staff officer to the President on educational affairs of the University, and as an administrative officer in directly supervising the academic service agencies of the University

In carrying out his function as a staff officer, the Provost shall perform the following duties

1\. Research and Policy Formulation Responsibilities

a. Assist the President in formulating budgetary and fiscal policies and plans with respect to the operations and maintenance of the University

b. Organize and conduct research into indicators of long-term requirements for educational programs, staff and plant facilities

c. Formulate and recommend adoption of policies to implement approved plans and to solve recurring educational problems.

d. Develop and recommend the adoption of standards and policies governing instructional personnel administration, including such matters as

(1) Qualifications for appointment

(2) Promotion and tenure

(3) Leaves of absence

(4) Salaries

(5) Retirement

(6) Acceptance by faculty members of outside consulting work and the compensation for such work

e. Keep the President and Deans informed of movements and activities of outside educational bodies having implication for the University

2\. Review and Coordinating Responsibilities

a. Devise and recommend the installation of systems of reports and records to reveal.

(1) Instructional personnel strengths and weaknesses.

(2) Teaching loads and class sizes.

(3) Instructional costs.

(4) Grade distributions

(5) Needs for reallocation of space, building modification, new construction

b. Report his findings and recommendations, as a result of his reviews and analysis of reports and records, to the President.

c. Study and advise on proposed appointments and promotions to insure compliance with standards and to prevent inequities.

d. Consider and evaluate suggestions and recommendations made by faculty groups and individuals

e. Represent the President upon request in contacts by correspondence or in person with outside associations, foundations and similar groups

f. Act for the President in the latter's absence.

In carrying out his duties as an administrative officer, the Provost shall supervise all the academic service activities of the University including the following.

a. Library

b. Registrar

c. Dean of Women

d. Director of Student Affairs

e. Student Health

f. Student Aid

g. Public Relations

h. Intercollegiate Athletics

i. Independent Research Bureaus

j. Alumni Activities

1\. In carrying out his functions, the Provost shall work closely with the individual Deans, but the conduct of his activities shall in no way abridge the administrative responsibility or authority of these officers, who shall report directly to the President.

2\. He shall be a member of the University Senate

The Board resolved that the Secretary be directed to prepare and send to each Visitor a copy of the foregoing Report, together with a copy of the accompanying chart, the original of which should become a part of the permanent minutes.

A brief discussion was held on proposals by the Ford Foundation for cooperative effort by the Extension Division's Richmond Center in a projected experiment in group studies in the liberal arts and a training program in leadership and community development. There was favorable comment on the principle of cooperation in educational work of this type, but no vote was taken as the plan is still a tentative one

The Rector initiated a discussion of the request by Mr. Fred C. Abbott, Richmond attorney for a hearing before the Board of the appeal of his client Mr. William Houchins for reinstatement in his former job on the buildings and grounds force at the College. During extensive discussion, it was emphasized that an appeal could not be brought before the Board against the lay-off of a worker necessitated by a reduction in force for economic reasons, but, on the other hand, that the adduction of substantial evidence indicating that a dismissal for cause had been misrepresented as a lay-off would justify an immediate appeal to the administrative head of the College, and subsequently to the Board. President Darden pointed out that since he had already reviewed the case and denied the appeal, Mr. Houchins might consider him to be prejudiced in the case.

The Board resolved that the Rector write to Mr. Abbott pointing out the distinction between final authority by the Administration and by the Board, requiring Mr. Abbott to particularize regarding the circumstances of Mr. Houchins' dismissal, and advising him that in any case the first appeal must be to President Darden or to a deputy to be named by him.

President Darden laid before the Board a letter of 31 March 1955 from Mr. Swart, Recorder of the Vestry of Trinity Church, Fredericksburg, requesting release from the residential restriction on property at the southeast corner of William Street and College Avenue which the Vestry desired to purchase as the site for the proposed new church. The President also presented a letter of 2 April 1955 from the Bursar, Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, quoting the abstract title prepared by Mr. Goolrick and recommending the requested waiver.

The Board resolved that the waiver be granted, subject to review by the University's Attorney, provided that the release of restrictions should apply to church construction and to no other kind.

The circumstances of Dr. Morgan L. Combs' administration of the College and relations with the Board over the past sixteen months having been reviewed, the following Report of the Committee on Mary Washington College was read to the Board

The Committee is extremely conscious of the seriousness of the problems arising from the situation existing at Mary Washington College. It has constantly concerned itself that no hasty action be taken and the matter be handled with fairness and justice to all concerned. Every effort to have President Combs cooperate to this end has met with failure. The Committee is of the opinion that the Board, Rector of the Board and President Darden have been more than tolerant, have exhausted every effort for reconciliation, and have gone far beyond the call of duty in their efforts to give full credit for Dr. Combs' achievements and to deal with him on a dignified plane and with full consideration for his personal attitude

Statements in letters written by Dr. Combs followed by circulation of the recent paper entitled, "The Whole Story at Mary Washington College" are in the opinion of the Committee inexcusable. Such attacks as made on the Rector of the Board, other members of the Board, a former member of the Board and members of his own staff at Mary Washington College are inappropriate and unwarranted.

Recognizing the increasing gravity of the problem, the Chairman of the Committee unofficially visited and talked with Dr. Combs in an effort to have him cooperate in order that the Board could justify retaining him in office. This effort having failed, a second visit was made and it was suggested to him that he request retirement at age 65. He was informed that should he do this a proposal would be made to the Board that he be given leave of absence beginning July 1, 1955 with full pay to retirement

Every proposal has been met with refusal and defiance followed by constant direct attacks and implications involving former and present Board members, and members of the Mary Washington staff

Every effort having failed to resolve this matter, your committee is of the opinion that Dr. Combs' actions have now placed the Board in the position that to retain him in office would be increasingly detrimental to the College and would be evading the responsibility imposed upon the Board.

The Committee recommends

That Dr. Combs be granted a leave of absence, disassociating himself from the affairs of the College, beginning April 11, 1955 with full pay from private funds, to June 11, 1956.

After expressions of approval and further discussion, the Board resolved that the Committee's Report be filed with the Secretary and spread in full upon the minutes. Members having pointed out that the final recommendation would place Dr. Combs in the position of an inactive president rather than an employee-at-large on terminal leave, a motion to approve and adopt the Report in full was defeated

The Board thereupon adopted the following resolution by unanimous vote

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Morgan L. Combs be and he is hereby removed from office as President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia effective immediately.

RESOLVED further that provision be and is hereby made for continued payment of his salary from private funds of the University until June 11, 1956, at which time he will reach retirement age

A Committee having been appointed to prepare a statement summarizing the recent difficulties regarding the presidency of the College and announcing the Board's final action, Judge Barksdale, Chairman of this special Committee, read to the Board the following statement

In late November 1953, serious reports about conditions at Mary Washington College came to the Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia. It was reported to her by reliable sources that the students were highly disturbed and that a student riot against the Administration had been narrowly averted. In accordance with her obvious duty, she consulted the Rector, Mr. Barron Black, and with his approval, the Mary Washington Committee proceeded to investigate the situation, and reported to the Board of Visitors at its meeting on December 11, 1953, that complaints had been made against Dr. Morgan L. Combs, President of Mary Washington College. Upon receiving this report it was the conclusion of the Board that Dr. Combs should be notified of the charges against him and that he be given a full opportunity to explain them. By letter of December 12, 1953, Mr. Black wrote Dr. Combs as follows

"The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia, through its Mary Washington Committee, has received complaints regarding the administration of affairs at Mary Washington College, which are particularized as follows

"1. Supression of free expression of opinion at the College, insofar as any criticism of the administration is concerned

"2. Unjust and unfair action in the disciplining of students

"3. Autocratic attitude of the President in regard to the administration of affairs at the College, with the resultant practical disappearance of any form of student government.

"4. Arbitrary exercise of authority on the part of the President, accompanied by threats of reprisals if any deviation occurred in obedience to these arbitrary orders

"5. Violent outburst of temper on the part of the President when reprimanding students, and on other occasions, during which the President is said to have used profanity and other epithets and language not proper from a person in his position.

"As a result of these actions, the Board's Committee has been told that a great amount of indigantion and tension exists in the student body and among the parents of the students, and that the College and its students are being harmed by this situation

"Parents of two of the waitresses who were recently punished by the President have complained directly to the Committee, and have stated their intention of taking the matter up with the Governor or members of the Legislature in the event they do not receive satisfaction from the Board. Other complaining parties have appeared before the Committee

"It thus becomes the duty of the Board to inquire into these matters in order to ascertain the truth or falsity of these charges

"The Board has every intention of reaching no decision on these matters until a full and complete opportunity is given to the President to place before the Board his position in regard to these complaints. It, therefore, has decided to hold a special meeting in the President's Office at the University in Charlottesville, at 10 A.M. on December 22, 1953, in order to give the opportunity to the President to be heard, should he so desire

"I am directed specifically to request of you that the status of no person concerned in this matter shall be changed in any way at any time because of his or her appearance before the Committee or the Board, or because of having made statements in connection with these complaints, and that no reprisals be visited on him or her on that account."

On December 22, 1953, the Board met at Dr. Combs' request at Mary Washington College, and Dr. Combs was afforded an opportunity to make a full statement. Dr. Combs presented a written statement to each Visitor, and addressed the Board for more than two hours. A court stenographer was present and recorded all testimony of Dr. Combs and other witnesses during a session which lasted from 10:00 A.M. until after 6:00 P.M. After hearing the statements of Dr. Combs and the statements of seven other persons on this occasion, it was the opinion of the Board that the investigation should be continued. Arrangements were made for the Board to meet again at Mary Washington College on February 12, 1954, and to hear the statements of all persons whom Dr. Combs wished to make statements in his behalf, as well as the statements of others

On January 23, 1954, Jere Willis, Esq., an attorney at law of Fredericksburg, wrote to Mr. Black, the Rector, stating that he had been engaged as attorney for Dr. Combs. At the request of Mr. Willis for a conference with Mr. Black in Richmond, a conference was held in Richmond on February 10, 1954. Mr. Willis, his law partner Mr. Garnett, Mr. Thomas B. Gay of Richmond, then a member of the Board of Visitors, and Mr. Black, participated in this conference Mr. Willis suggested in the interests of Dr. Combs and of Mary Washington College, that the investigation of the charges against Dr. Combs be discontinued, and that if this were done, Dr. Combs might be willing to relinquish the administrative duties at the College provided he could continue in charge of new construction, fund raising and related matters, and retain the title of President

At the meeting of the Board at Mary Washington on February 12, 1954, the suggestion of Dr. Combs' attorney, Mr. Willis, was reported to the Board by the Rector, and the Board, deeming it to be in the best interests of the College, agreed to his proposal. Numerous persons were present prepared to make statements to the Board, but since the proposal made to the Board by Dr. Combs through his attorney had been accepted, it was deemed unnecessary to hear further statements, and accordingly none was hrd.

A Committee of the Board drafted a resolution, incorporating certain suggestions made by Dr. Combs through his attorney, which was adopted by the Board as follows

"WHEREAS, for several months past, the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia has been engaged in a careful investigation of substantial complaints concerning the administration of Mary Washington College by Dr. Morgan L. Combs in a manner adversely affecting student discipline and morale and proper faculty relations, and,

"WHEREAS, the Rector and Visitors is of opinion that a rearrangement of responsibilities for the administration of Mary Washington College is both necessary and desirable, and,

"WHEREAS, the Board's investigations have demonstrated the fact that administrative responsibilities heretofore assigned to President Combs are presently more than he is physically able to discharge in justice to himself and to the best interests of the College

"NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED (1) That in the discharge of his duties as the principal administrative officer of Mary Washington College, the President of the University of Virginia shall have and exercise in respect to Mary Washington College supreme administrative authority,

"(2) That in pursuance of this authority the President of the University of Virginia be and he hereby is authorized to delegate the performance of such duties in respect to construction and development, solicitation of funds, and related matters as he in his discretion shall determine, to Morgan L. Combs, who shall retain the title of President of Mary Washington College until his retirement or so long as his performance of such duties is satisfactory to the Rector and Visitors,

"(3) That the President of the University of Virginia is further authorized to delegate all other administrative functions of Mary Washington College, including faculty relations, student relations, curriculum, internal budget, and control to such other administrative official or officials as shall be designated by him with the approval of the Rector and Visitors."

Following the adoption of the resolution, Dr. Combs signed and delivered to the Board the following letter.

"I have read the resolution today adopted by the Board. It has my full approval and the implementation of it will have my full cooperation. In so doing I will

"1. Give my full and complete cooperation to any person or persons who are selected by President Darden to function in the manner contemplated by the resolution, and will so state publicly to the faculty, student body, and alumnae of Mary Washington College.

"2. I will address suitable letters, in form to be agreed upon between my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board, to all persons who wrote the Board regarding the recent investigation (a list of which will be furnished me by the Rector), stating that I agree with the action this day taken by the Board and that I am satisfied with the Board's disposition of the matter and its consideration and treatment of me

"3. That I will write suitable letters of apology to the parents of those young ladies who appeared in my office for disciplinary action in regard to the disturbances in the dining hall, in form to be approved by my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board

"It is understood that the administrative dean or other officer or officers designated by the President would require and occupy the office facilities now occupied by me

"I further understand that at some time prior to my retirement, the Board will expect to pursue the matter of securing a suitable successor as President of the College

Five weeks later, Dr. Combs wrote the following letter to some of those who had expressed interest.

"I am deeply grateful to you for the letter you wrote to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in my behalf. Your confidence in me has done much to reassure me and to keep up my morale.

"I am very glad to be relieved of many administrative details and other responsibilities at Mary Washington since the load I had been carrying for many years was too great for any one person to continue to carry. Many colleges half the size of Mary Washington have, in addition to a Dean of Instruction, a College Dean to take care of many of these matters, which we did not have

"I want you to know that the administrative changes were made with my knowledge and consent, after thay had been discussed at some length, and I hope in spite of unfortunate newspaper speculation, that they will work out to the satisfaction of all parties concerned.

"With warmest personal regards, I am,

On December 9, 1954, Dr. Combs delivered to the Mary Washington Committee at its meeting in Fredericksburg a letter charging that five members of the Mary Washington College faculty and staff had a conspiracy against him and that the then chairman of the Mary Washington Committee had given the alleged conspirators sympathetic support. These charges are completely unfounded

In the same letter, Dr. Combs charges his attorney, Mr. Willis, with acting on February 12th without his permission, and alleges that he, Dr. Combs, on February 12, 1954, acted under duress. Mr. Willis has positively denied that he, or anyone else, subjected Dr. Combs to duress or coercion of any kind, or that he effected a compromise without the full permission and knowledge of Dr. Combs

At to the scurrilous document recently circulated, entitled "The Whole Story at Mary Washington College", the Board of Visitors has no knowledge of its authorship and has made no effort to discover who wrote and circulated it. However, the Fredericksburg Free Lance-Star did conduct an inquiry respecting purported signatures thereto and reported the results of this inquiry in an editorial of March 23, 1955

"The results of our inquiry were surprising. All of the persons we could contact had signed some sort of petition - but they had signed petitions that varied considerably from the mimeographed one on which their names appear now. Some signed a petition they were told requested that MWC not be made a junior college. Others signed only a simple request for a new hearing for Dr. Combs. We could find only one man who said the 9-page paper being distributed under the title, \`The Whole Story at Mary Washington College', was the document that he had originally signed. The other 32 persons apparently were listed on the mimeographed document without their knowledge or consent."

Dr. Combs has not openly admitted authorship of this composition but he has stated to the Fredericksburg Free Lance-Star that he was aware of its circulation and familiar with its contents. It is not without significance that one of the signers of the paper stated to the press that he had signed the petition in Dr. Combs' office and at Dr. Combs' request. While the Board feels impelled to its present conclusions independently of Dr. Combs' part in this publication, it does wish to express its resentment of the completely false charges therein directed against the Rector, certain past and present Visitors, and members of the faculty and staff of Mary Washington College.

The Rector acted throughout this entire proceeding as an agent of the Board and with the full support of its members, with whom he was in constant communication

It now appears that the Board has been overly patient with Dr. Combs and     mistaken in its reliance on his promises. In its efforts to bring harmony and constructive force to bear in the administration of the affairs of the College the Board has heretofore left him with his title, with responsible duties to perform, and with his salary and other emoluments of office. He was asked in return only for cooperation with the plan of administration, to which he subscribed his full consent. He has now not only repudiated his agreement, he has gone to the length of bitter attack on important members of the College faculty and the administration. He is now completely at odds with the governing body of the College and with its Chancellor. It is clear to the Board that continued retention of Dr. Combs in any active capacity at Mary Washington would be against the best interests of the College. Accordingly, the Board has today unanimously adopted a resolution removing him from office, effective immediately

Provision has been made for continued payment of his salary from private funds of the University until June 11, 1956, at which time he will be eligible for retirement. The affairs of the College will be directed by Chancellor Darden pending election of a President in the place of Dr. Combs.

The Board resolved by unanimous vote that the foregoing statement be approved and adopted, that the Secretary be directed to prepare and to release copies of it to the press, but not earlier than 3:00 p.m. and in no case until Dr. Combs had been informed of the Board's action

The Secretary, in response to instructions to notify Dr. Combs by special courier of the Board's decision, prepared and read to the Board the following letter.

I am directed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to inform you that the following Resolution was adopted by the Board at the meeting held today

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Morgan L. Combs be and he is hereby removed from office as President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, effective immediately

RESOLVED further that provision be and is hereby made for continued payment of his salary from private funds of the University until June 11, 1956, at which time he will reach retirement age

At the request of the Rector, I am sending this letter to you by special messenger, who has been instructed to hand it to you personally, so that the Board's decision will be known to you in advance of its release to the public

I am enclosing, with the thought that you may care to have it in advance, a statement prepared by the Board that will be released to the press after this copy is delivered to you

The Board having approved the foregoing letter, the Secretary dispatched it to Fredericksburg, together with a copy of the press release quoted above, by Major James A. Bear, Jr., who at 2:20 p.m. reported by telephone his personal delivery of it to Dr. Combs

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED that President Darden as Chancellor of Mary Washing College shall assume the duties heretofore reposed in Dr. Morgan L. Combs and that he be authorized to delegate the same in whole or in part to such person or persons as in his judgment will serve the best interest of Mary Washington College until a successor to the office of President of Mary Washington College is appointed

The Board having resolved that a committee be appointed to find a new president for the College, the Rector subsequently named to this Committee Mr. Henry E. McWane, Chairman, President Colgate W. Darden, ex officio, Dr. John M. Emmett, and Messrs. George O. Ferguson, C. O'Conor Goolrick, and Benjamin W. Mears, as noted above.

On motion the meeting was then adjourned

The undersigned Cemetery Committee of the University of Virginia hereby submits the following recommendations to the President and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

1\. That the privilege of purchasing space in the University of Virginia Cemetery be rigidly restricted to the President and to members of the University of Virginia Faculty or to others as follows:

(a) the President, Active Full Professors, Associate Professors and Assistant Professors

(b) the Husband, Wife, Child or Relative of such above President and Professors who die without having acquired such space

2\. That the privilege of burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery be restricted to the above President and Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands and to said President, Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands who had reached their retirement age at the University of Virginia without having purchased space

3\. That after burial in either of the lots is made, the second lot will be available for use by the surviving husband and/or wife as the case may be. Should the surviving husband and/or wife not be buried in the second lot, then after the death of the second party said lot shall revert to the University of Virginia and reimbursement be made as noted below.

4\. Should space be purchased by any said President or Professor and he or she sever their relationship with the University of Virginia before either lot is used, then said lots shall revert to the University of Virginia, the right of burial in the University Cemetery shall be lost and the University of Virginia shall reimburse said President or Professor the payment for said lot

5\. The right of purchase of space and burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery shall be retained by any President or Professor who has to sever his relationship with the University of Virginia because of permanent illness of any kind

"I have read the resolution today adopted by the Board. It has my full approval and the implementation of it will have my full cooperation. In so doing I will

"1. Give my full and complete cooperation to any person or persons who are selected by President Darden to function in the manner contemplated by the resolution, and will so state publicly to the faculty, student body, and alumnae of Mary Washington College.

"2. I will address suitable letters, in form to be agreed upon between my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board, to all persons who wrote the Board regarding the recent investigation (a list of which will be furnished me by the Rector), stating that I agree with the action this day taken by the Board and that I am satisfied with the Board's disposition of the matter and its consideration and treatment of me

"3. That I will write suitable letters of apology to the parents of those young ladies who appeared in my office for disciplinary action in regard to the disturbances in the dining hall, in form to be approved by my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board

"It is understood that the administrative dean or other officer or officers designated by the President would require and occupy the office facilities now occupied by me

"I further understand that at some time prior to my retirement, the Board will expect to pursue the matter of securing a suitable successor as President of the College

"I am deeply grateful to you for the letter you wrote to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in my behalf. Your confidence in me has done much to reassure me and to keep up my morale.

"I am very glad to be relieved of many administrative details and other responsibilities at Mary Washington since the load I had been carrying for many years was too great for any one person to continue to carry. Many colleges half the size of Mary Washington have, in addition to a Dean of Instruction, a College Dean to take care of many of these matters, which we did not have

"I want you to know that the administrative changes were made with my knowledge and consent, after thay had been discussed at some length, and I hope in spite of unfortunate newspaper speculation, that they will work out to the satisfaction of all parties concerned.

"With warmest personal regards, I am,

I am directed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to inform you that the following Resolution was adopted by the Board at the meeting held today

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Morgan L. Combs be and he is hereby removed from office as President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, effective immediately

RESOLVED further that provision be and is hereby made for continued payment of his salary from private funds of the University until June 11, 1956, at which time he will reach retirement age

At the request of the Rector, I am sending this letter to you by special messenger, who has been instructed to hand it to you personally, so that the Board's decision will be known to you in advance of its release to the public

I am enclosing, with the thought that you may care to have it in advance, a statement prepared by the Board that will be released to the press after this copy is delivered to you

The undersigned Cemetery Committee of the University of Virginia hereby submits the following recommendations to the President and The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

1\. That the privilege of purchasing space in the University of Virginia Cemetery be rigidly restricted to the President and to members of the University of Virginia Faculty or to others as follows:

(a) the President, Active Full Professors, Associate Professors and Assistant Professors

(b) the Husband, Wife, Child or Relative of such above President and Professors who die without having acquired such space

2\. That the privilege of burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery be restricted to the above President and Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands and to said President, Professors and to their Wives and/or Husbands who had reached their retirement age at the University of Virginia without having purchased space

3\. That after burial in either of the lots is made, the second lot will be available for use by the surviving husband and/or wife as the case may be. Should the surviving husband and/or wife not be buried in the second lot, then after the death of the second party said lot shall revert to the University of Virginia and reimbursement be made as noted below.

4\. Should space be purchased by any said President or Professor and he or she sever their relationship with the University of Virginia before either lot is used, then said lots shall revert to the University of Virginia, the right of burial in the University Cemetery shall be lost and the University of Virginia shall reimburse said President or Professor the payment for said lot

5\. The right of purchase of space and burial in the University of Virginia Cemetery shall be retained by any President or Professor who has to sever his relationship with the University of Virginia because of permanent illness of any kind

"I have read the resolution today adopted by the Board. It has my full approval and the implementation of it will have my full cooperation. In so doing I will

"1. Give my full and complete cooperation to any person or persons who are selected by President Darden to function in the manner contemplated by the resolution, and will so state publicly to the faculty, student body, and alumnae of Mary Washington College.

"2. I will address suitable letters, in form to be agreed upon between my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board, to all persons who wrote the Board regarding the recent investigation (a list of which will be furnished me by the Rector), stating that I agree with the action this day taken by the Board and that I am satisfied with the Board's disposition of the matter and its consideration and treatment of me

"3. That I will write suitable letters of apology to the parents of those young ladies who appeared in my office for disciplinary action in regard to the disturbances in the dining hall, in form to be approved by my attorney, Jere Willis, and representatives of the Board

"It is understood that the administrative dean or other officer or officers designated by the President would require and occupy the office facilities now occupied by me

"I further understand that at some time prior to my retirement, the Board will expect to pursue the matter of securing a suitable successor as President of the College

"I am deeply grateful to you for the letter you wrote to the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia in my behalf. Your confidence in me has done much to reassure me and to keep up my morale.

"I am very glad to be relieved of many administrative details and other responsibilities at Mary Washington since the load I had been carrying for many years was too great for any one person to continue to carry. Many colleges half the size of Mary Washington have, in addition to a Dean of Instruction, a College Dean to take care of many of these matters, which we did not have

"I want you to know that the administrative changes were made with my knowledge and consent, after thay had been discussed at some length, and I hope in spite of unfortunate newspaper speculation, that they will work out to the satisfaction of all parties concerned.

"With warmest personal regards, I am,

I am directed by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia to inform you that the following Resolution was adopted by the Board at the meeting held today

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Morgan L. Combs be and he is hereby removed from office as President of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, effective immediately

RESOLVED further that provision be and is hereby made for continued payment of his salary from private funds of the University until June 11, 1956, at which time he will reach retirement age

At the request of the Rector, I am sending this letter to you by special messenger, who has been instructed to hand it to you personally, so that the Board's decision will be known to you in advance of its release to the public

I am enclosing, with the thought that you may care to have it in advance, a statement prepared by the Board that will be released to the press after this copy is delivered to you
