---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1957'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1957) June 7, 1957
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 7, 1957

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2006

Board of Visitors minutes

Official minutes

18 pages

The official minutes contain salary information.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARDGIFTS AND GRANTSELECTIONSRE-ELECTIONSELECTION OF DR. PAUL'S DERIAN CANCELLEDPROMOTIONSRESIGNATIONSRETIREMENTSAPPOINTMENTLEAVES OF ABSENCEUNCOLLECTIBLE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTSPROFESSOR EMERITUS TITLE CREATEDMESSRS. BALZ AND MANAHAN ELECTED PROFESSORS EMERITUSJOHN LANGBOURNE WILLIAMS MEMORIAL FUND ESTABLISHEDSTUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE REPORTREPORT OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE for the session 1956-57Statement of Receipts, Disbursements and Balances July 1, 1956 to May 1, 1957BALCH ESTATE ADJUSTMENTALUMNI ASSOCIATION RECORDS GRANTCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOANBUDGET FOR 1957-1958 ADOPTEDCLINICAL PATHOLOGY SALARY ADJUSTMENTSSALARY SCALES FOR FACULTY REVISEDSALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA FACULTYEffective September, 1957PRE-CLINICAL MEDICAL SCALE12 Months' Basis Effective September, 1957MR. KOWNACKI'S ELECTION TO FACULTY CONFIRMEDNORTHERN VIRGINIA COLLEGE TO BE OPENEDINTERVIEWING OF PROSPECTIVE FACULTY MEMBERSSTEVENS' GALLERY COURT SEWAGE LINE APPROVEDMOYSTON ESTATE TAX PAYMENT APPROVEDBURSAR TO ACT IN COMPTROLLER'S ABSENCEPROFESSORSHIPS WITH SPECIAL REMUNERATIONCLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE RENOVATION WORKROTUNDA RESTORATIONMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSRESOLUTION URGING RETENTION OF PRESIDENT DARDEN
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Mr. and Mrs. William H. White, Jr., to be added to the Mary Stamps Suhling Fund, securities valued at

$3,894.76

(NO PUBLICITY)

From Mr. John L. Pratt, for the Pratt Trace Analysis Laboratory

20,000.00

(NO PUBLICITY)

From Dr. John F. Anderson, to be added to the John F. Anderson Memorial Lecture Fund (NO PUBLICITY)

5,000.00

From Mr. John Puryear, for the hospital

250.00

From Mrs. Russell Mott, to the Hospital to be used for cancer research

200.00

From the estate of the late Mr. Conrad Hubert, to be added to the University endowment funds

$740.31

From Dr. Edwin P. Jordan, to the Medical School to be added to the National Fund for Medical Education

150.00

From the E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, for a fellowship in chemistry for the summer of 1956

1,500.00

From the Westinghouse Educational Foundation, for the Westinghouse Achievement Scholarship in electrical engineering for the 1957-58 session

500.00

From an anonymous donor, for the purchase of equipment for the Children's Rehabilitation Center

1,000.00

From the Old Dominion Fund, to help defray expenses of Dr. Edward Younger during his study in India

1,000.00

From Mr. C. Waller Barrett, to the Alderman Library, securities valued at

568.00

From JayCee Young Virginia, Inc., an unrestricted gift to the University

250.00

From the Virginia Chapter of the American Institute of Architects to the Alderman Library for the purchase of two volumes of O'Neal's list of Jefferson's Fine Arts Library

102.92

From Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, for a graduate fellowship in chemistry for a two-year period beginning June 15, 1957

6,000.00

From the Virginia Engineering Foundation, to the Engineering School

500.00

From Mr. Langbourne M. Williams, to be added to the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund

2,000.00

From the Sperry Gyroscope Company, for two undergraduate scholarships in engineering for the 1957-58 session

1,500.00

From the All-State Foundation, scholarships for the Driver Education Program conducted during the summer

2,500.00

From the Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity, for a law scholarship

200.00

From the estate of the late Mr. L. J. McCormick, for the Observatory

2,083.32

From the Burlington Industries Foundation, an unrestricted gift

471.00

From various sources, to be added to the Lehman Memorial Fund

5,845.11

From the following persons, to be added to the Frank Howard Lahey Memorial Fund

Mrs. Jennings Wise

300.00

Mr. F. M. Shu

100.00

Mr. M. N. Lo

200.00

From the University Hospital Auxiliary, to be used for the Hospital

125.00

From the Student Aid Foundation, for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1956-57 session

46,075.00

From the Alumni Association, for athletic grants-in-aid for the 1956-57 session

23,000.00

From the Alumni Association, for the School of Engineering

500.00

From Engineering Alumni, to be added to the Corporate Program of the General Electric Educational and Charitable Fund

180.00

From the Graduate School of Business Endowment Fund, for the Graduate School of Business

55,582.77

From the V. Club, for the V. Club Scholarship

400.00

From the Commonwealth Fund, for research in the Medical School

145,871.00

From the 1956 Alumni Fund, contributions made through that office for the following

Alderman Library

1,027.83

Tunstall Fund

25.00

International Studies

15.00

School of Education, summer scholarships

1,000.00

Teachers of Handicapped Children

$58.80

Medical School

8,585.10

Medical Library

165.00

University Chapel

404.00

John Gordon Memorial

5.00

Virginia Quarterly Review

30.00

Raymond I. Strauss, Jr. Memorial Fund

25.00

Cross Fraternity Scholarship Fund

1,000.00

Geology Department

525.00

Tuttle Music Fund

25.00

Manly Aylor Scholarship Fund

200.00

John Polzer Memorial Fund

500.00

Alumni Chemistry Library

3.95

School of Architecture

35.00

Department of Speech and Drama

1.00

From the Alumni Board of Trustees, for the following:

Hospital Parking Lot

60,000.00

Barksdale Chemistry Library

750.00

Barksdale Engineering Library

750.00

Jones Engineering Library

150.00

Cameron Scholarship

300.00

Epes Scholarship

250.00

Roper Scholarship

250.00

Selden Scholarship

500.00

Sarah Seward Scholarship

250.00

Simon Seward Scholarship

250.00

Watts Scholarship

250.00

From the Dearborn Foundation, for continued study of the foreign economic relations of the Soviet Bloc for an additional two years beginning in September, 1957

100,000.00

From the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness, a graduate training grant under the direction of Dr. W. O. Klingman

28,188.00

From the U. S. Public Health Service, a post-sophomore research fellowship grant under the direction of Dr. T. H. Hunter

3,766.00

From the Department of the Navy, for continued research in physics under the direction of Prof. N. Cabrera

5,600.00

Balance - July 1, 1956

$3,715.00

RECEIPTS

Student Fees

1st Semester

$10,410.00

2nd Semester

9,605.00

20,015.00

$23,730.00

DISBURSEMENTS

University of Virginia Magazine

$ 500.00

Radio Station WUVA

1,000.00

Corks and Curls

2,000.00

Cavalier Daily - for current operations

9,980.00

Cavalier Daily - invested for future furnishings & equipment

3,500.00

Jazz Fraternity - May concert

850.00

$18,080.00

Balance - May 1, 1957

$ 5,650.00

Jefferson Society (ltr. 3/14/57)

$ 75.00

Jazz Fraternity - concert (balance)

850.00

Year

Amount

Year

Amount

1959-64

$2,000

1986-91

$5,000

1965-76

3,000

1992-97

6,000

1977-85

4,000

3%

if redemmed May 1, 1968 through November 1, 1972 inclusive

2 1/2%

if redemmed May 1, 1973 through November 1, 1977 inclusive

2%

if redemmed May 1, 1978 through November 1, 1982 inclusive

1 1/2%

if redemmed May 1, 1983 through November 1, 1987 inclusive

1%

if redemmed after November 1, 1987

Junior Instructor

4,500

Interval - 12 months

4,750

Instructor

5,000

Interval - 18 months

5,250

5,500

5,750

Assistant Professor

6,000

Interval - 2 years

6,300

6,600

6,900

7,200

Associate Professor

7,000

Interval - 2 1/2 years

7,500

8,000

8,500

9,000\* \*Special Approval

9,500\*

Professor

8,800

Interval - 3 years

9,500

10,200

10,900\*

11,600\*

12,500\*

Instructor (Ph.D. required)

6,500

Interval - 18 months

6,800

7,100

7,400

Assistant Professor

7,500

Interval - 2 years

7,800

8,100

8,400

8,700

Associate Professor

8,500

Interval - 2 1/2 years

9,000

9,500

10,000

10,500\* \*Special Approval

Professor

10,500

Interval - 3 years

11,250

12,000

12,750\*

13,500\*

14,250\*

Department Head

11,250

Interval - 3 years

12,000

12,750

13,500\*

14,250\*

15,000\*

The meeting of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia was held on this date at 10:00 A.M. in the Office of the President of the University, at Charlottesville, with the following present: The Rector, Frank Talbott, Jr.; President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., and Visitors Berkeley, Coxe, Emmett, Hartfield, Pollock, Mrs. Smith, and Wheeler. Absent: Visitors Bryan, Gravatt, Gray, Greear, Jones, McWane, Martin, and Smith. Visitor (ex officio) Paschall again unavoidably absent, has not yet taken his seat upon the Board.

The minutes of the meeting of 27 April 1957, previously distributed, were approved.

There being a large number of absentees, the election of the Executive Committee was deferred until the next regular meeting, now scheduled for October 12th.

The President announced the following gifts and grants:

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty -

Mr. Edwin Wilhite Patterson as Visiting Professor of Law for the first semester of the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $6,250 for the semester.

Mr. George Bache Du Bois, Jr., as Instructor in Law for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,500.

Dr. Charles A. Norford as Assistant Professor of Education beginning in September, 1957, for three years, at a session salary of $6,600.

Dr. Richard L. Beard as Associate Professor of Education for three years, effective in September, 1957, at a session salary of $8,000.

Dr. Euqene C. Paiqe, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Mathematics for three years, as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000.

Mr. John E. Moes as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $6,000.

Dr. Addison E. Lee as Visiting Professor of Biology for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $8,800, to be paid from a grant from the National Science Foundation.

Dr. Robert J. Morgan as Visiting Associate Professor of Political Science for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $7,000.

Mr. John Vincent Graham as Instructor in English, effective September, 1957, at a session salary of $5,000.

Dr. Robert W. McGilvery as Associate Professor of Biochemistry, effective September 1, 1957, for three years, at a salary of $9,000, of which $7,500 is to be from the State budget and the rest from the National Fund for Medical Education.

Dr. A. Frölich as Visiting Professor of Mathematics for the second semester of the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,500.

Mr. John Geronimo as Instructor in English at Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $4,000.

Mr. Richard E. Windisch as Visiting Lecturer in Architecture for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $7,000

Mr. Edward Valentine Mochel as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing for three years, effective in September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000

Mr. Peter R. Goethals as Instructor in Anthropology, as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $5,000

Mr. John F. Leahy as Assistant Professor of Education for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $6,000, to teach extension classes in the Hampton Roads area

Dr. James Lawrence Meem, Jr., as Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Director of the Reactor Facility, at an annual salary of $12,000, effective July 1, 1957.

Mr. John Pershing as Lecturer in Law for the first semester of the session of 1957-58 at a compensation of $500

Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., as Junior Instructor in Commerce in the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce for the session of 1957-58, at a session salary of $4,500

Dr. Thomas L. Gorsuch as Lecturer in Internal Medicine, at no salary from the University, effective July 1, 1957.

Mr. Edward Victor as Assistant Professor of Education, beginning in September, 1957, for three years.

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby re-elected

Dr. Carolyne Khuri as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $6,000

Admr A. C. Murdaugh as Lecturer in Foreign Affairs for the session of 1957-58, part-time, at a salary of $2,933.33

Mr. A. W. Zelomek as Visiting Professor in the Graduate School of Business Administration, part-time, for the session of 1957-58, at a salary of $5,500

Mr. Stanley H. Botts as Instructor in Accounting for the session of 1957-58 at the Clinch Valley College

Mr. Henry C. Dunbar as Assistant Professor of Engineering for the session of 1957-58 at the Clinch Valley College

Miss Harriet H. Fillinger as Lecturer in Chemistry for the session of 1957-58 at the Clinch Valley College

Mr. Theodore W. Gibson as Assistant Professor of Mathematics at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58.

Miss Lucia S. Kegler as Instructor in Romance Languages at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58.

Mrs. Helen M. Lewis as Instructor in Sociology at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. Judd W. Lewis, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Philosophy at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58.

Mrs. Emma V. McCraray as Assistant Professor of Business and Commercial Education at Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58

Mr. Thomas D. Robinson as Instructor in Mathematics at Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58.

Mr. John C. Sheffield, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Education at Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58

Mr. Joseph C. Smiddy as Assistant Professor of Biology and Director of the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58

Mr. William Lester Wilson as Assistant Professor of English at the Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58

Mr. Frank L. Evans as Assistant Professor of History at Clinch Valley College for the session of 1957-58

Dr. Randolph T. Major as Acting Professor of Chemistry for the session of 1957-58

Mr. Charles A. Herring as Acting Assistant Professor of English in the Northern Virginia branch for the session of 1957-58

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Paul S. Derian as Instructor of Orthopedics, effective on 1 July 1957, as approved by the Board on 27 April 1957, be and it is hereby cancelled

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made

Dr. James W. Cole, Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry as of September, 1957

Dr. Stephan Berko, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics as of September, 1957.

Dr. John Francis Hahn, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology as of September, 1957.

Dr. John S. Plaskett, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics as of September, 1957.

Mr. Samuel Patterson Maroney, Acting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Biology for two years as of September, 1957.

Dr. Oscar Rodig, Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Assistant Professor of Chemistry for two years as of September, 1957.

Dr. G. Warren Nutter, Acting Associate Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics as of September, 1957.

Dr. Edgar Finley Shannon, Acting Associate Professor of English to Associate Professor of English as of September, 1957.

Mr. Rouhollah Ramazani, Lecturer in Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Foreign Affairs, for three years as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000

Mr. Frank W. Banghart, Instructor in Education, to Assistant Professor of Education for three years, as of September, 1957, at a session salary of $6,000.

Dr. Arthur J. Bachrach from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. O. B. Bobbitt from Associate Professor to Professor of Clinical Pathology as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Richard Garnett, Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Edwin W. Pullen from Assistant Professor of Associate Professor of Anatomy as of July 1, 1957.

Dr. Chester W. Bain, Assistant Professor of Political Science, to Associate Professor of Political Science, as of September, 1957.

Dr. Richard A. Meade, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education as of September, 1957.

Dr. William D. Whitehead, Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor, as of September, 1957

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignations of the following faculty members be and they are hereby accepted

Dr. William A. Jensen, Assistant Professor of Biology, as of the end of the session of 1956-57, to accept a position at the University of California

Dr. Charles A. Finnegan, Assistant Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of June 30, 1957, because of ill health

Mrs. Jean Carter Ogden, Assistant Professor of Extension Teaching, as of June 30, 1957, because of ill health.

Dr. Walter O. Klingman, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, as of June 1, 1957, to take a position at the University of Texas.

We wish for them the highest success in their new undertakings.

President Darden announced to the Board the retirements of Dr. Albert G. A. Balz, Corcoran Professor of Philosophy, and Dr. John Levi Manahan, Professor of Education, as of the end of the present session. Dr. Balz had served on the faculty of the University since 1913 and Dr. Manahan, Dean of the Department of Education from 1920 to 1949, had been a member of the University faculty as a full professor since 1916.

The Visitors expressed their high regard for Dr. Balz and Dr. Manahan and their gratitude for their devoted services to the University, and directed the Secretary to record in the permanent minutes of the Board and to convey to Dr. Balz and Dr. Manahan their good wishes for many years of happiness in their retirements.

The following resolution was adopted by the Board

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following appointment be and it is hereby made

Mr. Frank Kaulback, Professor of Accounting and Director of the McIntire Undergraduate School of Commerce, to be Dean of that School, effective in September, 1957

The following resolution was adopted by the Board:

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence without pay

Professor A. J. G. Priest, of the Law School, for the second semester of the session of 1957-58, to work on a book on public utility law.

Dr. G. T. Whyburn, Professor of Mathematics and Chairman of the Department of Mathematics, for the session of 1957-58, to do research for the Office of Scientific Research, Air Research and Development Command

The Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 681, 683, 684, 687, 690 and 691, aggregating $61,761.41, as recommended by it.

President Darden, proposing that the title of Professor Emeritus be created as an honorary rank in the University, laid before the Board (1) a letter of 1 May 1957 from the University's Special Counsel giving a legal opinion that the Board possesses authority (under Section 23-76 of the Code of Virginia, 1950) to create the title, and (2) an excerpt from the minutes of a meeting of the University Senate, held on 15 January 1957, at which the following resolution was adopted

I. That the title, Professor Emeritus, be established at the University of Virginia. That this title be conferred by the Rector and Visitors on faculty members of the University of Virginia upon the occasion of their retirement. (This title would automatically be conferred on all full professors retiring between the ages of 65 and 70 after at least 10 years of service at this University, and, in addition, all retiring members of the faculty may be considered for this title).

II. That the election of an individual as Professor Emeritus be announced at the Final Exercises in June and that thereafter his name and title be printed in the appropriate University catalogues.

III. That a Professor Emeritus have no salary or prerequisites \[sic\], no specific duties, no voice or vote in meetings of any of the Faculties of the University and no formal relation to the department or school of which he was formerly a member

IV. That qualified members of the Faculty who have already retired be invested with this title.

After discussion the Board adopted, on motion of Mr. Hartfield, duly seconded, the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the title of Professor Emeritus be and it is hereby established as an honorary rank in the faculties of the several schools and colleges of the University,

RESOLVED further that election to the rank of Professor Emeritus shall be by specific action of the Board of Visitors, in response to nominations made by the President of the University of the following categories of candidates: (1) full professors retiring between the ages of 65 and 70 after at least 15 years of service in the University of Virginia, and (2) former full professors who have previously retired between the ages of 65 and 70 after at least 15 years of service in the University of Virginia,

RESOLVED further that a person holding the title of Professor Emeritus shall have his name listed in the appropriate catalogues of the University, but that the possession of this title shall not in itself entitle him to any salary or perquisites, nor to any specific duties, nor to any voice or vote in University faculties, nor to any official relationship to any department, school, or college of the University.

In response to nominations by President Darden of Professors Balz and Manahan, who are retiring at the end of the present session, the Board adopted, on motion of Mr. Coxe, seconded by Dr. Emmett, the following resolutions

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Albert George Adam Balz, formerly Corcoran Professor of Philosophy, who has served on the University faculty since 1913, be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, effective upon the close of the present session.

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John Levi Manahan, formerly Professor of Education, who has served on the University faculty as a full Professor since 1916, be and he is hereby elected Professor Emeritus of Education, effective upon the close of the present session.

Referring to several gifts received in recent months from Mr. Langbourne M. Williams, President Darden read to the Board the following letter from Mr. Williams

I had been looking forward to having an opportunity to come to the University this fall and to discuss with you the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund about which I wrote you under date of January 18, 1955. As a result of Elizabeth's illness I was not able to carry out my plan. I provided in my letter that if I did not by December 31, 1956 designate how the income from this fund was to be used, the income was to be used for the general purposes of the University. Since I would like it to be used for a special purpose and since I have not for the reason mentioned been able to discuss it with you, I am writing this letter to set forth how I would like for this fund to be handled. If it is not satisfactory in every particular, I shall be delighted to come to the University some time next year to discuss it with you.

I would like the fund I have established in memory of my Grandfather to be known as the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund. The purpose of the fund is to further the love of learning at the University of Virginia I would like for there to be three trustees and suggest as the first three trustees Mr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Mr. Robert K. Gooch and Mr. William S. Weedon. While the language I propose obviously and intentionally gives the trustees quite broad powers, I would like to mention, as an example of the type of thing that I would like to see the income of the fund used to support, the Lower Division Seminars. The program has appealed to me very much as helping to provide the intellectual stimulation and the cultural preparation of the gentlemen and scholar that I like to think of as representing the University of Virginia.

I suggest that the trustees be self perpetuating and that they elect their own Chairman. If at any time the trustees fail to elect their successors or if for any other reason there should fail to be three trustees, I would like to provide that the trustees be appointed by the President of the University.

I would be glad if the committee would consult with me from time to time about the use to which they propose to put the income from the Fund but I would not like to stipulate that that be done.

As I have said, I hope that what I propose here will meet with your approval. If you have any suggestions of any kind, I shall be grateful if you will let me have them

With warm personal regards and hoping to see you before long,

There were expressions of appreciation and of praise for Mr. Williams' gifts and objectives

The Board resolved, upon motion of Mr. Hartfield, seconded by Mr. Berkeley, that the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund be established in accordance with the terms set forth in the foregoing letter.

The President presented the following Report of the Student Activities Committee

The Board of Visitors on April 14, 1956, resolved that the Student Activities fee of $5.00 be allocated to the Cavalier Daily and to other student activities by the Student Activities Committee which shall be charged with authority and responsibility under the President, to review and approve budgets submitted by the Cavalier Daily and other student activities. The Student Activities Committee was appointed by Mr. Darden on May 11, 1956

Since the appointment of the Committee it has met a total of twenty-two times. By written invitation and through press releases the purposes and functions of the Committee were made known. All student organizations were asked to present to the Committee their requests and needs.

The following student organizations appeared before the Committee at one or more of the above-mentioned meetings

University of Virginia Magazine

Virginia Spectator

Cavalier Daily

Corks and Curls

University Artist Series

Radio Station WUVA

The Barrister

Student Publicity Association

Close Harmony Group

Glee Club

University Band

University Players

Radio-TV Workshop

WTJU

Debate Team

International Affairs Association

University Speleological Society

Business School Magazine

Jefferson Society

National Jazz Fraternity

Following careful consideration of requests made by most of the above-listed organizations, and after due deliberation, the Committee allocated money from the Student Activities Fees as shows in the following statement.

The Committee felt itself charged to provide financial support, upon request, to those student activities which were organized to provide a service to the University as a whole and which could not properly expect departmental support

Appropriations by Committee not disbursed

John P. Ackerly

Irby B. Cauthen

M. Lindsey Cowen

Kenneth R. Crispell

William R. Edwards

Charles W. Faust

John W. Gray, Jr.

Henry L. Kinnier

Leigh B. Middleditch

B. F. D. Runk, Chairman

The Board resolved after discussion that the foregoing Report be received and made a part of the records of the Board.

President Darden presented to the Board a letter from Mr. R. Sturgis Ingersoll reading in part as follows

. . . Another subject has come up which I desire to present to you

The Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company was, as you may know, trustee of a trust under the will of Emily Swift Balch, the mother-in-law of our decedent, Emily Clark Balch. It was also trustee of the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch, the husband of our decedent.

The income from the estate of Edwin Swift Balch was payable to our decedent. The income from the Estate of Emily Swift Balch was, through the years, being accumulated for charitable purposes in accordance with the direction in Emily Swift Balch's will.

In preparing an account of the Emily Swift Balch Estate, the Trust Company has just discovered that an error occurred in 1939. A payment to our decedent in the amount of $500. was charged against the Estate of Emily Swift Balch instead of against the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch. The result, in substance, is that our decedent, in all probability, died $500. richer than she would have died if the error had not been made.

The question arises as to whether the Fidelity should stand the loss and reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch in the amount of $500. or whether you and Mr. Minor would think it fair for the Fidelity to reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch by a payment of $500. out of the respective shares of your two clients.

Trust Companies should not make errors but the curious similarity of the three Balch names does establish somewhat an excuse.

The President also exhibited to the Board a letter of 17 May 1957 from Mr. Richard Florance to Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel to the University, containing the following paragraph

Our Vestry decided that it was willing to have the Fidelity reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch, as to one third of the $500, by deducting it from the share payable to St. James. I assume that Mrs. Balch would have refunded the $500 received by her, to which she was not entitled. Since St. James's Church is the successor in interest of her share, our Vestry prefers to agree that this be done.

The Board resolved that the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company be authorized to restore to the Estate of Emily Swift Balch the University's share in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.) erroneously debited against that Estate in 1939

President Darden presented the following Memorandum from the Provost of the University

At a meeting with Mr. Malcolm Luck, Secretary of the University of Virginia Alumni Association, Mr. Knox Turnbull, Secretary of the Alumni Fund, Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University, and myself, we agreed on January 31, and by subsequent letter approved, to recommend that

1\. The University of Virginia agree, as requested by the Alumni Association, to contribute an additional sum of $12,500 yearly for the next three years. This contribution, plus the money now given, would total $25,000 paid annually by the University for the keeping of adequate records and other data necessary for University purposes.

2\. At the end of three years, namely March 31, 1960, the Secretary of the Alumni Association, the Secretary of the Alumni Fund, the Comptroller and the Provost will reevaluate the existing situation at that time to make any changes or adjustments that may seem feasible and desirable

In recommending approval of the proposed grant, the President observed that the compilation, correction, and adequate maintenance of alumni records are both costly and vital to the success of the Alumni Fund and other University purposes. He added that he had agreed to recommend the grant to the Board only after receiving assurances that there would be no requests for University funds for athletic grants-in-aid, and that the Alumni Association would make no demand upon the Alumni Fund to designate athletic scholarships or grants as an objective in the annual campaign

The Board resolved that the additional grant to the University of Virginia Alumni Association of twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500.) annually for the next three years be approved, in accordance with the recommendation and statement by the President and the conditions set forth in the Provost's Memorandum of 13 February 1957.

The President laid before the Board resolutions prepared by Mr. C. Venable Minor, Special Counsel to the University, for use in the procurement of a loan for the erection of faculty housing units at Clinch Valley College. It was the consensus of opinion on the Board that the resolutions should be adopted and the Governor's approval sought, and that the President should then use at his own discretion the authority thus obtained

The Board accordingly adopted, on motion of Mr. Hartfield, duly seconded, the following resolution

WHEREAS, the application of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency of the United States for loan assistance under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, in the amount of $150,000.00 has been approved by that Agency, said loan to be used for the erection at Clinch Valley College of the University of Virginia, of ten faculty housing units, consisting of one apartment house of four units and six single family homes at Wise, Virginia, designated as Project Va. 44-CH-9(D), and,

WHEREAS, it will be necessary for The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia to issue its bond or bonds evidencing said indebtedness of $150,000.00, and,

WHEREAS, under the provisions of Section 23-19 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, this institution has power and is authorized and empowered, by resolution of this Board, approved by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to issue its bonds evidencing said indebtedness of $150,000.00 for the purposes hereinabove set forth, said bonds bearing such date or dates, maturing at such time or times, bearing interest at such rate or rates not exceeding three per centum per annum, payable at such time or times, being in such denominations, being in such form, either coupon or registered, carrying such registration privileges, executed in such manner, payable in such medium of payment, at such place or places, subject to such terms of redemption, with or without premium, and containing such additional provisions, as such resolution or resolutions may provide, and are authorized under the provisions of said Section 23-19 of said Code of Virginia, and,

WHEREAS, a Loan Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1957 by and between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the United States of America, acting by and through the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, describing in detail the bonds to be issued, the amount, purchase price and purpose, their method of sale, a description of the project for which they are to be issued, audit and inspection expenses, and special conditions of issuance, has been submitted to this Board for approval, and,

WHEREAS, this Board has given careful consideration of said Loan Agreement, and, after full discussion thereof, has reached the conclusion that execution of said Loan Agreement on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia should be approved and authorized and that the issue of bonds evidencing said indebtedness of $150,000.00 for the purposes hereinabove set forth, under the terms and conditions set forth in said Loan Agreement should be approved and authorized by this Board,

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia

(1) That said Loan Agreement dated as of April 1, 1957, by and between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and the United States of America, acting by and through the Housing and Home Finance Administrator, in the form presented to this meeting, be and the same is hereby approved, and the Honorable Colgate W. Darden, Jr., President, be and he hereby is, authorized and empowered to execute said Loan Agreement in three counterparts in the name and on behalf of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, and Francis L. Berkeley, Jr., Secretary, be and he hereby is authorized and directed to affix thereto the seal of the corporation and to attest the same,

(2) That the bonds which The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "University"), agrees to issue and to sell under the terms of said Loan Agreement shall be as follows

(a) Designation Clinch Valley College Faculty Housing Bonds of 1957.

(b) Date November 1, 1957.

(c) Principal Amount $150,000, being all of an authorized issue of such bonds.

(d) Denomination $1,000, however, until such time as the purchaser or purchasers of the bonds request(s) the preparation of the definitive bonds, a single bond or bonds shall be issued in an amount equal to the bonds contracted for by said purchaser or purchasers

(e) Type Negotiable, serial, coupon bond, payable to bearer.

(f) Interest Rate 2-7/8% per annum, payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year, first interest payable May 1, 1958

(g) Maturities November 1, in years and amounts as follows

(h) Numbers 1 to 150 inclusive, in order of maturity

(i) Security Special obligations of The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, secured by and payable only from (1) a first lien on and pledge of the net revenues of the Project, as hereafter defined, and (2) a first lien on and pledge of the income and principal of a $15,000 Debt Service Reserve, as hereinafter described, consisting of direct obligations of the United States of America or negotiable securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, with market value to be maintained at the lesser of $15,000 or the unpaid principal of the loan.

(j) Place and Medium of Payment Payable as to both principal and interest at the principal office of the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, or, at the option of the holder, at a bank or trust company in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, in any coin or currency which, on the respective dates of payment of such principal and interest, is legal tender for payment of debts due the United States of America.

(k) Registerability Registerable, at the option of the holder, as to principal only.

(l) Redemption Provisions Bond numbered 1 through 21 inclusive, maturing November 1, 1959, through November 1, 1967 inclusive, to be non-callable. Bonds numbered 22 through 120 inclusive, maturing November 1, 1968 through November 1, 1992 inclusive, to be callable at the option of the University prior to the stated maturities thereof, in whole or in part and in inverse numerical order on any interest payment date after November 1, 1967 upon at least thirty (30) days' prior notice, at the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of redemption and a premium for each bond as follows

Bonds 121 through 150 inclusive, maturing November 1, 1993 through November 1, 1997 inclusive, to be callable at the option of the University in whole or in part and in inverse numerical order on any interest payment date during the entire life of the loan, upon at least thirty (30) days' prior notice, at par plus accrued interest to the date of redemption

Priority as to call shall extend to bonds numbered 121 through 150 inclusive over bonds numbered 22 through 120 inclusive.

(3) That all said bonds shall be issued and sold through the Treasury Board which is hereby designated the issuing, sales and paying agent of the University. The bonds are to be sold at public sale, the call for bids specifying that bids will be received and considered on the following basis

(a) For (1) all maturities in the years 1959 through 1973, (2) all maturities in the years 1974 through 1988, (3) all maturities in the years 1989 through 1997, and (4) the entire issue

(b) The University, at the option of the purchaser or purchasers, shall issue single bonds with face values in the amount of the respective purchases in lieu of individual bonds. Such single bonds shall be nonnegotiable, registered as to principal and interest and payable as directed by the purchaser or purchasers, but otherwise complying with the description set forth in Paragraph (2) hereof. The University covenants that if such single bond is issued, it shall, upon request of the holder of a single bond, issue at its own expense and within 90 days from the date of such request, negotiable bearer coupon bonds in denominations of $1,000.00, as described in Paragraph (2) hereof, in aggregate amount equal to that amount of the single bond still outstanding,

(4) That the Project for the erection of which said bonds aggregating $150,000.00 are to be issued shall consist of six single family dwellings and a four unit apartment building, each with necessary appurtenant facilities, to house ten faculty families at Wise, Virginia, said project being designated as Project No. Va. 44-CH-9(D),

(5) That the University covenants and agrees as follows

(a) As soon as any portion of the Project becomes revenue-producing, all rentals, charges, income and revenue arising from the operation or ownership of the Project shall be deposited monthly to the credit of a special fund with the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Virginia (State Treasurer), to be known as the "Project Revenue Fund Account" (herein called the "Revenue Fund") and held separate and apart from all other funds. The Revenue Fund shall be maintained, so long as any of the bonds are outstanding, and shall be expended and used only in the manner and order specified in (b), (c), (e) and (f) below

(b) Current expenses of the Project, as herein defined, shall be payable as a first charge from the Revenue Fund as the same become due and payable. "Current Expenses of the Project" (herein called "Current Expenses") shall include only the reasonable and necessary operating expenses, current maintenance charges, reasonable expenses of upkeep, repairs and replacements, a properly allocated share of charges for insurance and all other direct expenses incident to the operation of the Project including water for all Project buildings and heat for the apartment building only, but shall exclude electricity, depreciation, all general administrative expenses of the University and any payments into the "Reserve for Major Repairs" hereinafter provided.

(c) The University shall establish with the State Treasurer as a trust fund for the benefit of the Bondholders, and maintain so long as any of the bonds are outstanding, a separate account or accounts (known collectively as the "Bond and Interest Sinking Fund Account" and herein called the "Bond Fund") into which shall be deposited all accrued interest received from the sale of the bonds. Thereafter, as soon as any portion of the project becomes revenue-producing, and after providing for the payment of Current Expenses, the University shall transfer from the Revenue Fund, and from the Debt Service Reserve if needed, and deposit to the credit of the Bond Fund on or before each April 15 and October 15, such sums as may be necessary to meet one-half of the debt service on the outstanding bonds for the then current year

(d) The University shall, prior to the release to it of any loan funds, establish with the State Treasurer as a trust fund a separate "Debt Service Reserve Fund Account" (herein called the "Debt Service Reserve") into which shall be deposited at least $15,000.00 market value of marketable direct obligations of the United States of America, or negotiable securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The income from such securities and, if necessary, the proceeds of sale of all or part of such securities shall be deposited in the Bond Fund to the extent that on any April or October 15 the amounts deposited therein from the Revenue Fund may be insufficient to meet the current semi-annual debt service on the outstanding bonds. Should the Debt Service Reserve become impaired by shrinkage in market value or by withdrawals to meet debt service, and not be made whole before the next June 30th from other available funds of the University, the rentals charged for use of the Project for the next college year shall be increased by amounts sufficient to make up the impairment by the next following June 30th and to preclude further impairment. The funds in Debt Service Reserve shall be continuously invested as nearly as practicable and the University may direct substitution therein or may withdraw securities therefrom so long as the market value of the remaining securities in the judgment of the State Treasurer is at least equal to the lesser of $15,000 or the principal amount of the bonds then outstanding.

(e) The University shall establish with the State Treasurer as a trust fund a separate account called the Building Maintenance and Equipment Reserve Account (herein called the "Repairs Reserve") into which shall be deposited on or before the close of each fiscal year the entire balance in the Revenue Fund until the funds and investments in the Repairs Reserve shall aggregate $3,000. All monies in the Repairs Reserve may be drawn on and used by the University for the purpose of paying the cost of unusual or extraordinary renovation or replacement of the Project fixed equipment, kitchen ranges and refrigerators, and buildings, including maintenance, repairs, renewals and replacements not paid as part of the Current Expenses, and any such withdrawals shall be made up as soon as possible. However, in the event that the funds in the Bond Fund and the Debt Service Reserve should be reduced below the amount required to meet the then current semi-annual debt service on the outstanding bonds and the $15,000 Debt Service Reserve, funds on deposit in the Repairs Reserve shall be transferred to the Bond Fund to the extent required to eliminate the deficiency in that account.

(f) As soon as the required $3,000 has been accumulated in the Repairs Reserve, the University shall establish with the State Treasurer as a trust fund a separate Bond Redemption Fund Account (herein called the "Redemption Fund") into which shall be deposited any balance remaining in the Revenue Fund at the close of each fiscal year. Whenever the accumulated funds in the Redemption Fund are equal to $1,000 or more plus accrued interest and redemption premiums, if any, on bonds subject to redemption, such fund shall be used to redeem bonds in their inverse numerical order. When the funds and investments in the Bond Fund, the Debt Service Reserve, the Repairs Reserve and the Redemption Fund are together sufficient to redeem all of the outstanding redeemable bonds, such funds and investments shall be applied to redeem all such bonds.

(6) That the bonds to be issued shall be payable only from the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from said project for the erection of which the bonds are to be issued. Such bonds shall in no event constitute an indebtedness of the University, excepting to the extent of the collection of such revenues and receipts and the University shall not be liable to pay such bonds or interest thereon from any other funds, except said "Debt Service Reserve"; no contract entered into by the University pursuant to this resolution shall be construed to require the costs or expenses of operation and maintenance of said Project for the erection of which said bonds are to be issued to be paid out of any funds other than the revenues and receipts derived directly or indirectly from said Project,

(7) That neither the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, nor the members of this Board, nor any person executing such bonds shall be liable personally on said bonds or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof,

(8) That the University shall have power out of funds available therefor to purchase any bonds issued by it at a price not more than the principal amount thereof and the accrued interest. All bonds so purchased shall be cancelled unless purchased as an endowment fund investment. This paragraph shall not apply, however, to the redemption of bonds,

(9) These resolutions shall not be effective unless and until they and the issuance of said bonds for the erection of said Project are approved by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Copies of the proposed Budget for 1957-58 having been laid before the Board by the Finance Committee, the Comptroller appeared before the Board and presented a Budget Summary, which was ordered to be filed with these minutes. Mr. Shea pointed out that increased enrollments, rental and tuition fees, and gifts and grants would more than offset a reduced State appropriation, making the estimated revenues for 1957-58 higher by $462,000 than the revenues for the current year. Increased expenditures are proposed chiefly for filling vacant and new positions, to take care of increased enrollment of students, and for increased faculty salaries. Total revenues are estimated at $8,647,000, and expenditures at $8,544,000, with an anticipated surplus of at least $103,000

After discussion the Board resolved to adopt the Budget for 1957-58 as presented.

President Darden presented the following letter from Dean Hunter, together with a letter of April 16 from the University Comptroller endorsing the Dean's proposals

In the light of recent discussions with Mr. Shea, Mr. Stacey and Dr. Bobbitt, I should like to request approval of a revision of the compensation arrangements in the Department of Clinical Pathology designed to bring them more nearly in line with scale in other schools and with the Department of Pathology in this school. It is proposed that all earnings from private ambulatory patients be segregated in a special fund in the Bursar's Office in the name of the Department of Clinical Pathology, that costs to the hospital for the maintenance of these services be paid from this fund and the remainder be used to supplement the salaries of individuals in the Department of Clinical Pathology, the limits on these salaries to be the same as those in the Department of Pathology, namely, the old pre-clinical scale plus up to 50%. Any surplus remaining is to used at the discretion of the Department.

Under this arrangement I should like to recommend that Dr. Bobbitt's total income for the year beginning July, 1957, be $15,000.00 and that Dr. Hougie's be $10,000.00 for the same period. I should also like to recommend that in planning the finances of the Department, provision be made for a position of a biochemist at a salary of $10,000.00 a year. I hope very much that these recommendations meet with your approval.

On motion of Dr. Emmett, seconded by Mrs. Smith, the Board resolved that Dean Hunter's proposals, as set forth in the foregoing letter, be approved.

The President laid before the Board the proposed new faculty salary scales, provided for in the fee increases of last year, as follows:

Special Approval

Special Approval

The Board resolved that the revised salary scales, as set forth above, be adopted effective for the 1957-1958 session beginning in September, 1957.

President Darden, citing a letter of May 29th from Dean Quarles, reported that he had been unable to get further information on Mr. Stanislaw Kownacki beyond what was known at the time of the M. I. T. clearance. He reminded that Board that the election of Mr. Kownacki to the faculty on April 27th had been a provisional one, and stated that he intended now to confirm the election unless he should hear any objection from the Visitors. No objections were voiced.

After commenting on the lack of progress at a recent conference that he and Judge Bryan and Judge Smith had held with representatives of the Board of Control for Alexandria-Arlington-Fairfax-Falls Church, President Darden reported that there now exists a favorable opportunity to lease the old school building, erected about 1922 and recently vacated, at Bailey's Cross Roads. The President requested authority to proceed with the organization of the new college in leased quarters next fall, pending a decision regarding the permanent location.

On motion of Mr. Berkeley, seconded by Mr. Coxe, the Board resolved: (1) that a decision regarding a site for the Northern Virginia College be deferred, and (2) that the President be authorized to negotiate with the authorities of Fairfax County for the lease of temporary quarters and to proceed with planning toward the opening of the college in September, 1957.

President Darden again discussed the procedures now followed in the several departments and schools in recruiting and interviewing candidates for faculty positions. He noted that present practice mades demands on the President's time, with attendant complications to the faculties in scheduling visits, that appear unnecessary. He thought it desirable to relieve the President of some of the interviewing, and said that he would bring specific proposals to the Board, probably at the October meeting.

A letter from Mr. Donald G. Stevens, requesting permission to cross University property with a short sewer line, supplementary to the one authorized several years ago, was presented to the Board. President Darden noted that the supplementary line was required to take care of a new addition to the Gallery Court Motor Hotel on Route 29 North, that the crossing of University property was the only practicable solution for Mr. Stevens, that the request had been approved by Mr. O'Grince and Mr. Shea, and that it was proposed to retain the right to revoke the arrangement.

The Board resolved that Mr. Stevens' request, as presented by the President, be approved.

The following letter was read to the Board:

I have had some conferences and correspondence during the past several weeks with Charles E. Wheeler of Easton, Maryland, local counsel for this estate, with regard to the preparation of the second administration and distribution account and the Maryland estate tax return.

I enclose copy of the First Administration and Distribution Accounts filed at the time the Yoakum County Gas Company stock was turned over to Mrs. Moyston in order to liquidate that company. I also enclose copy of proposed Second Administration and Distribution Accounts, which I understand will be filed in the near future in the Orphans' Court for Talbot County, Maryland.

The value of the interest of the University in the Maryland estate distributed by these accounts (after deducting the value of Mrs. Moyston's life estate) would appear to be $581,220.13. Adding to this amount the value of the University's interest in "Little Timberneck" Farm, $6,107.48, the total value is $587,327.61. The Maryland inheritance tax on this amount (if it is decided to pay the tax at this time) would be $44,749.57. However, the Maryland estate tax payable by the estate in the event the University did not elect to pay the inheritance tax at this time would be $18,452.65, and since credit is given against this tax for inheritance taxes paid, the estate is willing, rather than pay this as Maryland estate tax, to contribute this amount toward the inheritance tax payable by the University, which would result in a net inheritance tax payable by the University of $26,296.92

On the other hand, since the present value of the Maryland residuary estate is about $950,000. an inheritance tax of about $71,000. would be payable by the University at the time of the transfer of the assets to it if no payment is now made by the University and if there is no change in the present value of the assets.

We have been advised that adjustments on audit of the Federal estate tax return will result in a deficiency not to exceed $25,000. Any deficiency would result in an additional Maryland estate tax. In answer to my inquiry, Charlie Wheeler assures me that the estate would also pay over to the University an amount equal to any additional Maryland estate tax which the estate would otherwise be obligated to pay if the University had not elected to pay the inheritance tax at this time

I believe, however, that the University should make the decision of whether it wishes to exercise the option to pay the tax at this time based upon the assumption that the Maryland inheritance tax payable at this time would be approximately $26,000. While the exact amount cannot be determined until the accounts are filed and approved and the Court passes upon a petition to determine the tax, I thought that it may be advisable to bring this matter to your attention so that a decision may possibly be made before the summer months and payment made at the appropriate time if it is determined that the option given by the Maryland Statute should be exercised.

If you have any questions concerning the matter or wish any further details, you will, of course, let me know.

I also enclose for the file of the Rector and Visitors certified copy of the final Decree of the Probate Court of Lea County, State of New Mexico, with respect to this estate. I previously advised you that the inventory value of the decedent's interest in real and personal property in New Mexico, as fixed by the appraisers of that State, is $532,990.85, and that the New Mexico inheritance tax (now 4%) will not be payable by the University until the property in that State is distributed to the University upon the death of Mrs. Moyston.

With best regards,

President Darden said that he concurred in the recommendation by Mr. Venable Minor that the University pay the Maryland tax of approximately $26,000.00 now (instead of facing an inheritance tax of approximately $71,000.00 later), and he suggested that the funds for payment be arranged as a loan from University endowment against the future inheritance of the Moyston property by the School of Law.

There was general agreement with this proposal, and the Board resolved that the President and the Comptroller proceed, in consultation with Mr. Minor, to arrange to make now the tax payment of approximately $26,000.00

Referring to Mr. Vincent Shea's forthcoming voyage to Chile as a civilian guest of the Secretary of the Navy to observe the NROTC Midshipmen's summer training, President Darden requested authority for the Bursar, Mr. David B. Moyer, to sign checks and perform other functions of the Comptroller during Mr. Shea's absence.

The Board adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED, that between June 15, 1957 and August 15, 1957 the Bursar as well as the Comptroller be authorized to sign checks disbursing the funds of the University, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Bursar shall perform such other duties as may be assigned him by the President or the Comptroller.

Referring to the proposals of Professor Emeritus Albert Balz for named professorships (a subject considered by the Board on 9 September 1955, 4 February 1956, and subsequently), President Darden said that he wished to obligate for special professorships the funds that have been raised by gifts for this purpose. He requested authority to name several such professors in the University at large and several in the School of Law, and to give them special compensation during the summer months.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to proceed in this matter.

President Darden requested authority to devote $3,000. to converting the old detention home, presented to the Clinch Valley College by Wise County, into faculty apartments.

The Board resolved that the President be authorized to devote $4,000 to this purpose.

Mrs. Smith and Mr. Hartfield inaugurated a further discussion of plans for the restoration of the interior of the Rotunda, presenting on behalf of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds the following report:

REPORT OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

The Buildings and Grounds Committee presents a replica of the Rotunda, made by a student in the School of Architecture \[Mr. S. Rex Whitehurst\] showing the original Jeffersonian design with elliptical rooms and towering dome. The completely documented plans are preserved in the Alderman Library. The interior was changed in 1895 by Stanford White, presumably for functional purposes.

The Rotunda has recently been listed in the Survey of Historical Buildings and Sites being recorded by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

The Committee further reports negotiation with a Foundation in an effort to enlist interest and secure funds for the restoration of the Rotunda to the Jeffersonian design. No decision or commitment by this Foundation can be made until mid-winter, but interest has been evidenced by the expressed willingness of a representative to visit and examine the Rotunda. We place on file the correspondence with the Foundation together with its reply.

Members of the Board examined the model constructed by Mr. Whitehurst, under Professor Nichols' supervision, to show the Rotunda as it was designed and built by Thomas Jefferson in the closing years of his life, but destroyed by fire on 28 October 1895.

Mrs. Smith requested that the Rector write a letter of thanks to Mr. Whitehurst for his good work on the model, and a letter to Mr. Monroe Bush to express the Board's appreciation for Mr. Bush's expression of interest in the proposed restoration.

The Rector thanked the Committee for the good work that had been accomplished, and the Board adopted the following resolution

RESOLVED by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Report of the Buildings and Grounds Committee be approved and accepted, and that the Report and accompanying documents be placed in the Board's files,

RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board approves the replacement of the rooms that were removed from the Rotunda by Stanford White, so that the interior structure and proportions will be as they were designed and built by Thomas Jefferson (according to the scale of the Pantheon) and as they existed from his death until the fire of 1895,

RESOLVED further that the Board's approval is conditioned only upon the necessity of procuring funds for the work from private sources, and that the Board encourages the Committee to continue its search for such funds.

The Rector read to the Board the following letter and enclosed resolution from the Secretary of the College Faculty

As Secretary of the Faculty I have the pleasant duty of enclosing the resolution which was adopted by the Faculty of Mary Washington College at its regular meeting on Monday night, May 13.

WHEREAS, President Colgate W. Darden, Jr., during his ten years as head of the University of Virginia, has provided this institution with able, constructive leadership, and has brought it closer to the needs and the spirit of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and

WHEREAS, he has brought distinction to the University and its curriculum by extending his career of public service into the field of international relations, and

WHEREAS, he has shown an enduring interest in the cause of education for women in Virginia and has worked diligently for both the establishment and the successful development of Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia, and

WHEREAS, recent press reports have suggested the possibility that he contemplates retirement within the near future:

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Faculty of Mary Washington College respectfully requests the Rector and Board of Visitors to make every effort to persuade President Darden to continue in his present position of leadership, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that copies of this resolution be sent to the Rector and the Secretary of the Board of Visitors and to President Darden, and that this resolution be made a part of the Minutes of the Faculty.

The Rector having informed the Board that he had written to Mr. Quenzel, assuring him of the hearty concurrence of the Visitors in the sentiments expressed by the Faculty, it was ordered that the foregoing resolution be recorded in the permanent minutes of the Board, and that the Secretary inform Mr. Quenzel of the action taken

On motion the meeting was then adjourned.

I had been looking forward to having an opportunity to come to the University this fall and to discuss with you the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund about which I wrote you under date of January 18, 1955. As a result of Elizabeth's illness I was not able to carry out my plan. I provided in my letter that if I did not by December 31, 1956 designate how the income from this fund was to be used, the income was to be used for the general purposes of the University. Since I would like it to be used for a special purpose and since I have not for the reason mentioned been able to discuss it with you, I am writing this letter to set forth how I would like for this fund to be handled. If it is not satisfactory in every particular, I shall be delighted to come to the University some time next year to discuss it with you.

I would like the fund I have established in memory of my Grandfather to be known as the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund. The purpose of the fund is to further the love of learning at the University of Virginia I would like for there to be three trustees and suggest as the first three trustees Mr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Mr. Robert K. Gooch and Mr. William S. Weedon. While the language I propose obviously and intentionally gives the trustees quite broad powers, I would like to mention, as an example of the type of thing that I would like to see the income of the fund used to support, the Lower Division Seminars. The program has appealed to me very much as helping to provide the intellectual stimulation and the cultural preparation of the gentlemen and scholar that I like to think of as representing the University of Virginia.

I suggest that the trustees be self perpetuating and that they elect their own Chairman. If at any time the trustees fail to elect their successors or if for any other reason there should fail to be three trustees, I would like to provide that the trustees be appointed by the President of the University.

I would be glad if the committee would consult with me from time to time about the use to which they propose to put the income from the Fund but I would not like to stipulate that that be done.

As I have said, I hope that what I propose here will meet with your approval. If you have any suggestions of any kind, I shall be grateful if you will let me have them

With warm personal regards and hoping to see you before long,

. . . Another subject has come up which I desire to present to you

The Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company was, as you may know, trustee of a trust under the will of Emily Swift Balch, the mother-in-law of our decedent, Emily Clark Balch. It was also trustee of the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch, the husband of our decedent.

The income from the estate of Edwin Swift Balch was payable to our decedent. The income from the Estate of Emily Swift Balch was, through the years, being accumulated for charitable purposes in accordance with the direction in Emily Swift Balch's will.

In preparing an account of the Emily Swift Balch Estate, the Trust Company has just discovered that an error occurred in 1939. A payment to our decedent in the amount of $500. was charged against the Estate of Emily Swift Balch instead of against the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch. The result, in substance, is that our decedent, in all probability, died $500. richer than she would have died if the error had not been made.

The question arises as to whether the Fidelity should stand the loss and reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch in the amount of $500. or whether you and Mr. Minor would think it fair for the Fidelity to reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch by a payment of $500. out of the respective shares of your two clients.

Trust Companies should not make errors but the curious similarity of the three Balch names does establish somewhat an excuse.

At a meeting with Mr. Malcolm Luck, Secretary of the University of Virginia Alumni Association, Mr. Knox Turnbull, Secretary of the Alumni Fund, Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University, and myself, we agreed on January 31, and by subsequent letter approved, to recommend that

1\. The University of Virginia agree, as requested by the Alumni Association, to contribute an additional sum of $12,500 yearly for the next three years. This contribution, plus the money now given, would total $25,000 paid annually by the University for the keeping of adequate records and other data necessary for University purposes.

2\. At the end of three years, namely March 31, 1960, the Secretary of the Alumni Association, the Secretary of the Alumni Fund, the Comptroller and the Provost will reevaluate the existing situation at that time to make any changes or adjustments that may seem feasible and desirable

In the light of recent discussions with Mr. Shea, Mr. Stacey and Dr. Bobbitt, I should like to request approval of a revision of the compensation arrangements in the Department of Clinical Pathology designed to bring them more nearly in line with scale in other schools and with the Department of Pathology in this school. It is proposed that all earnings from private ambulatory patients be segregated in a special fund in the Bursar's Office in the name of the Department of Clinical Pathology, that costs to the hospital for the maintenance of these services be paid from this fund and the remainder be used to supplement the salaries of individuals in the Department of Clinical Pathology, the limits on these salaries to be the same as those in the Department of Pathology, namely, the old pre-clinical scale plus up to 50%. Any surplus remaining is to used at the discretion of the Department.

Under this arrangement I should like to recommend that Dr. Bobbitt's total income for the year beginning July, 1957, be $15,000.00 and that Dr. Hougie's be $10,000.00 for the same period. I should also like to recommend that in planning the finances of the Department, provision be made for a position of a biochemist at a salary of $10,000.00 a year. I hope very much that these recommendations meet with your approval.

I have had some conferences and correspondence during the past several weeks with Charles E. Wheeler of Easton, Maryland, local counsel for this estate, with regard to the preparation of the second administration and distribution account and the Maryland estate tax return.

I enclose copy of the First Administration and Distribution Accounts filed at the time the Yoakum County Gas Company stock was turned over to Mrs. Moyston in order to liquidate that company. I also enclose copy of proposed Second Administration and Distribution Accounts, which I understand will be filed in the near future in the Orphans' Court for Talbot County, Maryland.

The value of the interest of the University in the Maryland estate distributed by these accounts (after deducting the value of Mrs. Moyston's life estate) would appear to be $581,220.13. Adding to this amount the value of the University's interest in "Little Timberneck" Farm, $6,107.48, the total value is $587,327.61. The Maryland inheritance tax on this amount (if it is decided to pay the tax at this time) would be $44,749.57. However, the Maryland estate tax payable by the estate in the event the University did not elect to pay the inheritance tax at this time would be $18,452.65, and since credit is given against this tax for inheritance taxes paid, the estate is willing, rather than pay this as Maryland estate tax, to contribute this amount toward the inheritance tax payable by the University, which would result in a net inheritance tax payable by the University of $26,296.92

On the other hand, since the present value of the Maryland residuary estate is about $950,000. an inheritance tax of about $71,000. would be payable by the University at the time of the transfer of the assets to it if no payment is now made by the University and if there is no change in the present value of the assets.

We have been advised that adjustments on audit of the Federal estate tax return will result in a deficiency not to exceed $25,000. Any deficiency would result in an additional Maryland estate tax. In answer to my inquiry, Charlie Wheeler assures me that the estate would also pay over to the University an amount equal to any additional Maryland estate tax which the estate would otherwise be obligated to pay if the University had not elected to pay the inheritance tax at this time

I believe, however, that the University should make the decision of whether it wishes to exercise the option to pay the tax at this time based upon the assumption that the Maryland inheritance tax payable at this time would be approximately $26,000. While the exact amount cannot be determined until the accounts are filed and approved and the Court passes upon a petition to determine the tax, I thought that it may be advisable to bring this matter to your attention so that a decision may possibly be made before the summer months and payment made at the appropriate time if it is determined that the option given by the Maryland Statute should be exercised.

If you have any questions concerning the matter or wish any further details, you will, of course, let me know.

I also enclose for the file of the Rector and Visitors certified copy of the final Decree of the Probate Court of Lea County, State of New Mexico, with respect to this estate. I previously advised you that the inventory value of the decedent's interest in real and personal property in New Mexico, as fixed by the appraisers of that State, is $532,990.85, and that the New Mexico inheritance tax (now 4%) will not be payable by the University until the property in that State is distributed to the University upon the death of Mrs. Moyston.

With best regards,

REPORT OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

The Buildings and Grounds Committee presents a replica of the Rotunda, made by a student in the School of Architecture \[Mr. S. Rex Whitehurst\] showing the original Jeffersonian design with elliptical rooms and towering dome. The completely documented plans are preserved in the Alderman Library. The interior was changed in 1895 by Stanford White, presumably for functional purposes.

The Rotunda has recently been listed in the Survey of Historical Buildings and Sites being recorded by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

The Committee further reports negotiation with a Foundation in an effort to enlist interest and secure funds for the restoration of the Rotunda to the Jeffersonian design. No decision or commitment by this Foundation can be made until mid-winter, but interest has been evidenced by the expressed willingness of a representative to visit and examine the Rotunda. We place on file the correspondence with the Foundation together with its reply.

As Secretary of the Faculty I have the pleasant duty of enclosing the resolution which was adopted by the Faculty of Mary Washington College at its regular meeting on Monday night, May 13.

I had been looking forward to having an opportunity to come to the University this fall and to discuss with you the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund about which I wrote you under date of January 18, 1955. As a result of Elizabeth's illness I was not able to carry out my plan. I provided in my letter that if I did not by December 31, 1956 designate how the income from this fund was to be used, the income was to be used for the general purposes of the University. Since I would like it to be used for a special purpose and since I have not for the reason mentioned been able to discuss it with you, I am writing this letter to set forth how I would like for this fund to be handled. If it is not satisfactory in every particular, I shall be delighted to come to the University some time next year to discuss it with you.

I would like the fund I have established in memory of my Grandfather to be known as the John Langbourne Williams Memorial Fund. The purpose of the fund is to further the love of learning at the University of Virginia I would like for there to be three trustees and suggest as the first three trustees Mr. Allan T. Gwathmey, Mr. Robert K. Gooch and Mr. William S. Weedon. While the language I propose obviously and intentionally gives the trustees quite broad powers, I would like to mention, as an example of the type of thing that I would like to see the income of the fund used to support, the Lower Division Seminars. The program has appealed to me very much as helping to provide the intellectual stimulation and the cultural preparation of the gentlemen and scholar that I like to think of as representing the University of Virginia.

I suggest that the trustees be self perpetuating and that they elect their own Chairman. If at any time the trustees fail to elect their successors or if for any other reason there should fail to be three trustees, I would like to provide that the trustees be appointed by the President of the University.

I would be glad if the committee would consult with me from time to time about the use to which they propose to put the income from the Fund but I would not like to stipulate that that be done.

As I have said, I hope that what I propose here will meet with your approval. If you have any suggestions of any kind, I shall be grateful if you will let me have them

With warm personal regards and hoping to see you before long,

. . . Another subject has come up which I desire to present to you

The Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company was, as you may know, trustee of a trust under the will of Emily Swift Balch, the mother-in-law of our decedent, Emily Clark Balch. It was also trustee of the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch, the husband of our decedent.

The income from the estate of Edwin Swift Balch was payable to our decedent. The income from the Estate of Emily Swift Balch was, through the years, being accumulated for charitable purposes in accordance with the direction in Emily Swift Balch's will.

In preparing an account of the Emily Swift Balch Estate, the Trust Company has just discovered that an error occurred in 1939. A payment to our decedent in the amount of $500. was charged against the Estate of Emily Swift Balch instead of against the Estate of Edwin Swift Balch. The result, in substance, is that our decedent, in all probability, died $500. richer than she would have died if the error had not been made.

The question arises as to whether the Fidelity should stand the loss and reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch in the amount of $500. or whether you and Mr. Minor would think it fair for the Fidelity to reimburse the Estate of Emily Swift Balch by a payment of $500. out of the respective shares of your two clients.

Trust Companies should not make errors but the curious similarity of the three Balch names does establish somewhat an excuse.

At a meeting with Mr. Malcolm Luck, Secretary of the University of Virginia Alumni Association, Mr. Knox Turnbull, Secretary of the Alumni Fund, Mr. Vincent Shea, Comptroller of the University, and myself, we agreed on January 31, and by subsequent letter approved, to recommend that

1\. The University of Virginia agree, as requested by the Alumni Association, to contribute an additional sum of $12,500 yearly for the next three years. This contribution, plus the money now given, would total $25,000 paid annually by the University for the keeping of adequate records and other data necessary for University purposes.

2\. At the end of three years, namely March 31, 1960, the Secretary of the Alumni Association, the Secretary of the Alumni Fund, the Comptroller and the Provost will reevaluate the existing situation at that time to make any changes or adjustments that may seem feasible and desirable

In the light of recent discussions with Mr. Shea, Mr. Stacey and Dr. Bobbitt, I should like to request approval of a revision of the compensation arrangements in the Department of Clinical Pathology designed to bring them more nearly in line with scale in other schools and with the Department of Pathology in this school. It is proposed that all earnings from private ambulatory patients be segregated in a special fund in the Bursar's Office in the name of the Department of Clinical Pathology, that costs to the hospital for the maintenance of these services be paid from this fund and the remainder be used to supplement the salaries of individuals in the Department of Clinical Pathology, the limits on these salaries to be the same as those in the Department of Pathology, namely, the old pre-clinical scale plus up to 50%. Any surplus remaining is to used at the discretion of the Department.

Under this arrangement I should like to recommend that Dr. Bobbitt's total income for the year beginning July, 1957, be $15,000.00 and that Dr. Hougie's be $10,000.00 for the same period. I should also like to recommend that in planning the finances of the Department, provision be made for a position of a biochemist at a salary of $10,000.00 a year. I hope very much that these recommendations meet with your approval.

I have had some conferences and correspondence during the past several weeks with Charles E. Wheeler of Easton, Maryland, local counsel for this estate, with regard to the preparation of the second administration and distribution account and the Maryland estate tax return.

I enclose copy of the First Administration and Distribution Accounts filed at the time the Yoakum County Gas Company stock was turned over to Mrs. Moyston in order to liquidate that company. I also enclose copy of proposed Second Administration and Distribution Accounts, which I understand will be filed in the near future in the Orphans' Court for Talbot County, Maryland.

The value of the interest of the University in the Maryland estate distributed by these accounts (after deducting the value of Mrs. Moyston's life estate) would appear to be $581,220.13. Adding to this amount the value of the University's interest in "Little Timberneck" Farm, $6,107.48, the total value is $587,327.61. The Maryland inheritance tax on this amount (if it is decided to pay the tax at this time) would be $44,749.57. However, the Maryland estate tax payable by the estate in the event the University did not elect to pay the inheritance tax at this time would be $18,452.65, and since credit is given against this tax for inheritance taxes paid, the estate is willing, rather than pay this as Maryland estate tax, to contribute this amount toward the inheritance tax payable by the University, which would result in a net inheritance tax payable by the University of $26,296.92

On the other hand, since the present value of the Maryland residuary estate is about $950,000. an inheritance tax of about $71,000. would be payable by the University at the time of the transfer of the assets to it if no payment is now made by the University and if there is no change in the present value of the assets.

We have been advised that adjustments on audit of the Federal estate tax return will result in a deficiency not to exceed $25,000. Any deficiency would result in an additional Maryland estate tax. In answer to my inquiry, Charlie Wheeler assures me that the estate would also pay over to the University an amount equal to any additional Maryland estate tax which the estate would otherwise be obligated to pay if the University had not elected to pay the inheritance tax at this time

I believe, however, that the University should make the decision of whether it wishes to exercise the option to pay the tax at this time based upon the assumption that the Maryland inheritance tax payable at this time would be approximately $26,000. While the exact amount cannot be determined until the accounts are filed and approved and the Court passes upon a petition to determine the tax, I thought that it may be advisable to bring this matter to your attention so that a decision may possibly be made before the summer months and payment made at the appropriate time if it is determined that the option given by the Maryland Statute should be exercised.

If you have any questions concerning the matter or wish any further details, you will, of course, let me know.

I also enclose for the file of the Rector and Visitors certified copy of the final Decree of the Probate Court of Lea County, State of New Mexico, with respect to this estate. I previously advised you that the inventory value of the decedent's interest in real and personal property in New Mexico, as fixed by the appraisers of that State, is $532,990.85, and that the New Mexico inheritance tax (now 4%) will not be payable by the University until the property in that State is distributed to the University upon the death of Mrs. Moyston.

With best regards,

REPORT OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE

The Buildings and Grounds Committee presents a replica of the Rotunda, made by a student in the School of Architecture \[Mr. S. Rex Whitehurst\] showing the original Jeffersonian design with elliptical rooms and towering dome. The completely documented plans are preserved in the Alderman Library. The interior was changed in 1895 by Stanford White, presumably for functional purposes.

The Rotunda has recently been listed in the Survey of Historical Buildings and Sites being recorded by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

The Committee further reports negotiation with a Foundation in an effort to enlist interest and secure funds for the restoration of the Rotunda to the Jeffersonian design. No decision or commitment by this Foundation can be made until mid-winter, but interest has been evidenced by the expressed willingness of a representative to visit and examine the Rotunda. We place on file the correspondence with the Foundation together with its reply.

As Secretary of the Faculty I have the pleasant duty of enclosing the resolution which was adopted by the Faculty of Mary Washington College at its regular meeting on Monday night, May 13.
