---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1970'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1970) April 11, 1970
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 11, 1970

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CHARLOTTESVILLE 22903 PAVILION VIII, EAST LAWN 11 April 1970
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:06 a.m. on 11 April in the Office of the President at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Brown, Cross, J. Harrison, W. Harrison, Kendig, Kuykendall, Lewis, Mattern, Parrish, Polly, Potter, Santarelli, Wheatley, and Wilkinson. Absent: Visitor Barrett. Leigh B. Middleditch was present throughout the meeting. Messrs. Vincent Shea and Grellet C. Simpson were present for a portion of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of 9 March, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Secretary announced to the Board the appointments by the Governor of Lawrence Lewis, Jr. of Richmond, Edwin K. Mattern of Roanoke, Brownie E. Polly, Jr., of Big Stone Gap, Donald E. Santarelli of Alexandria, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, of Charlottesville.

VACANCIES ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
------------------------------------

In accordance with the requirements of Section 3.1 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966, the Rector called for the election by the Board of two Visitors to serve on the Executive Committee until the next Annual Meeting in June. Visitors Barrett and Wheatley were unanimously elected to fill the vacancies on the Executive Committee resulting from the retirement of Messrs. Lewis M. Walker, Jr. and J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. from the Board on 28 February 1970.

APPOINTMENT OF THE STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Richard S. CrossDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. Donald E. Santarelli Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Richard S. CrossDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Medical CommitteeDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanMr. Edwin K. MatternMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallMr. William S. Potter

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

MEETING DATES FOR 1971
----------------------

11, 12, 13 February 1971

Charlottesville

1, 2, 3 April 1971

Fredericksburg

2, 3, 4 June 1971

Charlottesville

29, 30 September and 1 October 1971

Charlottesville

9, 10, 11 December 1971

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tentative locations and meeting dates of the Board of Visitors for the calendar year 1971 shall be as set forth below, subject to final confirmation by the Board at its meeting in December 1970: 11, 12, 13 February 1971Charlottesville1, 2, 3 April 1971Fredericksburg2, 3, 4 June 1971Charlottesville29, 30 September and 1 October 1971Charlottesville9, 10, 11 December 1971Charlottesville

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Susan Abrams as Assistant Professor of German, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Brandt R. Allen as Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ralph O. Allen, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William I. Bacchus as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Houston A. Baker, as Associate Professor of English, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Josef J. Barton as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles A. Barrett as University Lecturer in Materials Science, for two months, effective 1 March 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Alexander W. Bell as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edward I. Berry as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Larry S. Bowen as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harold J. Burbach as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert L. Canady as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Dale W. Cannon as Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Theodore Caplow as Professor of Sociology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Shu-Kwan Chan as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Gay A. Clifford as Visiting Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971, at a salary of $.Mr. Daniel T. Devereaux as Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles B. Dew as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $Mr. Carl A. Erdman as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas H. Estes as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Justiniano B. Fernandez-Campa as Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective 1 June 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Rowland Fivaz as Visiting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Eliezer Gildeadi as University Lecturer in Materials Science, for two months, effective 1 July 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. H. Grant Goodell as Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Seymour E. Goodman as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas C. Gordon, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. John D. Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Karen M. Hayden as Instructor in English, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert W. Hearn as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $Mrs. Marlis M. Hemphill as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Stanley D. Henderson as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $Mr. A. Dexter Hinckley as Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. D. Brock Hornby as Assistant Professor of Law, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Yukon Huang as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Mary Catherine Huey as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles Jones as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. James M. Kauffman as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Sandra L. Kellogg as Instructor, for one year, effective 1 May 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Thomas G. Kessinger as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter F. Korte as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. N. Kenneth LaFleur as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eugene D. Markowski as Associate Professor of Art, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Ake E. Mattsson as Professor of Psychiatry and of Pediatrics, effective 1 August 1970, at an annual salary of $.Miss Eleanor G. May as Lecturer in Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Nancy P. McKinney as Instructor in Nursing, one-half time, for one year, effective 16 March 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Robert G. McLaughlin as Acting Assistant Professor of Drama, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Erik H. C. Midelfort as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jon D. Mikalson as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard W. Nau as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Bruce W. Nelson as Visiting Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Dr. Richard M. Newton as Lecturer in Internal Medicine for one year, effective 1 April 1970.Mr. Henry R. Odell as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William E. Odum as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edgar O. Olsen as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John L. Pfaltz as Associate Professor of Computer Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph A. Porter as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo as Instructor in Spanish, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Malcolm M. Provus as Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao as Visiting Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971, at a salary of $.Mr. Austen F. Riggs, II, as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Julius E. Rivers as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eugene E. Ruyle as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Walter Sablinsky as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Andrew L. Schilbe, Jr., as Instructor in Engineering Drawing, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Victor E. Schwartz as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Warren E. Schwartz as Professor of Law, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Edward R. Slaughter, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Carl P. Spirito as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gordon M. Stewart as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph E. Strzepek as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard S. Trandel as Instructor in Engineering Drawing, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Grant Walker as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gerald Wallace as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph R. Washington, Jr., as Professor of Religious Studies, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard A. Waswo as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Patricia J. Widhalm as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF JOSEPH L. VAUGHAN AS JOSEPH L. VAUGHAN PROFESSOR OF HUMANITIES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan be and he is hereby elected Joseph L. Vaughan Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. PETER H. TAYLOR AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Peter H. Taylor be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT S. STEPLEMAN
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the term of the election of Mr. Robert S. Stepleman as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, as approved by the Board on 6 June 1969, be changed from two years to three years, effective 1 September 1969.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Miss Marjorie G. Baker as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. Lester F. Belter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Logan V. Cockrum as Associate Professor of Education, for two years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Raymond Cormier as Assistant Professor of French, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Bernard Dunau as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. Ivar P. Enge as Visiting Professor of Radiology, for the period 1 April 1970 through 30 September 1970.Mr. John R. Faulkner as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two years, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Jayne G. Jackson as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Miss Charlotte E. Kohler as Associate Professor of English, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. William S. McKee as Assistant Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. Willys M. Monroe as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Dr. E. D. Vere Nicoll as Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Donald E. Ramirez as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil as Associate Professor of Spanish, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Walter B. Ross as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Andrew T. Sammataro as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. Franz Schubert as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Robert F. Selden, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective 1 July 1969.Mr. Robert L. Vickery as Professor of Architecture, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Edward A. Wayne as Eleanor F. and Philip G. Rust Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Alfred Zawadowski as Visiting Associate Professor of Physics, for the period 1 February 1970 through 31 October 1970.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD H. AUSTIN
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Richard H. Austin as Assistant Professor and Director, Science-Technology Information Center, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, as approved by the Board on 7 February 1970, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Richard R. Abidin, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. W. Lester S. Andrews, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas W. Best, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. William L. Broit, Associate Professor, to Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Fredrick Davidson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles F. Dunkl, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Samuel S. Fisher, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Associate Professor, to Professor of Humanities, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Marvin J. Homzie, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. James S. Howland, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. C. Alan Hutchinson, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ira D. Jacobson, from Lecturer, to Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Nathan E. Johnson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Arthur C. Kirsch, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective 1 September 1971, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert D. Landel, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor, of Business Administration, for five years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. K. Edward Lay, Jr., from Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. David W. Lewis, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald G. Loach, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Eugene A. Lovelace, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bennett T. McCallum, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Donald L. McGrady, Associate Professor, to Professor of Spanish, effective 1 September 1971, at a session salary of $.Mr. John H. Moore, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carlo Pelliccia, from Associate Professor, to Professor of Architecture, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frank S. Quinn, Jr., Lecturer, to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Rogers C. Ritter, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Marvin S. Schindler, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus $for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Donald H. Shoemaker, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Alton L. Taylor, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Ertle Thompson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles R. Tolbert, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Dan O. Via, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Religious Studies, effective 1 September 1971, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Martin C. Battestin, Professor of English, for one semester, effective 1 February 1971, without pay, to accept a position as Senior Fellow in the Council of the Humanities, Princeton University.Mr. Thomas S. Currier, Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to gain further practical experience by service in a large urban law firm.Mr. Edwin E. Floyd, Robert C. Taylor Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Georgia.Mr. Charles H. Giffen, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to carry out research in Europe, on a Sloan Foundation Fellowship.Mr. David B. Harned, Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to accept a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. Tom G. Kessinger, Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to complete doctoral dissertation.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Associate Provost for Research, for the period 1 March 1970 through 31 August 1970, with half-pay, to serve as President of the Universities Space Research Association.Dr. Regina McCormack, Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, without pay, to participate in the establishment of a program for nurse-practitioners at the Martin Luther King, Jr., Health Care Center, New York.Mr. William E. Odum, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, to complete a one-year postdoctoral research program at the University of British Columbia.Mr. Robert H. Owens, Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to serve as mathematician in the Office of Naval Research, London.Mr. Kenneth R. Redden, Professor of Law, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to complete his project in assisting to reform legal education and the legal system in South Vietnam.Mr. Alexander Sedgwick, Associate Professor of History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to complete study of Jansenism in Early Modern France.Mr. Dan O. Via, Jr., Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to accept a postdoctoral research fellowship awarded by the Society for Religion in Higher Education, University of Strasbourg.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Dr. Norman H. Bass, from Assistant Professor of Neurology, to Assistant Professor of Pharmacology and Neurology, for the period 1 February 1970 through 30 June 1970.Mr. Robert T. Canevari, from Instructor and Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, to Instructor and Dean of Students, for the period 3 February 1970 through 31 July 1970.Dr. Donald C. Hammond, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Consultant to the Counseling Center, for the period 3 February 1970 through 30 June 1971.Mr. George M. Hornberger, from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three years, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. Joseph A. McKinney, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. Earl P. Smith, Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period 1 February 1970 through 30 June 1972.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Hermann A. Bluemel, Senior Astronomy Research Assistant, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1970.Mr. Werner Frewer, Senior Physics Research Assistant, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1970.Mr. Robert P. Redick, Senior Astronomy Research Assistant, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1970.Mr. Curtis W. Sprouse, Senior Physics Research Assistant, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1970.Mr. William B. Walton, Sr., Senior Physics Research Assistant, at an annual salary of $, effective 1 January 1970.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. J. Roger Bain, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at the University of Akron.Mrs. Zula Mae Baber Bice, Associate Professor of Nursing, effective 1 September 1970, for personal reasons.Mr. Roger H. Clark, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at North Carolina State University.Dr. L. Emmett Elledge, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective 30 June 1970, to continue education.Mr. Phillip F. Herring, Assistant Professor of English, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at the University of Wisconsin.Mr. Harold M. Hochman, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1970, to continue his work at the Urgan Institute in Washington.Dr. George A. Jansen, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective 3 March 1970, to enter private practice.Mr. James F. Loucks, Assistant Professor of English, effective 1 September 1970, to accept a position at Drexel Institute of Technology.Mr. Walter G. Neevel, Jr., Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, effective 1 September 1970, to accept a fellowship from the Center for the Study of World Religions in order to complete his doctoral dissertation.Mr. Maurice Nelles, Professor of Business Administration, effective 31 January 1970, to accept a position in industry.Mr. Samuel I. Outcalt, Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective 1 September 1970, to accept a position at the University of Michigan.Mr. Ronald S. Scott, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position with RCA, Princeton, New Jersey.Mr. Stanley S. Stahl, Jr., as Associate Dean, School of Education, effective 31 August 1970, to devote full time as Professor of Education.Mr. H. John Wood, Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position with the European Southern Observatories, Chile.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, 6 DECEMBER 1969
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resignation of Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law, effective 31 January 1970, as announced to the Board on 6 December 1969, be and it is hereby changed to read as follows:

The following retirement was announced: Mr. Hardy C. Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law, effective 31 January 1970. Mr. Dillard has been a member of the faculty since 1927.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

In accordance with the resolution adopted by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia on 14 July 1945, the following appointment was announced: Captain Joseph D. Hindsley as Assistant Professor of Military Science, effective June 1970.

The following appointments were also announced: Mr. Houston A. Baker, Jr., as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Charles E. Barrett as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective 1 March 1970.Mr. Richard L. Beard as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Richard M. Brandt as Chairman, Department of Foundations of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mrs. Helen G. Burr as Chairman, Department of Speech Pathology and Audiology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Theodore Caplow as Chairman, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. James F. Childress as Acting Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Glen L. Dunlap as Assistant Dean for Administration, Graduate School of Business Administration, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Robert R. Fair as Assistant Dean for Management Programs, Graduate School of Business Administration, for four years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Eliezer Gileadi as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two months, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Walter Greiner as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one month, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Dr. William B. Hunt, Jr., as Assistant Dean for Continuing Education, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 January 1970.Mr. Milton D. Jacobson as Director, Bureau of Educational Research, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. David C. Jordan as Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant to the Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Gordon E. Latta as Acting Chairman, Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Peter W. Low as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Richard A. Meade as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, for three years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Dr. James Q. Miller as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 September 1969.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler, Jr., as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for two years, effective 1 February 1970.Mr. John N. Moore as Director, Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mrs. Willie Lee Rose as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. John A. Sanderson as Assistant Dean, School of Education, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Marvin S. Schindler as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. John W. Stewart as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Wayne A. Wallace as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. T. Braxton Woody as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective 1 September 1970.Mr. Alfred Zawadowski as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for the period 1 May 1970, through 31 October 1970.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OWEN R. CHEATHAM PROFESSORSHIPS IN THE SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a gift of 1,000 shares of Georgia Pacific Corporati stock presented to the University on 12 February 1970 by Mr. Owen R. Cheatham be and it is hereby accepted with profound gratitude, that the income from this gift, and from the contemplated supplementary gifts for the same purpose, be used to establish and maintain in perpetuity professorships of such eminence and distinction as to bring honor and respect to the name of Owen R. Cheatham, with whose name they shall be forever associated;RESOLVED FURTHER that two Owen R. Cheatham Professorships in the Sciences be and they are hereby established; and that they shall be filled by appropriate elections as soon as the income from the gifts shall be sufficient;RESOLVED FURTHER that it shall be within the province of the University to select the professors and the departments in which the income is to be used; that the University shall have discretion to make changes from time to time in the selection of the professors and departments;AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Secretary is hereby directed to transmit to Mr. Owen R. Cheatham a copy of this resolution as evidence both of our corporate and individual gratitude for his wise and farseeing investment in great teaching and scholarship and of our commitment to the purposes of his grant.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOSEPH L. VAUGHAN CHAIR OF HUMANITIES IN THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that through the generosity of an anonymous donor, there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Engineering and Applied Science to be known as the Joseph L. Vaughan Professorship of Humanities in honor of the first Chairman of the Division of Humanities in the School of Engineering and Applied Science.

RETIREMENT POLICY FOR THE UNIVERSITY AT CHARLOTTESVILLE
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1962, the age of 70 be and it is hereby prescribed as the mandatory retirement age for members of the faculty of the University at Charlottesville, \[the effective date of retirement to be at midnight the 30th of June after reaching the age of 70;\] that, upon the initiative either of the President or of the professor concerned, any professor aged 65 or over may be retired or may have his teaching load, and proportionately his compensation, reduced to an amount that is appropriate in each particular case;RESOLVED FURTHER that the age of 65 be and it is hereby fixed as the retirement age \[the effective date of retirement to be at midnight the 30th of June after reaching the age of 65\] for the President, the Vice-President for Business and Finance, and other administrative officers, and that deans and chairmen of departments be retired from their administrative positions at midnight the 30th of June after reaching the age of 65, even though their teaching duties may continue either in whole or in part; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the University's retirement policy as set forth in this resolution shall be presented to future employees of the University at the time of election or appointment and accepted by them as a condition of employment.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO MR. J. HARVIE WILKINSON, JR.
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that this Board expresses its sincere thanks to Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr. for his dedicated service to the University as a member of the Board of Visitors from 1966 to 1970.

NAMING OF THE NEW SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------

On motion by Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new School of Architecture building be and it is hereby named Edmund S. Campbell Hall.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the construction program.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$149,313.32

Free service to Counties and Cities

416,886.92

\------------

Total

$566,200.24

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1789, 1790, 1793, 1794, 1796, 1797, 1804, 1805, 1807, 1809, and 1810, aggregating $566,200.24, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$149,313.32Free service to Counties and Cities416,886.92------------Total$566,200.24

INCREASE IN TUITION AND FEES
----------------------------

In response to questions as to why the increased cost of TIAA should not be met by further tuition increases rather than increased fees, the President explained that tuition payments go into a state fund. He said that appropriations from state funds for TIAA are not permitted under current regulations. Fees, on the other hand, can be held in local funds from which payments to TIAA are authorized.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 1 September 1970, for all schools except the Graduate School of Business Administration, increases in tuition as shown below be and they are hereby approved:TUITIONVirginia Students tuition increased by $35.00 per sessionOut-of-State Students tuition increased by $125.00 per session

COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------

Current Comprehensive Fee

Comprehensive Fee Increase

Comprehensive Fee Effective 1 September 1970

Field House and Gymnasium Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue - University Hall, starting in 1965-66)

$ 15.00

\-

$ 15.00

Library Building Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue of new library structure starting in 1965)

7.00

\-

7.00

Athletics

20.00

\-

20.00

Student Health

40.00

$ 5.00

45.00

University Union

14.00

\-

14.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\-

4.00

For Faculty TIAA

35.00

20.00

55.00

Student Activity Fee

7.00

(not included)

(not included)

\--------

\--------

\--------

$142.00

$25.00

$160.00

In December 1963 the Board established a Comprehensive Fee which included among others a Student Activities Fee. Because of the need for early information about the Comprehensive Fee, the President now recommends that the Student Activities Fee be established as separate from the Comprehensive Fee. This will permit the Student Activities Committee to continue a study of the needs of the various activities, and to make its recommendations available for the June 1970 meeting of the Board. The amount of the Student Activities Fee will be established at that meeting.

The following resolution was therefore adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 September 1970, there will be, in addition to tuition charges, two fees to be paid by each student, (a) a Student Activities Fee and (b) a Comprehensive Fee in the amount of $160.00 per student, the proceeds of which shall be distributed as follows: Current Comprehensive FeeComprehensive Fee IncreaseComprehensive Fee Effective 1 September 1970Field House and Gymnasium Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue - University Hall, starting in 1965-66)$ 15.00-$ 15.00Library Building Fee (pledged for amortization of bond issue of new library structure starting in 1965)7.00-7.00Athletics20.00-20.00Student Health40.00$ 5.0045.00University Union14.00-14.00Class Affiliation4.00-4.00For Faculty TIAA35.0020.0055.00Student Activity Fee7.00(not included)(not included)------------------------$142.00$25.00$160.00

STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
----------------------

The Board will take action at the June 1970 meeting to establish the Student Activities Fee. It is currently $7.00. An upward adjustment is anticipated, the amount to be determined after receipt of recommendation from the Student Activities Committee.

RESOLVED further that the adoption of a Comprehensive Fee and a Student Activities Fee shall not be construed to eliminate or affect in any way special school fees now charged to students in a particular school.

POSTPONEMENT OF OUT-OF-STATE TUITION INCREASE FOR THE LAW SCHOOL
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors adopted a resolution in February of 1968 increasing the tuition charge for out-of-State students in the School of Law by the amount of $100.00 effective 1 September 1970; the estimated starting date for construction of new Law School buildings.

Since the construction plans are delayed, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition increase of $100 for out-of-State students in the School of Law approved to become effective on 1 September 1970, be and it is hereby postponed until such time as building costs are established for the proposed Law School buildings.

DORMITORY RENTALS
-----------------

Present Charges

Proposed Charges

Single Room

$380

$400

Double Room

330

355

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 1 September 1970, the following rental charges for Mary Munford Hall and the Gwathmey House be and they are hereby increased as follows: Present ChargesProposed ChargesSingle Room$380$400Double Room330355

INCREASE IN ROOM RATES AT THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective 1 July 1970, the charges for all rooms at the University Hospital be and they are hereby increased in the amount of $5.00.

RESOLUTION OF COMMENDATION FOR MR. HARDY C. DILLARD
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Hardy Cross Dillard, James Monroe Professor of Law and former Dean of the School of Law, has been elected to serve as a Judge on the International Court of Justice, at The Hague, in recognition of his character and his learning;WHEREAS in being so recognized by the Permanent Court of Arbitration, and in assuming the responsibilities of this new position, Mr. Dillard, a worthy son of this institution, who has served it for the past thirty-nine years with nothing but honor to himself, to his alma mater, and to his country, now brings new honor to the School of Law and to the University;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we congratulate Judge Dillard, both corporately and individually, and wish for him much happiness in the performance of the new obligations to his fellow men that he will so well fulfill.

REPORT ON UNIVERSITY APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE 1970-72 BIENNIUM
------------------------------------------------------------

The Vice-President for Business and Finance, Mr. Shea, reported on the University Appropriations for the 1970-72 biennium.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------------

The President reported on various items of legislature passed by the recent session of the General Assembly. He also reported that Mr. Edwin Crawford has been very effective in assisting him in dealing with the General Assembly. The President also expressed appreciation to the Alumni for the very fine party they gave for the General Assembly.

REPORT ON THE HONOR SYSTEM
--------------------------

Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch presented a general report on the status of the honor system.

SALARY SCALES FOR RESEARCH PERSONNEL
------------------------------------

Normal Entrance Rate

Research Assistant A

$6,720

Research Assistant B

9,168

Research Associate

9,600

Senior Physics Research Assistant

8,400

Senior Astronomy Research Assistant

8,400

Statistician A

5,640

Statistician B

7,032

Statistician C

8,784

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective 1 July 1969, the salary scales for research personnel as set forth below be and they are hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the annual increments shall follow the State scales: Normal Entrance RateResearch Assistant A$6,720Research Assistant B9,168Research Associate9,600Senior Physics Research Assistant8,400Senior Astronomy Research Assistant8,400Statistician A5,640Statistician B7,032Statistician C8,784

SALARY AND COMPENSATION SCHEDULES FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - SCHOOL OF MEDICINECompensation Plan for Clinical Faculty Members and Pathologist Staff
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1970-71

Positions

Proposed State Maximum

Total Cost

Professor and Department Chairman

13

$ 21,000

$ 273,000

Professor

20

18,500

370,000

Associate Professor

38

16,000

608,000

Assistant Professor

42

14,000

588,000

Instructor

2

12,000

24,000

\---

\--------

\----------

Totals

115

$1,863,000

Available for 1970-71

$1,341,000

\----------

$ 522,000

1970-71

Increase of $1,500 for Projected 120 Faculty Positions in 1970-71

$ 180,000

\----------

Total for 1970-71

$ 702,000

Total for 1970-72 Biennium

$ 1,224,000

Present Plan

Proposed Plan

(Effective 7-1-68)

(Effective 7-1-70)

(Effective 7-1-71)

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation

DEPARTMENT CHAIRMAN

$ 20,000

$ 36,000

$ 21,000

$ 42,000

$ 22,500

$ 45,000

PROFESSOR

15,000

36,000

18,500

40,000

20,000

43,000

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

12,000

32,000

16,000

37,000

17,500

40,000

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

10,000

28,000

14,000

32,000

15,500

35,000

INSTRUCTOR

6,000

24,000

12,000

28,000

13,500

31,000

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following salary and compensation schedules for the School of Medicine be and they are hereby approved as shown on the following two pages:Projected Cost of Implementing Proposed State Maximum Salary Effective July 1, 1970 1970-71PositionsProposed State MaximumTotal CostProfessor and Department Chairman13$ 21,000$ 273,000Professor2018,500370,000Associate Professor3816,000608,000Assistant Professor4214,000588,000Instructor212,00024,000---------------------Totals115$1,863,000Available for 1970-71$1,341,000----------$ 522,000 Additional Cost of Implementing Proposed State Maximum Salary Effective July 1, 1971 1970-71Increase of $1,500 for Projected 120 Faculty Positions in 1970-71$ 180,000----------Total for 1970-71$ 702,000Total for 1970-72 Biennium$ 1,224,000

Present PlanProposed Plan(Effective 7-1-68)(Effective 7-1-70)(Effective 7-1-71)State MaximumMaximum CompensationState MaximumMaximum CompensationState MaximumMaximum CompensationDEPARTMENT CHAIRMAN$ 20,000$ 36,000$ 21,000$ 42,000$ 22,500$ 45,000PROFESSOR15,00036,00018,50040,00020,00043,000ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR12,00032,00016,00037,00017,50040,000ASSISTANT PROFESSOR10,00028,00014,00032,00015,50035,000INSTRUCTOR6,00024,00012,00028,00013,50031,000

REPORT BY STANDING COMMITTEES
-----------------------------

Reports were received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, the Medical Committee, the Mary Washington College Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Clavio F. Ascari as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Italian), for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Rosalia C. Ascari as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Martha Jones Burke as Assistant Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. R. Bruce Carruthers as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles Frederick Howard as Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. James William Kemp, Jr. as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert L. Nadeau as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Miss Mary Jacqueline Porter as Instructor, for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Roy H. Smith as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. John M. Albertine as Instructor in Economics and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Barbara Alden as Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist for the College, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James E. Baker as Assistant Professor of Music, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles D. Balthis as Instructor (Cataloguing), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Michael Lawrence Bass as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Otho C. Campbell as Instructor in History, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Theodore Celenko, Jr., as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Frances Linda de Florio as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Nancy Cole Dosch as Assistant Instructor in Health, Physical Education and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John Druzbick as Instructor in Physics, one-third time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mrs. Margaret Sue Early as Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Peter Fellowes as Instructor in English, for one year, effectiveMr. Victor Fingerhut as Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Diane D. Fishman as Instructor (Acquisitions), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Joyce W. Gardner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John Kirk George as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Jeanne Chalifoux Goddin as Instructor in Music (Harp), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary to be paid on a per-student fee basis.Mr. Teruo Hara as Lecturer in Art (Visiting Artist), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Janet M. Hollack as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $Mrs. Catherine H. Hook as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Mary Jane Hyde as Instructor in Health, Physical Education and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mildred C. Jamison as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert B. Jessen as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Constance A. Jones as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Joanna Looney as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages ((Spanish), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie, Jr., as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Lydie S. Mann as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages ((French), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. John C. Manolis as Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Taketo Ohtani as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Japanese), one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Leslie E. Pitts as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Yvonne M. Sabine as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.Mrs. Jane N. Saladin as Assistant Instructor (Registrar and Director of Financial Aid), for one year, effective 1 July 1970, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Richard L. Sarchet as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Janet M. Whisler as Instructor in Economics and Political Science, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard T. Wilfong as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Elizabeth Winston as Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard M. Zeleznock as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made:Mr. Bulent I. Atalay, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Roger J. Bourdon, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard E. Hansen, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Miss Carol Ann Kemmler, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas S. Turgeon, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Dramatic Arts and Speech, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Roy B. Weinstock, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. James E. Baker, Assistant Professor of Music, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at The Catholic University of America.Mr. Peter Fellowes, Instructor in English, for one semester, effective 1 September 1970, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at the University of Virginia.Mrs. Diane D. Fishman, Instructor (Acquisitions), for three months, effective 1 April 1970, without pay, for medical reasons.Mr. John K. George, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at a school not yet determined.Miss Constance A. Jones, Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to pursue graduate study at Emory University.Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie, Jr., Instructor in English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at the University of Chicago.Mr. John C. Manolis, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective 1 September 1970, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at George Washington University.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mr. Nikola Milana Nikolic, from Acting Associate Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, effective 1 September 1970.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Mrs. Diane D. Fishman, Instructor (Acquisitions), from a three-month unpaid medical leave to two-thirds time, for two months, effective 1 July 1970, at a salary of $.Mrs. Ruth T. Friedman, Assistant Professor of Biology, from two-thirds time to full time, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Dudley A. Sherwood, Assistant Professor of Classics, one-half time, effective 1 September 1970, at a salary of $.

RESIGNATIONS AND RETIREMENTS
----------------------------

The following resignations and retirements were announced: Miss Guenndolyn A. Beeler, Professor of Home Economics and Chairman of the Department of Home Economics, retiring after 19 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 June 1970.Mr. Burton Cooper, Assistant Professor of Religion, resigning, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a teaching position at another institution.Mrs. Eileen K. Dodd, Professor of Psychology, retiring after 44 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 June 1970.Miss Dana G. Finnegan, Associate Professor of English, resigning to co-author a book and to further her professional career, effective 30 June 1970.Mrs. Emily A. Holloway, Assistant Professor and Director of Student Affairs, resigning for personal reasons, effective 31 August 1970, after approximately 22 years of service at Mary Washington College.Mr. Reginald W. Whidden, Professor of English and Dean of the College, retiring after 27 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 September 1970.Mr. Edgar E. Woodward, Professor and Comptroller of the College, retiring after 33 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective 30 September 1970.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Bulent I. Atalay as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Miss Elizabeth Clark as Chairman of the Department of Religion, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Donald E. Glover as Chairman of the Department of English, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Miss Miriam J. Greenberg as Chairman of the Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.Miss Mary Ellen Stephenson as Chairman of the Department of Modern Foreign Languages, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Roy B. Weinstock as Chairman of the Department of Psychology, to serve the remaining two years of a three-year appointment, the first year having been served by Mr. Weinstock as Acting Chairman, effective 1 July 1970.Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO LEWIS M. WALKER, JR. FOR THE MACE GIVEN TO MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that this Board expresses its sincere thanks to Mr. Lewis M. Walker, Jr., former Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, for the handsomely engraved mace which he presented on behalf of The Rector and Visitors to Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia on 5 February 1970.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSE FOR MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement of purpose for Mary Washington College, which had already been passed by the Faculty of Mary Washington College be and it is hereby approved:Mary Washington College is a state-aided liberal arts college and a part of the University of Virginia. As such, it has an obligation to the people of the Commonwealth of Virginia to provide, without regard to race, creed, national origin, or sex, an educational program of the highest quality.As a liberal arts institution, Mary Washington College is convinced that a broad education in the arts, the sciences and the humanities, complemented by intensive study in a particular field of interest, constitutes an excellent preparation for life and citizenship.The College upholds the values of freedom of inquiry, personal responsibility, and intellectual integrity.Finally, Mary Washington College is committed to serve with distinction the community, the state, and the nation through the selection of qualified students, the maintenance of a competent faculty and staff, and the development of an appropriate academic, cultural, and physical environment.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Van W. Daniel, III, as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ronald W. Elosser as Instructor in Physical Education, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jeffrey K. Parker as Instructor in Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Bob G. Raines as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective 1 July 1970, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Philip C. Shelton as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Paul D. Elosser, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, without pay, to complete work on the Ph.D. degree at the University of Kentucky.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Bob G. Raines as Director of Student Aid and Placement, for three years, effective 1 July 1970.

INCREASE IN TUITION AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charges at Clinch Valley College be increased, effective 1 September 1970, by $20.00 for Virginia students and $30.00 for out-of-State students.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Grant W. Ahlberg as Lecturer in History, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Michael F. Gutowski as Instructor in Economics, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jack H. Hiller as Lecturer in Psychology, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Wallace S. Hutcheon, Jr., as Lecturer in History, one-half time, for one semester, effective 1 February 1970, at a salary of $.Mr. Michael R. Kelley as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Christopher A. Kakas, Assistant Professor of Art, effective 6 February 1970, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor, George Mason College, for one year, effective 1 July 1970.

CONVEYANCE OF GEORGE MASON PROPERTY BY THE BOARD OF CONTROL
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Control for the Counties of Fairfax and Arlington and the Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church ("the Board"), appointed pursuant to Section 15.1-264 of the Virginia Code of 1950, as amended, has previously conveyed to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia ("the University") by deed dated 30 April 1969, tracts of land aggregating 414.725 acres in Fairfax County and the City of Fairfax, Virginia, for the sole use and benefit of George Mason College, or its successor; andWHEREAS, the Board has caused a comparable deed dated 5 February 1970 to be executed conveying to the University for said purpose parcels of land aggregating 7.06 acres in the City of Fairfax, Virginia; andWHEREAS, each conveyance has been approved by the governing body of each of the political subdivisions making up the Board;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the conveyances by the Board of Control for the Counties of Fairfax and Arlington and the Cities of Alexandria and Falls Church to the University for the sole use and benefit of George Mason College of the University of Virginia, or its successor, by deeds of 30 April 1969 and 5 February 1970 of parcels of land aggregating 414.725 acres and 7.06 acres, respectively, located in Fairfax County and the City of Fairfax, Virginia, and more particularly described in such deeds, be and they hereby are approved, ratified, and confirmed.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE TUITION AND FEE SCHEDULESUMMER SESSIONREGULAR SESSION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

In-State

Out-of-State

Application Fee

$10.00

$10.00 (1) (1)Required one time only, whether student attends the first term, the second, or both.

Tuition, per semester hour (per term)

22.00

52.00

Comprehensive Fee (per term)

5.00

5.00

Laboratory Deposit Card

5.00

5.00 (2) (2)May be used for Biology or Chemistry or both, and may be used for both terms. Unused portion is refundable.

Physical Education Fee (Only if Golf is elected)

12.00

12.00

In-State Students

Out-of-State Students

Application fee

$ 10.00

$ 10.00

Tuition, full-time (12-16 semester hours)

530.00

1,250.00

Tuition, in excess of 16 semester hours per semester, per hour

16.00

40.00

Tuition, part-time (11 semester hours or fewer) per semester, per hour

22.00

52.00

Comprehensive fee

60.00

60.00 (1) (1)Students enrolled for six semester hours or fewer pay $15.00 per semester (2) (2)Allocation of Comprehensive Fee: For matching TIAA contribution $40.00 For Student Activities $20.00

Laboratory Breakage Deposit

5.00

5.00 (3) (3)Biology and Chemistry only, one deposit covers either or both. Same card may be used for both semesters. Unused portion is refundable.

Physical Education Fee (Only if Golf is elected) per semester

12.00

12.00

Diploma Fee (Seniors Only)

5.00

5.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and fee schedules for George Mason College as set forth below be and they are hereby approved, effective date for the Summer Session increase is 1 June 1970, and the effective date for the Graduate and Undergraduate increase is 1 September 1970: SUMMER SESSIONIn-StateOut-of-StateApplication Fee$10.00$10.00 (1) (1)Required one time only, whether student attends the first term, the second, or both. Tuition, per semester hour (per term)22.0052.00Comprehensive Fee (per term)5.005.00Laboratory Deposit Card5.005.00 (2) (2)May be used for Biology or Chemistry or both, and may be used for both terms. Unused portion is refundable. Physical Education Fee (Only if Golf is elected)12.0012.00 REGULAR SESSIONIn-State StudentsOut-of-State StudentsApplication fee$ 10.00$ 10.00Tuition, full-time (12-16 semester hours)530.001,250.00Tuition, in excess of 16 semester hours per semester, per hour16.0040.00Tuition, part-time (11 semester hours or fewer) per semester, per hour22.0052.00Comprehensive fee60.0060.00 (1) (1)Students enrolled for six semester hours or fewer pay $15.00 per semester (2) (2)Allocation of Comprehensive Fee: For matching TIAA contribution $40.00 For Student Activities $20.00 Laboratory Breakage Deposit5.005.00 (3) (3)Biology and Chemistry only, one deposit covers either or both. Same card may be used for both semesters. Unused portion is refundable. Physical Education Fee (Only if Golf is elected) per semester12.0012.00Diploma Fee (Seniors Only)5.005.00

Required one time only, whether student attends the first term, the second, or both.

May be used for Biology or Chemistry or both, and may be used for both terms. Unused portion is refundable.

Students enrolled for six semester hours or fewer pay $15.00 per semester

Allocation of Comprehensive Fee: For matching TIAA contribution $40.00 For Student Activities $20.00

Biology and Chemistry only, one deposit covers either or both. Same card may be used for both semesters. Unused portion is refundable.

PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESPROMOTION
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Ruby D. Mitchell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Spanish, for one year, effective 1 September 1970, at a session salary of $.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESRESIGNATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Allen R. Mickelsen, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective 30 June 1970, to accept a position at California State College.
