---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1970'
month: 12
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1970) December 4, 1970
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

December 4, 1970

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA December 4, 1970
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m. on December 4, 1970 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library at Charlottesville with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; Acting President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Richard S. Cross, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., Donald E. Santarelli, C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Absent: Visitors Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, and William S. Potter. Vincent Shea was present throughout the meeting. Grellet C. Simpson was present during the discussion of Mary Washington College matters. President Shannon was away from the University on active duty with the Naval Reserve at the time of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of October 2, 1970, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. William S. Allerton as Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.Dr. Arthur S. Bender as Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1970.Mr. Michael E. Bender as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1970.Mr. Robert L. Bolus as Instructor in Marine Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Albert B. F. Duncan as Visiting Professor of Astronomy, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Dr. John R. Eagle as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.Mr. Jochen Edrich as Lecturer in Electrical Engineering, part-time, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.Mr. Virgil W. Faulkner as Lecturer in Orthopedics, for one year, effective October 1, 1970, at an annual salary of Dr. Charles J. Flickinger as Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Joachim Herrmann as Visiting Professor of Law, one-half time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Robert E. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Engineering Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Albert Y. Kuo as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Robert L. MacDonald, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John V. Merriner as Instructor in Marine Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1970.Major Calvin M. Morris as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for three years, effective August 1970.Mr. Franklyn D. Ott as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Robert A. Rutland as Professor of Humanistic Sources, effective February 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Robin W. Strickland as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lois N. Upham as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, one-half time, for the period October 16, 1970, through June 15, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Roger A. Upham as Junior Instructor in Chemistry, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul L. Zubkoff as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective September 1, 1970.

ELECTION OF DR. THOMAS H. HUNTER as OWEN R. CHEATHAM PROFESSOR OF SCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. Thomas H. Hunter be and he is hereby elected Owen R. Cheatham Professor of Sciences, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mrs. Francoise Attinger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period July 1, 1970 through May 31, 1971.Miss Jeannette A. Brown as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Dr. Byard S. Deputy as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective June 1, 1970.Dr. Diane M. Komp as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. William M. O'Brien as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective May 15, 1970.Mr. Herbert C. Richards as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Dr. Frank M. Ripberger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period September 1, 1970, through June 30, 1973.Dr. Albert W. Sparrow as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1970.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. CONRAD M. ARENSBERG
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Conrad M. Arensberg as Visiting Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, as approved by the Board on June 5, 1970, be and it is hereby cancelled.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period February 1971 through May 31, 1971, to devote full time to research and writing.Mr. Lev Zetlin, University Professor of Architecture and of Civil Engineering, for the period October 1, 1970 through January 31, 1971, to take care of personal business.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mrs. Jeanne C. Biggar, from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, to Assistant Professor of Sociology, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Michael J. Demetsky, from Acting Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Ira D. Jacobson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Ivan C. Johnson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period October 1, 1970, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Arthur G. Stevens, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period October 1, 1970 through June 30, 1971.Mr. Frank J. F. Wordick, from Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for the period November 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau as Associate Provost for Research, effective January 31, 1971, to return to full time teaching and research.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Assistant Director, Counseling Center, for one year, effective July 1, 1970.Dr. Thomas H. Hunter as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., as Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for two months, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka as Director of the Vivarium, for two years, effective September 1, 1970.

DEATH OF MR. JOSEPH M. CARRIERE
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. S. VERNON MCCASLAND
--------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. FREDERICK DEANE GOODWIN RIBBLE
-------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VIRGINIA BANKERS ASSOCIATION PROFESSORSHIP OF BANK MANAGEMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the McIntire School of Commerce to be known as The Virginia Bankers Association Professorship of Bank Management.

TRANSFER OF THE A. WILLIS ROBERTSON PROFESSORSHIP FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the A. Willis Robertson Professorship of Government, as created by the Executive Committee on June 5, 1969, be changed to the A. Willis Robertson Professorship of Political Economy.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1971
-----------------------------------

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, February 11, 12, and 13, 1971

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 1, 2, and 3, 1971

Fredericksburg

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, June 2, 3, and 4, 1971

Charlottesville

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, September 29 and 30, and October 1, 1971

Charlottesville

Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, December 9, 10, and 11, 1971

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1971 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, February 11, 12, and 13, 1971CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 1, 2, and 3, 1971FredericksburgWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, June 2, 3, and 4, 1971CharlottesvilleWednesday, Thursday, and Friday, September 29 and 30, and October 1, 1971CharlottesvilleThursday, Friday, and Saturday, December 9, 10, and 11, 1971Charlottesville

REPORT ON ATHLETIC FINANCES
---------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a report of the Department of Athletics entitled "Report of Receipts and Disbursements, Intercollegiate Athletics, for the Period July 1, 1969 to June 30, 1970" be and it is hereby approved for submission to the Director of the Budget of the Commonwealth as required by law.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President presented a report on the construction program.

REPORT ON APPROVAL OF DEGREE PROGRAMS BY THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported on the action of the State Council of Higher Education in approving the following degree programs to be offered by the University of Virginia:

1\. Bachelor of Science with a major in Landscape Architecture - September 1, 1971

2\. Master of Landscape Architecture - September 1, 1971

3\. Bachelor of Science in Architecture - September 1, 1971

4\. Master of Architecture - September 1, 1971

5\. Master of Arts in Environmental Science - February 1971

6\. Master of Science in Environmental Science - February 1971

7\. Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Science - February 1971

8\. Bachelor of Arts in Afro American Studies - January 1971

ESTABLISHMENT OF DEGREE PROGRAMS IN THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degree programs listed below be and they are hereby approved:1. Master of Arts in Religious Studies2. Master of Arts in General Linguistics3. Master of Science in Accounting

SALARY SCALES FOR RESEARCH PERSONNEL
------------------------------------

Research Assistant A

$ 7,344

Research Assistant B

10,032

Research Associate

10,512

Senior Physics Research Assistant

10,032

Senior Astronomy Research Assistant

10,032

Statistician A

6,144

Statistician B

7,680

Statistician C

9,600

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective July 1, 1970, the salary scales for research personnel as set forth below be and they are hereby approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the annual increments shall follow the State scales: Research Assistant A$ 7,344Research Assistant B10,032Research Associate10,512Senior Physics Research Assistant10,032Senior Astronomy Research Assistant10,032Statistician A6,144Statistician B7,680Statistician C9,600

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE NEW PHYSICS BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following architectural firms be and they are hereby approved for supervising the construction of the new Physics Building:For the principal design architect: Marcel BreuerFor the Virginia Associated architect: Rawlings and Wilson

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$134,885.40

Free service to Counties and Cities

442,154.54

\----------

Total

$577,039.94

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1877, 1878, 1882, 1884, 1885, 1892, 1893, 1896, 1897, 1899, 1900, 1907, 1908, 1914, and 1915, aggregating $577,039.94, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$134,885.40Free service to Counties and Cities442,154.54----------Total$577,039.94

ZONING REQUEST FOR THE CARTER-PORTER PROPERTY
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS the Carter-Porter property located directly across Jefferson Park Avenue from New Cabell Hall is currently zoned for multiple dwelling (R3), andWHEREAS a proposal has been made to change this zoning to B-1 in order to permit commercial development in the area, andWHEREAS the Board of Visitors recognizes that such commercial development adjacent to University property would not be compatible with existing plans for land use and not in harmony with future University plans,NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University be recorded as being opposed to the rezoning of the Carter-Porter Property to B-1 (for Commercial Development).

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE UNIVERSITY COMPTROLLER, RAY C. HUNT, JR. TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND TRAINING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., University Comptroller, be and he is hereby authorized to sign on behalf of the University all grants and contracts for research and training.

REVISION AND REENACTMENT OF THE BOARD'S STANDING POLICY ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF ATHLETICS AND THE ADVISORY COUNCIL ON ATHLETICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following policy governing the control of the Department of Athletics shall supersede all previously enacted policies and that it be and it is hereby adopted:(1) That responsibility for administration of the Department of Athletics shall be placed on a Director of University Athletic Programs, who shall have faculty status and the pay of a Department Head, and that the Director of University Athletic Programs shall be responsible to the President of the University through the Vice-President for Student Affairs.(2) That the faculty shall, as heretofore, have the responsibility of setting the standards required for the maintenance of acceptable academic standing for students in general; that students who maintain such standards shall be eligible to represent the University in athletic competition, subject to such regulations as may be established by the administrative authorities of the University, including the Board of Visitors, regarding eligibility in respects other than that of acceptable academic standing. The policy of the University concerning scholarships which may be awarded to students who participate in intercollegiate athletics is reserved for decision by the Board of Visitors, which may act with the benefit of recommendations from the administrative authorities, the Student Aid Foundation, and the Advisory Council hereinafter mentioned.(3) That an Advisory Council on Athletics be established which shall consist of:(a) Three members from the Faculty, appointed by the President(b) Three members from the Alumni Association, elected by its Board of Managers, and(c) Three members from the Student Body, elected by the Student Council, one of whom shall be President of Student Athletic Councilthat this Advisory Council shall be authorized to select its own Chairman and to adopt rules or regulations governing its sessions and the transaction of its business; that the Advisory Council shall be required to meet once in each calendar quarter and at such additional times as may appear necessary, on call of its chairman or of the Director of University Athletic Programs; that the Director of University Athletic Programs shall be required to report to the Council at each meeting concerning his administration of the Department and to suggest to the Council for its discussion and for advisory action any questions then existing or anticipated by the Director of University Athletic Programs as likely as to arise prior to the next regularly scheduled Council meeting; that this Council shall have the function of advising with the Director of University Athletic Programs concerning all major decisions affecting the administration of his Department, or referring to the Board of Visitors, through the President, for its consideration questions of policy deemed by the Council to be appropriate for Board action, and of recommending in like manner to the Board of Visitors action on any question concerning the Department, referred by the Board to the Council.(4) That the administration of the Department of Athletics shall be under the supervision of the President and administrative authorities of the University, and that decision on all questions involved in its operation shall, as in other phases of the University's activities, be subject to review and final determination by the Board of Visitors.

PROVISIONS FOR USE OF UNIVERSITY HALL
-------------------------------------

Upon recommendation of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, University Hall was constructed principally as an auditorium and athletic facility for events sponsored by the University or University organizations;WHEREAS, however, University Hall is a unique facility in the Charlottesville-Albemarle Community; andWHEREAS, in the financing of University Hall contributions were sought from donors in part on the basis that University Hall might be available for use by the Community;BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that University Hall is to be used primarily for events sponsored by the University or University organizations pursuant to regulations approved by the University; andRESOLVED FURTHER that University Hall shall be made available to non-University organizations and individuals on a non-discriminatory basis, and without regard to any religious nature or sponsorship of the event, at such times that shall not conflict with events sponsored by the University or University organizations, under the following conditions:(1) Events sponsored by the University or University organizations shall have priority in the scheduling of its use; and(2) Other organizations or individuals requesting its use must meet requirements established by the University which shall include at a minimum (i) assurance of financial means to make full compensation for the rental of University Hall, and (ii) assurance that University Hall will be used in a manner which does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin or sex, and (iii) such other requirements consistent with this resolution as may be established by the University.

REPORT BY MR. FRANK HEREFORD, JR.
---------------------------------

Mr. Hereford reported to the Board that it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain Federal funds. The scientific areas of the University are suffering particularly as the result of fund cutbacks.

Mr. Hereford reported that the University's efforts to prevent the adoption of a new procedure for centralizing the handling of research funds in Richmond have been ineffective. He reported that he accompanied the Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, and Mr. Lawrence Lewis in a visit to Governor Linwood Holton to discuss the problems posed by the new procedure. He advised that though the Governor had been sympathetic, but nevertheless, he has directed that the new procedures be made effective on January 1, 1971.

An Ad Hoc Committee composed of Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau, Mr. Ray Hunt, and Mr. Leigh Middleditch, is studying methods to reduce the impact of the change to the new procedures.

CHANGE IN REGULATIONS FOR CLASSIFICATION AS A VIRGINIA STUDENT
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that effective February 1, 1971, the following changes in the University Regulations be and they are hereby made: Delete the section entitled "Classification As A Virginia Student" and insert in lieu thereof the following:CLASSIFICATION AS A VIRGINIA STUDENT. The Code of Virginia provides that "No person shall be entitled to the admission privileges, or the reduced tuition charges, or any other privileges accorded by law only to residents or citizens of Virginia, in the State institutions of higher learning unless such person has been domiciled in, and is and has been an actual bona fide resident of Virginia for a period of at least one year prior to the commencement of the term, semester or quarter for which any such privilege or reduced tuition charge is sought, provided that the governing boards of such institutions may require longer periods of residence and may set up additional requirements for admitting students."Residence in the state for the purpose of securing an education does not establish domicile to qualify an individual for classification as a Virginia student.Inquiries should be addressed to the Chairman, Committee on Virginia Status of University Students, Pavilion VIII, East Lawn, University of Virginia, Charlottesville 22903.

PROPOSED CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE SEAL
-----------------------------------

Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, advised the Board that his Committee had examined a design proposed for adoption as the official seal of Clinch Valley College. The Educational Policy Committee was not satisfied that the seal was distinctive, and requested that it be returned for further study and reconsideration, with the suggestion that assistance be sought from the Virginia Art Commission. There was general agreement that the Committee's recommendations be followed.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF CHANGE IN MEETING SCHEDULE
--------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that for the immediate future, the Board should again operate on a 2 and 1/2 day meeting schedule.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports were received on Committee actions and other matters from the Chairmen of the Medical Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, and the Mary Washington College Committee. Mr. Lawrence Lewis, who chaired a joint meeting of the Finance Committee and the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported for those Committees. The Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee reported on a meeting of that Committee which was held on November 21, 1970.

Mr. Lewis expressed his concern for the tremendous load presently shouldered by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee. He announced his intention to discuss with the President a proposal to further distribute the work and responsibility of that Committee.

COMMENTS BY MESSRS. SANTARELLI AND WILKINSON
--------------------------------------------

Prior to adjournment, Messrs, Santarelli and Wilkinson argued that the hurried format of our meetings makes it difficult to bring up matters not on the prepared agenda. They felt that the Board could increase its effectiveness if members had time to raise matters of concern at the meetings.

TRANSMITTAL OF CABLEGRAM TO PRESIDENT SHANNON
---------------------------------------------

The Rector proposed, and there was general concurrence that the Secretary should transmit a cablegram to the President to read as follows:

Unusally smooth sailing.

Hope you have the same.

The Rector and Visitors

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mrs. Mary James Wright as Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech, for the remainder of the 1970-1971 session, effective October 1, 1970, at a salary of , for the total period.

LEAVE OF ABSENCE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Mrs. Yvonne M. Sabine, Instructor in Music, one-half time, for the second semester of the 1970-1971 session,

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Miss Janet M. Whisler, Instructor in Economics and Political Science, at the end of the first semester of the 1970-1971 session, for personal reasons.Mrs. Mary James Wright, Instructor in Dramatic Arts and Speech, at the end of the first semester of the 1970-1971 session, effective February 1, 1971, due to pregnancy and the inability to commute.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Albert G. Duke, as Acting Chairman, Department of Dramatic Arts and Speech, for the remainder of the 1970-1971 session, effective October 5, 1970, to replace Mr. Albert R. Klein.

DEATH OF MR. ALBERT R. KLEIN
----------------------------

UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comptroller be and he is hereby authorized to charge off the following uncollectible student accounts: Schedule MW-1, $467.73.

INCREASE IN ROOM DEPOSITS OF RETURNING STUDENTS
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the room deposit be and it is hereby increased to $100.00 for students enrolled at Mary Washington College who are reserving rooms for a subsequent session, such deposit to be non-refundable after May 1 except when the Comptroller and Director of Admissions deem that there are extenuating circumstances that would justify refunding the deposit.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A TUITION DEPOSIT FOR NEW AND RETURNING DAY STUDENTS
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a tuition deposit in the amount of $50.00 be and it is hereby established for both newly admitted and returning students to Mary Washington College who will not occupy dormitory rooms, such deposit to be non-refundable after May 1 except when the Comptroller and Director of Admissions deem that there are extenuating circumstances that would justify refunding the deposit.

REPORT BY THE CHANCELLOR
------------------------

The Chancellor reported that a COSIP Grant has been approved for Mary Washington College for $250,000. The Chancellor also reported that an anonymous benefactor had given $25,000 to the College to be used as the Chancellor directs.

There was some discussion of the Governor's Management Study report.

REPORT BY MRS. E. ALTON PARRISH, SR.
------------------------------------

Mrs. Parrish, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee reported that the meeting with students at the College was successful and that her Committee should meet more often in Fredericksburg. The Chancellor and Mr. Cross agreed that meetings in Fredericksburg are important to the College. The Rector warned that there must be a "happy medium" on the amount of time that Board members can be expected to give to these meetings.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Jane M. N. Major as Lecturer in Education, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of .Mr. Patrick F. McIntyre as Instructor, Library, for one year, effective October 15, 1970, at an annual salary of .

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Joseph A. Childress, Jr., from Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1970.Mr. Michael R. Kelley, from Acting Assistant Professor of English, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period November 1, 1970 through June 30, 1971.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSPROMOTION
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Michael E. O'Donnell, Instructor to Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective November 1, 1970, at a session salary of

EASTERN SHORE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIESELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty:Mrs. Rosemary A. M. Keifner as Instructor in Library Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1970, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

On motion the meeting was then adjourned at 11:15 a.m.

RCB:jb
