---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1971'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1971) April 3, 1971
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 3, 1971

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 3, 1971
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:40 a.m. on April 3, 1971 in the Office of the Chancellor at Mary Washington College with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Barrett, Brown, W. Wright Harrison, Kendig, Kuykendall, Mattern, Parrish, Polly, Potter, Santarelli, Scott, and Wilkinson. Absent: Visitors Hartwell Harrison, Lewis, and Wheatley. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., and Vincent Shea were present throughout the meeting. Messrs. Grellet C. Simpson, Michael Houston, and Edward Allison were present for a portion of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of February 13, 1971, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
--------------------------------

The Rector announced to the Board the appointment by the Governor of Senator Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania.

APPOINTMENT OF THE STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Medical CommitteeDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanMr. Edwin K. MatternMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

MEETING DATES FOR 1972
----------------------

February 3, 4, 5, 1972

\-

Charlottesville

April 6, 7, 8, 1972

\-

Fredericksburg

May 31, June 1, 2, 1972

\-

Charlottesville

October 11, 12, 13, 1972

\-

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tentative locations and meeting dates for the February, April, June, and October 1972 meetings shall be as set forth below. The dates for the December 1972 meetings will be determined at the June 1971 meeting. All of the 1972 meeting dates are subject to final confirmation by the Board at its meeting in December 1971. February 3, 4, 5, 1972-CharlottesvilleApril 6, 7, 8, 1972-FredericksburgMay 31, June 1, 2, 1972-CharlottesvilleOctober 11, 12, 13, 1972-Charlottesville

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Dr. Henry T. Adkins as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. James R. Annicchiarico as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard W. Ault as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of Dr. Clayton G. Ball, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Spencer C. Bennett as Acting Assistant Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Harold W. Berk as Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. John D. Boyd, II, as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Robert S. Brown as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Lester G. Crocker as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of French, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Joseph M. Damron as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Robert Dawidoff as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. James W. Earl as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Anas M. El-Mahdi as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert H. Evans as Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul M. Fishbane as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Mary Louise Fleming as Assistant Instructor, Law Library, for one year, effective June 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John G. Garrard as Professor of Russian, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard L. Godine as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. Richard A. Green as Lecturer in Law, part time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Larry M. Hackenberg as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Margaret M. Hall as Lecturer in English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Stephen T. Hedetniemi as Visiting Associate Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Charles H. Henderson as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective August 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Stuart S. Howards as Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mrs. Kathryn Hume as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. Robert D. Hume as Visiting Associate Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. James G. Hunter, Jr., as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. S. Pannell Jones as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Mathias C. Kiemen as Visiting Professor of History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Hui-Hsiung Kuo as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Clayton D. Lewis as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald W. Linker as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. David Little as Associate Professor of the Sociology of Religion, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mrs. Adalaide K. Morris as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of Mr. Charles L. Perdue as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Hubert O. Porter as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. William T. Ross, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Andrew C. Ruppel as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Merle A. Sande as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine (Family and Community Medicine), for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Roger Sharrock as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Dr. Muzaffer C. Sofuoglu as Lecturer in Otolaryngology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. John E. Solie as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Colonel John E. Strever, Jr., as Professor of Military Science, effective May 1971.Mr. Arlin B. Thro as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Curtis J. Tompkins as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. Edwin D. Vaughan, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Urology, for the period April 1, 1971, through June 30, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Barbara Ann Waswo as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. William G. Way as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. Thomas E. Williams as Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 15, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Joseph C. Zieman, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of

ELECTION OF MR. DAVID LEVIN AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. David Levin be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of English, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Phillip J. Best as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Captain Walter C. Blattmann as Professor of Naval Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Terrence A. Boring as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Edwin E. Erickson as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ernest Gellhorn as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Marcel Herbst as Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, one-fourth time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. S. G. Whittle Johnston as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Prabahan K. Kabir as Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Thomas L. Kriete as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1971.Mr. Manuel Lassaletta as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. George W. Lovelace as Assistant Professor of Architecture, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Dahlard L. Lukes as Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw as Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William S. McKee as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Patricia M. Murphy as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period June 15, 1971, through July 31, 1971.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Sir John Wheeler-Bennett as Scholar-in-Residence in History, Government and Foreign Affairs, and Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971.

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. STANLEY D. HENDERSON
-------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Stanley D. Henderson as Visiting Professor of Law, as approved by the Board on February 13, 1971, be changed to Professor of Law, effective February 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. John W. Boring, Associate Professor, to Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Dr. Richard C. Brown, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. James F. Childress, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Jay L. Chronister, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Alexander C. Crosman, Jr., Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Paul S. Dulaney, Associate Professor, to Professor of Architecture, effective September 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Carol N. Engel, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Medical Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Omer A. Gianniny, Jr., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Humanities, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Miss Vesta L. Gordon, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. A. Gardner Harden, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period March 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe, Associate Professor, to Professor of Architecture, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. J. Richard Keefe, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Graham C. Lilly, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Mary Ann MacDougall, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Fred C. McCormick, Associate Professor, to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John F. Mesinger, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Jerry R. Moore, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. David Morris, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Edward A. Parrish, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert H. Pate, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Sheila A. Richardson, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Kenneth E. Schuit, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. James G. Simmonds, Associate Professor, to Professor of Applied Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles Whitebread, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Martin C. Battestin, Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman, Professor of Architecture, for one month, effective July 1, 1971, without pay, for European travel.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. James T. Cargile, Associate Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to serve as Visiting Associate Professor at the University of Illinois.Mr. Kenneth W. Clarkson, Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to serve as Brookings Economic Policy Fellow.Mr. David H. Flaherty, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to study at Harvard Law School on an ACLS Study Fellowship.Mr. John Graham, Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept a research grant.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. James L. Kelly, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept employment with the Duke Power Company, Charlotte, North Carolina.Mr. Allan M. Lefer, Associate Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, without pay, to study at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem, Israel.Mr. David B. Morris, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.Miss Mary Murchison, Assistant Professor of Nursing, for the period June 7, 1971, through July 31, 1971, without pay, for European travel.Mr. G. Warren Nutter, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for the period September 1, 1971 through January 31, 1973, without pay, to continue his duties as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs.Mr. Louis T. Rader, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, for the period July 1, 1971, through August 31, 1971, without pay, to carry out a personal study in the development of a new course.Mrs. Viola H. Winner, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Carl A. Erdman, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period February 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble, from Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons shall receive the salary indicated:Miss Elizabeth H. Allee, Assistant Instructor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Helen K. Carlin, Assistant Instructor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Kenneth O. Jensen, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Miss Cornelia A. Kelley, Instructor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Hugh P. Kelly, Professor of Physics, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Thomas L. Kriete, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.Miss Roy Land, Associate Professor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Richard B. Martin, Assistant Instructor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Miss Edwina H. Pancake, Assistant Instructor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Dr. B. Winfred Ruffner, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, at an annual salary of , effective March 1, 1971.Mr. Kendon L. Stubbs, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, at an annual salary of , effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Robert S. Wood, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, at a session salary of , effective September 1, 1971.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Thomas H. Hunter as Vice-President for Medical Affairs, effective February 28, 1971, to return to full time teaching and research.Mr. Joel Lazar, Acting Assistant Professor of Music, effective June 30, 1971, to study in Europe.Mr. R. Bruce Martin as Chairman, Department of Chemistry, effective June 30, 1971, to devote full time to teaching and research.Mr. Richard A. Meade as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, effective June 30, 1971, to return to full time teaching.Dr. Robert E. Merrill, Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1971, to become Professor of Pediatrics and Chairman of the Department at the University of Arkansas.Mr. David A. Shannon as Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective June 30, 1971, to accept the position of Vice-President and Provost.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Harold W. Berk as Radiation Safety Officer, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Jay L. Chronister as Assistant Dean for Administrative Services, for two years, effective September 1971.Dr. Kenneth R. Crispell as Vice-President for Health Sciences, for five years, effective March 1, 1971.Mr. Lester G. Crocker as Chairman, Department of French and General Linguistics, for five years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Fred A. Diehl as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John G. Garrard as Chairman, Department of Slavic Literature, for five years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Richard L. Godine as Director of University Development, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, as Acting Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective March 1, 1971.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. S. G. Whittle Johnston as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Prabahan K. Kabir as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Jacob C. Levenson as Chairman, Department of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David Levin as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Jerry R. Moore as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David A. Shannon as Vice-President and Provost, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Assistant Dean and Director of Admissions, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Leland B. Yeager as Chairman, Department of Economics, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.

ASSIGNMENT OF THE NAME LANNIGAN FIELD TO THE NEW TRACK FACILITY
---------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee had voted in favor of naming the new track facility the Lannigan Field. The facility is to be named after Henry H. Lannigan, who served the University from 1904 to 1929. He was the first track coach at the University and is credited with introducing basketball to the University of Virginia. His efforts on behalf of athletics at the University were varied and vigorous.

The Board of Visitors endorsed the action of the Executive Committee, officially assigning the named Lannigan Field to the track facility.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on the current status of the construction program. Among the projects nearing completion are the Chemical Engineering Building, Medical Education Building, Children's Rehabilitation Center Building, and a Vivarium Addition.

REPORT ON BAIL FUNDS
--------------------

The Legal Adviser reported that the Student Council had set aside a fund to be used to provide bail assistance for students. At the February 13th meeting of the Board Mr. Santarelli had requested that the legality of this procedure be investigated. Mr. Middleditch advised the Board that the procedure was in order insofar as he can determine. He explained that contrary to the view expressed in the Cavalier Daily, only students have access to the fund. Senator Scott commented that mass arrests could result in the bankruptcy of such fund.

TRANSFER OF PATRICK HENRY COLLEGE AND THE EASTERN SHORE BRANCH TO THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE SYSTEM
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President had been negotiating with the Community College System and with the advisory committees of Patrick Henry College and Eastern Shore Branch for some time and agreement was reached that Patrick Henry College and the Eastern Shore Branch should be transferred from the University to the Community College System.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Patrick Henry College and the Eastern Shore Branch of the University of Virginia be transferred to the Virginia Community College System, effective July 1, 1971.

THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE NAME HARVEY E. JORDAN TO THE NEW MEDICAL EDUCATION BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised the Board that the Committee on Names had recommended that the new Medical Education Building be named for former dean of the Medical School, Harvey E. Jordan. He served the Medical School as dean from 1938 to 1949 and as a member of the faculty for 42 years. Dean Jordan was a basic medical scientist who made significant contributions to the development of the Medical School.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new Medical Building be and it is hereby named the Harvey E. Jordan Medical Education Building.

INCREASE IN ROTC FEE AUTHORIZATION
----------------------------------

In 1956 the Board of Visitors adopted a resolution authorizing a fee for ROTC students to be used for student activities. A limit of $5.00 per year was set. In view of rising costs, this amount is no longer adequate to carry on the programs.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the upper limit for the ROTC student activity fee which was set at $5.00 per annum by the Board in 1956 be and it is hereby increased to $10.00 per annum.

REPORT ON THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION MEETING, MARCH 4, 1971
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the State Council of Higher Education held a regular meeting at the University on March 4, 1971 and that the State Council indicated a high level of interest in the University and its development. The President reported that since the meeting he had received letters commenting on the fine feeling of the State Council toward the University.

Mr. Santarelli asked if the State standards are still posing a serious problem for the University. The President responded that there is now recognition that various exceptions to the State standards are needed, and that the State Council will support some of these. Mr. Shea commented that classroom space is still a serious problem in the graduate schools. Mr. Barrett pointed out that extensions to the Library should be given top priority. He noted that the last examination period had created a chaotic situation in the Library because there was such a serious shortage of places for students to study.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$ 74,874.23

Free service to Counties and Cities

309,531.47

\---------

Total

$384,405.70

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1952, 1953, 1956, 1957, 1959, 1960, 1967, 1968, 1974, and 1975, aggregating $384,405.70, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$ 74,874.23Free service to Counties and Cities309,531.47---------Total$384,405.70

CHANGE IN APPLICATION FEESFor Students Entering
-----------------------------------------------

Present

1972

1973

All undergraduate programs

$10.00

$15.00

$20.00

Medicine

$15.00

$20.00

$25.00

Law, Graduate Business, and Graduate Architecture

$10.00

$15.00

$20.00

All other schools except General Studies

\--

\--

$10.00

The Board of Visitors adopted a resolution on February 13, 1971 increasing the application fees in one step. Following the adoption of this resolution, the deans urged that the increased application fees be adopted in two increments.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution adopted on February 13, 1971 increasing the application fees be and it is hereby rescinded.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following schedule of application fees be and it is hereby approved: For Students EnteringPresent19721973All undergraduate programs$10.00$15.00$20.00Medicine$15.00$20.00$25.00Law, Graduate Business, and Graduate Architecture$10.00$15.00$20.00All other schools except General Studies----$10.00

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A list of gifts and grants was distributed. The President expressed the special gratitude of the University to Mr. C. Waller Barrett for his continued generosity to the University.

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GERMAN LITERATURE, DEPARTMENT OF SLAVIC LITERATURE, DEPARTMENT OF FRENCH LITERATURE AND GENERAL LINGUISTICS, DEPARTMENT OF SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE LITERATURE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced the establishment in the College of Arts and Sciences of the following departments:

The Department of German Literature and the Department of Slavic Literature from the former Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages and the Department of French Literature and General Linguistics and the Department of Spanish and Portuguese Literature from the former Department of Romance Languages and General Linguistics.

ANNUAL SALARY SCALE FOR THE SCHOOL OF NURSING
---------------------------------------------

PROFESSOR

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Present

$15,000

$16,000

$17,000

$18,000

$19,000

$20,000

Proposed

$16,000

$17,000

$18,000

$19,000

$20,000

$21,000

$22,000

$23,0

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

Present

$12,000

$12,750

$13,500

$14,250

$15,000

$15,750

$16,500

$17,2

Proposed

$12,750

$13,500

$14,250

$15,000

$15,750

$16,500

$17,250

$18,0

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

Present

$10,000

$10,500

$11,000

$11,500

$12,000

$12,500

$13,000

Proposed

$10,500

$11,000

$11,500

$12,000

$12,500

$13,000

$13,500

$14,0

INSTRUCTOR

Present

$ 7,600

$ 8,000

$ 8,400

$ 8,800

$ 9,200

$ 9,600

$10,000

Proposed

$ 8,000

$ 8,400

$ 8,800

$ 9,200

$ 9,600

$10,000

$10,400

$10,8

ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR

Present

$ 6,600

$ 7,000

$ 7,400

$ 7,800

$ 8,200

$ 8,600

$ 9,000

Proposed

$ 7,400

$ 7,800

$ 8,200

$ 8,600

$ 9,000

$ 9,400

$ 9,800

The President explained that State Personnel requirements make it necessary for the School of Nursing to have a separate salary scale. This scale follows the pattern for the four-year colleges.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Annual Salary Scale for the School of Nursing as shown below be and it is hereby approved, effective September 1971: PROFESSOR12345678Present$15,000$16,000$17,000$18,000$19,000$20,000Proposed$16,000$17,000$18,000$19,000$20,000$21,000$22,000$23,0ASSOCIATE PROFESSORPresent$12,000$12,750$13,500$14,250$15,000$15,750$16,500$17,2Proposed$12,750$13,500$14,250$15,000$15,750$16,500$17,250$18,0ASSISTANT PROFESSORPresent$10,000$10,500$11,000$11,500$12,000$12,500$13,000Proposed$10,500$11,000$11,500$12,000$12,500$13,000$13,500$14,0INSTRUCTORPresent$ 7,600$ 8,000$ 8,400$ 8,800$ 9,200$ 9,600$10,000Proposed$ 8,000$ 8,400$ 8,800$ 9,200$ 9,600$10,000$10,400$10,8ASSISTANT INSTRUCTORPresent$ 6,600$ 7,000$ 7,400$ 7,800$ 8,200$ 8,600$ 9,000Proposed$ 7,400$ 7,800$ 8,200$ 8,600$ 9,000$ 9,400$ 9,800

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------

Current 1970-71

Proposed 1971-72

Virginia

$ 585

$ 700

Out-of-State

$1,315

$1,600

The President explained that the tuition rates in the School of Medicine at the University are considerably lower than those at the Medical College of Virginia. It was proposed that the tuition charges at the University be increased. The President also explained that the increment being sought would be the first step toward bringing the tuition charges up to the level of those collected by the Medical College of Virginia. Mr. Potter requested that the matter of a further increase in tuition be placed on the June Docket so that if approved, it can appear in the catalogue at an early date.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition charge for the School of Medicine be and it is hereby increased, effective September 1, 1971, as shown below: Current 1970-71Proposed 1971-72Virginia$ 585$ 700Out-of-State$1,315$1,600

INCREASE IN COMPUTER FEES IN THE GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, effective September 1971, the session computer fees in the Graduate School of Business Administration shall be $50 for first and second year students in the Masters of Business Administration program, and in the first year of the doctoral program.

APPROVAL OF THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY DEGREE PROGRAM AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree program at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved:Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology (Institutional name of program: Cooperative Program in Medical Technology)The program of study includes three sessions of work at Clinch Valley College and twelve months of theoretical and practical education at the University of Virginia School of Medicine or other approved colleges of Medical Technology. Upon successful completion of the requirements the Bachelor of Science degree will be awarded by Clinch Valley College.The program will be submitted to the State Council of Higher Education for approval.

APPROVAL OF DEGREE PROGRAMS IN THE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------

The President explained that nine graduate programs in the School of Education are now before the Board for formal approval to meet the requirements of the State Council of Higher Education.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the degree programs listed below be and they are hereby approved:1. Master of Education in Educational Evaluation2. Master of Education in Educational Research3. Master of Education in School Psychology4. Master of Education in Social Foundations of Education5. Doctor of Education in Educational Evaluation6. Doctor of Education in Educational Research7. Doctor of Education in Higher Education8. Doctor of Education in School Psychology9. Doctor of Education in Social Foundations of EducationThese programs will be submitted to the State Council of Higher Education for approval.

INCREASE IN RATES FOR ROOMS IN THE HOSPITAL AND CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that daily rates for rooms in the hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center be and they are hereby increased by $5.00, effective July 1, 1971.

AUTHORIZATION TO NEGOTIATE THE PURCHASE OF SOUTHERN WELDING PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization is hereby granted to appropriate officials of the University to negotiate the purchase of the improved real property south of Jefferson Park Avenue in Charlottesville now owned by Southern Welding and Machine Shop, Inc., and barring inability to purchase such property at a reasonable price, authorization is also hereby granted to commence condemnation proceedings.

RESOLUTIONS ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOAN
-----------------------------------------

Three resolutions regarding the Clinch Valley College Loan were adopted. The titles of these resolutions are as follows: (1) Resolution Repealing Resolutions Authorizing $455,000 Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds of 1970, Series A, and Awarding Such Bonds, Both Adopted on October 2, 1970.(2) A Resolution Authorizing the Issuance of $455,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds, Series A, to Provide Funds for Paying, With Other Available Funds, the Cost of Constructing a Dormitory to House Approximately 100 Female Students at Clinch Valley College, Wise County, Virginia; Providing for the Fixing, Revising, Charging and Collecting of a Dormitory Fee and the Payment of Such Bonds and the Interest Thereon From the Revenues Derived From Such Fee; and Setting Forth the Rights and Remedies of the Holders of Such Bonds.(3) Resolution Awarding $455,000 The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia Clinch Valley College Dormitory Revenue Bonds, Series A.

Because of the length of the documents they will be made an attachment to the Permanent Minutes. Copies of these documents will be furnished to any member of the Board upon request.

BLANDY FARM (STATE ROUTE 50)
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the importance of the Blandy Experimental Farm, on the south side of State Route 50 in Clarke County, heretofore devised to the University of Virginia is recognized, and;WHEREAS, it has come to the attention of the University that a proposed new lane be constructed to Route 50 such that the lane will be located on the south (Blandy Farm) side of the existing highway, and;WHEREAS, it is the University's understanding that this proposal is based, in part, on an assumption that serious damage will not thereby occur to property located on the south side of the highway;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia hereby records its concern and objects to the proposal for locating a new lane of Route 50 in Clarke County on the south side of the existing highway, a proposal which would require taking property from the Blandy Experimental Farm of the University of Virginia, thereby causing serious damage to the Farm, and;RESOLVED FURTHER that particular objection is recorded because the proposed relocation would cause the destruction of an historic dry stone wall on the Blandy Farm, the wall being seven feet in height, extending for approximately one mile, and being of the type construction such that the wall would be virtually impossible to rebuild.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

A report was received on committee actions and other matters from the Finance and Buildings and Grounds Committees which met jointly on April 2. Buildings and Grounds Committee Chairman J. Sloan Kuykendall included in the report a proposal for the Lambeth Field site plan. Pending the presentation of recommendations by the President, the Board agreed to defer the adoption of a definitive resolution on the Lambeth Field site plan for the present time.

A report was received on committee actions and other matters from the Educational Policy Committee. In his report, Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman pro tem, stressed the problems which have arisen from the record numbers of admissions applications that have been received this year.

A report was received on committee actions and other matters from the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee. Mr. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Committee, stressed in his report the discussion of the Honor Committee. There was also a discussion of Senate Joint Resolution No. 24, expressing the sense of the General Assembly regarding preservation of moral values at State supported institutions of higher learning (the Bateman Resolution).

The President will present statements about the rules in question for the consideration of the Board at the June meeting.

A report was received on committee actions and other matters from the Medical Committee. Committee Chairman Edwin L. Kendig included in his report that the new Medical Education Building will be completed soon, and that Medical School departments will begin to move into the new building in June 1971.

A report was received on committee actions and other matters from the Mary Washington College Committee. Committee Chairman Molly Parrish spoke of exciting programs of study now available at Mary Washington College.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE CHANCELLOR OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE AND HIS STAFF
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In view of the unanimity of opinion that the hospitality for this meeting was delightful, the following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Chancellor and Mrs. Simpson and the staff of Mary Washington College have extended most gracious and generous hospitality to the Board of Visitors, and;WHEREAS the Board has greatly enjoyed its visit to Mary Washington College;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that an expression of thanks to our hosts and hostesses be spread upon the Permanent Minutes of the Board, and that copies be sent to Chancellor and Mrs. Simpson and to the staff of Mary Washington College.

VICE-PRESIDENTS TO BE INVITED TO COMMITTEE MEETINGS
---------------------------------------------------

Mr. W. Wright Harrison proposed that the Vice-Presidents of the University should be invited to attend Board Committee meetings to provide information for the committees. It was the consensus of the members of the Board present that this should be done starting with the June 1971 meeting.

ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON AMENDING THE MANUAL TO PROVIDE FOR THE ELECTION OF ROTC FACULTY MEMBERS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector convened the Executive Committee while the full Board was in session. He explained that the Manual of the Board must be revised in order to conform it to the practice of the Board of electing ROTC faculty members rather than hearing announcements of these appointments. The Board adopted a resolution on October 2, 1970 to provide for election of the ROTC faculty. The Manual must be amended to delete the appointment of ROTC faculty members from the President's duties and powers. Section 5.8 of the Manual provides that the Manual may be amended at any regular meeting of the Board by a majority of all members of the Board provided that the views of the Executive Committee on the amendment have been submitted to the Board, and that notice of the amendment was included in the regular notice of the meeting. Therefore, the Executive Committee, with the full Board present and concurring, adopted the following resolution: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following amendment be and it is hereby made to the Manual of the Board of Visitors:Change, on page 20, Section 4.22 subsection 6 to read as follows:(6) he shall appoint instructors at the first salary step and shall reappoint lecturers after an initial election by the Board;

Notice will be given in the call for the June meeting that the amendment is to be considered at that time.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Stephen A. Disraeli, as Assistant Professor of Linguistics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul B. Manchester, as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Barbara Alden, as Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist for the College, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Rosalia C. Ascari, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles D. Balthis, as Instructor (Cataloguing), for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Michael L. Bass, as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mrs. Martha J. Burke, as Assistant Instructor in Chemistry, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Otho C. Campbell, as Instructor in History, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mrs. Marcia C. Chaves, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. William B. Clatanoff, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Miss Judith A. Crissman, as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Martha G. Darby, as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss F. Linda de Florio, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a salary commensurate with the number of classes taught based on a full-session salary of .Miss Nancy C. Dosch, as Assistant Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Sonja Dragomanovic, as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph J. Ellis, as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Peter Fellowes, as Instructor in English, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Diane L. Fishman, as Instructor (Bibliography), for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mrs. Jeanne Chalifoux Goddin, as Instructor in Music (Harp), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a salary to be paid on a per-student fee basis.Miss Susan J. Hanna, as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph E. Holmes, as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Mildred C. Jamison, as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, one-half time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Constance A. Jones, as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lucile C. Jones, as Assistant Professor of Classics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael Kirschner, as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Riding), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Bernard N. Klenke, as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John M. Kramer, as Instructor in Political Science, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard J. Krickus, as Visiting Lecturer in Political Science, one-half time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Melinda C. Lorenz, as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie, Jr., as Instructor in English, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lydie S. Mann, as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Taketo Ohtani, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Japanese), one-half time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Mary K. Phifer, as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Patricia J. Pierce, as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt, as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Leslie E. Pitts, as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Mary Jacqueline Porter, as Instructor (Reference Librarian), for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mrs. Joanna L. Quann, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Key Sun Ryang, as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Yvonne M. Sabine, as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Jane N. Saladin, as Assistant Instructor (Registrar and Director of Financial Aid), for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Peter V. Snyder, as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Judith K. Warner, as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard H. Warner, as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Richard T. Wilfong, as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Elizabeth Winston, as Instructor in English, one-half time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made:Mr. John M. Albertine, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. James E. Baker, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Music, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Victor Fingerhut, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics and Political Science, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert B. Jessen, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Mary Jo Parrish, Associate Professor, to Professor of Biology, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Mary J. H. Taylor, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence:Miss Constance A. Jones, Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, without pay, to pursue graduate study at Emory University.Miss Carol Ann Kemmler, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at either the University of North Carolina or at Brown.Mr. Galo Rene Perez, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), for one year, effective August 15, 1971, without pay, to continue the study project in Ecuador sponsored by the University of New Mexico.Mrs. Mary W. Pinschmidt, Assistant Professor of Biology, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, without pay, to pursue graduate study at the Medical College of Virginia.Mr. George M. Van Sant, Professor of Philosophy and Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, with half pay, to do post-doctoral research at Cambridge in England.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTION
---------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the special salary action for the following member of the administrative staff of Mary Washington College be and it is hereby made:Mr. Edward V. Allison, Jr., Assistant Professor (Comptroller), to receive an annual salary of , effective April 1, 1971.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Edward Alvey, Jr., Professor of Education, retiring after 37 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1971. Mr. Alvey served as Associate Dean and Dean of the College for 33 years.Mrs. Mildred M. Bolling, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), retiring after 43 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1971.Mr. Clifton B. McIntosh, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), retiring after more than 25 years of service at Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1971.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Bulent I. Atalay, as Chairman of the Department of Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Hobart C. Carter as Chairman of the Department of Mathematics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. L. Clyde Carter, Jr., as Chairman of the Department of Sociology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Miriam J. Greenberg, as Chairman of the Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Pauline G. King, as Chairman of the Department of Art, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Kurt F. Leidecker as Acting Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, to serve while Mr. Van Sant is on leave.Mr. George E. Luntz as Chairman of the Department of Music, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Bernard L. Mahoney, Jr., as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Nancy H. Mitchell, Assistant Dean of the College and Associate Professor of English, reappointed as Assistant Dean of the College (Academic Counseling), for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Paul C. Slayton, Jr., as Chairman of the Department of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner, Professor of Chemistry and Chairman of the Department of Chemistry, appointed as Assistant Dean of the College (Instruction), for three years, effective July 1, 1971.2. Academic Advisory Counsellors (four of the five faculty members who will aid the Assistant Dean of the College (Academic Counselling) in administering the new student academic advisory program, the appointments to become effective at the beginning of the 1971-72 session.Mr. Michael L. Bass, Instructor in Biology.Miss F. Linda de Florio, Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French).Miss Susan J. Hanna, Assistant Professor of English.Miss Rebecca T. Woosley, Associate Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation.

FACULTY SALARY SCALE
--------------------

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

PROFESSOR

1970-1971

$13,100

$13,500

$13,900

$14,300

$14,700

$15,100

$15,500

1971-1972

$13,200

$13,600

$14,000

$14,400

$14,800

$15,200

$15,600

$16,000

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

1970-1971

$11,100

$11,500

$11,900

$12,300

$12,700

$13,100

\--

1971-1972

$11,200

$11,600

$12,000

$12,400

$12,800

$13,200

$13,600

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

1970-1971

$ 9,300

$ 9,600

$ 9,900

$10,200

$10,500

\--

1971-1972

$ 9,400

$ 9,700

$10,000

$10,300

$10,600

$10,900

INSTRUCTOR

1970-1971

$ 8,100

$ 8,400

$ 8,700

$ 9,000

$ 9,300

\--

1971-1972

$ 8,200

$ 8,500

$ 8,800

$ 9,100

$ 9,400

$ 9,700

ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR

1970-1971

$ 7,100

$ 7,400

$ 7,700

$ 8,000

\--

1971-1972

$ 7,200

$ 7,500

$ 7,800

$ 8,100

$ 8,400

MERIT INCREASES

INCREMENT

INTERNAL

Professors and Associate Professors

$400

Annually

Assistant Professors, Instructors, Assistant Instructors

$300

Annually

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to operate under a faculty salary scale effective August 15, 1971 as shown below: 12345678PROFESSOR1970-1971$13,100$13,500$13,900$14,300$14,700$15,100$15,5001971-1972$13,200$13,600$14,000$14,400$14,800$15,200$15,600$16,000ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR1970-1971$11,100$11,500$11,900$12,300$12,700$13,100--1971-1972$11,200$11,600$12,000$12,400$12,800$13,200$13,600ASSISTANT PROFESSOR1970-1971$ 9,300$ 9,600$ 9,900$10,200$10,500--1971-1972$ 9,400$ 9,700$10,000$10,300$10,600$10,900INSTRUCTOR1970-1971$ 8,100$ 8,400$ 8,700$ 9,000$ 9,300--1971-1972$ 8,200$ 8,500$ 8,800$ 9,100$ 9,400$ 9,700ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR1970-1971$ 7,100$ 7,400$ 7,700$ 8,000--1971-1972$ 7,200$ 7,500$ 7,800$ 8,100$ 8,400 MERIT INCREASESINCREMENTINTERNALProfessors and Associate Professors$400AnnuallyAssistant Professors, Instructors, Assistant Instructors$300Annually

TRANSFER OF AUXILIARY ENTERPRISE RESERVE
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to transfer up to $50,000 from the reserve balance in Auxiliary Enterprises to 1970-71 Maintenance and Operating Funds of Auxiliary Enterprises.

STUDENT FEES 1971-1972
----------------------

Current Fees 1970-71

Proposed Changes

Proposed Fees 1971-72

General College Fees

$ 685

$ 685

Student Activity Fee

27

27

Residential Fee (Including Laundry, Infirmary)

385

$ 83

468

Board

373

47

420

\-------

\------

\-------

Total Virginia Student

$1,470

$130

$1,600

Non-Resident Tuition

755

\--

755

\------

\--------

Total Non-Virginia

$2,225

$130

$2,355

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to establish the following student fee schedule, effective August 15, 1971 for the year 1971-1972: Current Fees 1970-71Proposed ChangesProposed Fees 1971-72General College Fees$ 685$ 685Student Activity Fee2727Residential Fee (Including Laundry, Infirmary)385$ 83468Board37347420--------------------Total Virginia Student$1,470$130$1,600Non-Resident Tuition755--755--------------Total Non-Virginia$2,225$130$2,355

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Jay Stanley as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

CHANGE OF TITLE
---------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following change of title be and it is hereby made:Mr. Jay Stanley, from Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, to Assistant Professor of Sociology, effective February 1, 1971.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Leon E. Boothe as Dean of the College, for two years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. John A. Oppelt as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Lorin A. Thompson as Chancellor of George Mason College, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.

ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRATION FEE AT GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following statement be and it is hereby approved for inclusion in the catalogues of George Mason College:Any student not in residence at George Mason College who is preparing a dissertation under the active supervision of a member of the faculty, or who wishes to return to receive a degree or take an examination, pays a $15.00 registration fee for that semester and is exempt from all other fees.Any person who is undertaking any form of academic study with George Mason College including supervised research, must be registered as a student and pay the prescribed fees.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following election be and it is hereby made:Mr. Robert J. Gwinn as Lecturer in General Studies and Assistant Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Andre C. de Porry as Dean, School of General Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1971.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERELECTION
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following election be and it is hereby made:Mr. David A. Brewster as Lecturer in General Studies and Assistant Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, for one year, effective March 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following re-election be and it is hereby made:Mrs. Lucille E. Whyburn as Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 11:53 a.m.

RCB:jb
