---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1971'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1971) June 4, 1971
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 4, 1971

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 4, 1971
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:37 a.m. on June 4, 1971 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Wright Harrison, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., Brownie E. Polly, Jr., William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, and C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr. Absent were J. Sloan Kuykendall, Hugh Scott, and J. Harvie Wilkinson, III. Messrs. Vincent Shea, Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., and Frank L. Hereford, Jr. were present throughout the meeting. Mr. Grellet C. Simpson was unable to attend because of the graduation activities at Mary Washington College.

The minutes of the meeting of April 3, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1972. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., J. Sloan Kuykendall, and C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1971-1972. The committee assignments are as follows: Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr. Mary Washington College CommitteeMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Medical CommitteeDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., ChairmanDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, ChairmanMr. Edwin K. MatternMrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettDr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr.Mr. J. Sloan KuykendallSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Miss Laura S. Abernathy as Instructor in Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Nils A. Baas as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Malcolm Bell, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Linda R. Berner as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Harvey E. Bines as Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), part-time for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Patricia C. Booth as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Brent Bridgeman as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Eugene H. Brock as Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Jay C. Brown as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John J. Callahan, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Robert E. Cape as Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Damon L. Diemente as Acting Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Michael P. Dooley as Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John J. F. Fournier as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Lois Z. Garren as Instructor in Drama, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. David H. Gaunt as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. William M. Gilbride as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. James H. Grady as Visiting Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Miss Barbara A. Graham as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester and one and one-half summer months, for five years, effective September 1, 1971, at a salary of .Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. P. Browning Hoffman as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and of Law, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. Wythe W. Holt, Jr., as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Dr. Wallace H. Holthaus as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Bion B. Howard as The Virginia Bankers Association Professor of Bank Management, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss D. Jane Ikenberry as Instructor in Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Linwood Jacobs as Instructor in Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Joseph R. Kelly as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ravindra S. Khare as Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Leo A. Koleski, Jr., as Research Assistant, Institute of Government, effective April 21, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. David W. Leslie as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Frank W. McCulloch as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Thomas McFarland as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Dr. Karl F. Menk as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Kurt Meyberg as Visiting Associate Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Samuel E. Miller as Professor of Family and Community Medicine in Internal Medicine, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Gordon Mills as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Laurence S. Moss as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Soumeyendra N. Mukherjee as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of .Mr. Rodney Needham as Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Darren Newtson as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Oswald Nielsen as Carman G. Blough Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert W. O'Connell as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Francis P. Parker as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Miss Janis L. Peacock as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Dr. William E. Reefe as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. John F. Reynolds as Assistant Professor of German, one-third time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. James B. Roberts as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Albert F. Rodewald as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John A. Ryland as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Leonard L. Scott, Jr., as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Kay E. Selman as Instructor in Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Charles C. Sisson as Junior Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 19, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Stephen S. Skjei as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. Alexander E. Sproul as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Glenn E. Stoner as Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. William H. Talbot as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. William L. Thompson as Lecturer in Applied Mathematics, three-fourths time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III, as Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of , of which is to be paid from local funds.Mr. David B. Waters as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at an annual salary of , to be paid entirely from local funds.Mr. James A. White as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. A. Wayne Wymore as Visiting Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for the period June 15, 1971, through August 31, 1971, at a salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. CHARLES J. BISHKO AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Charles J. Bishko be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. FREDERICK R. CYPHERT AS CURRY MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Frederick R. Cyphert be and he is hereby elected Curry Memorial Foundation Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .

ELECTION OF MR. ENNO E. KRAEHE AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Enno E. Kraehe be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. ROBERT S. BROWN
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Dr. Robert S. Brown as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, as approved by the Board on April 3, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Alfred A. Arth as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Lester F. Belter as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Howard Bryant as Professor of Education, School of General Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Nellie B. Carwile as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective April 1, 1971.Mr. Karl-Achim Czemper as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Cora Diamond as Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1971. Miss Diamond served as a Lecturer in Philosophy during the 1969-70 session.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972.Dr. Leoncio A. Garcia as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Leigh E. Grosenick as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Barbara S. Haas as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Peter Hackett as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Robert W. Hearn as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Mary Catherine Huey as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Samuel E. Kellams as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Roberta A. Kiefer as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Clinical Psychology), for two years, effective July 1, 1970.Mr. Lauren G. Leighton as Assistant Professor of Russian, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Margaret P. Mandrillo as Associate Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective January 1, 1972.Mrs. Gail S. Marshall as Assistant Professor of Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Miss Sue McCoy as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for the period June 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Dr. Willys M. Monroe as Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. David E. Powell as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ian P. Priban as Visiting Research Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for the period June 1, 1971, through September 30, 1971.Dr. Thomas L. Sarvay, Jr., as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at no salary from the University.Miss Gertrude E. Schroeder as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. K. L. Seshagiri Rao as Professor of Religious Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. MiSoo-Bae Smith as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Don L. Walker as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. H. Conrad Warlick as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Stephen D. Waters as Lecturer in Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Marcus O. Workman as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.

CHANGE IN TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. MICHAEL L. MEZEY
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Michael L. Mezey, as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, as approved by the Board on February 13, 1971, be changed to two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Suresh K. Agarwal, Visiting Assistant Professor, to Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for the period August 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Dr. M. Shannon Allen, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Nuzhet O. Atuk, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Dr. Thomas H. Bain, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychology, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of $24,000.Dr. Wilton H. Bunch, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. William W. S. Butler, III, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Francis A. Carey, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. David H. Cohen, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. William C. Constable, Associate Professor, to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Stanley S. Cooke, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. W. Walker Cowen, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Dr. Byard S. Deputy, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Nicholas C. Edsall, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Richard E. Ellis, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert R. Fair, Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Eugene A. Foster, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Paul M. Gaston, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Dr. Gerald Goldstein, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Microbiology, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Harold B. Johnson, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. William H. Kaufman, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. James D. Kitchin, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Miss Charlotte Kohler, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective July 1, 1971.Miss Eleanor G. May, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Wilhelm Moll, Associate Professor, to Professor, Medical Library, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Mr. Michael J. Peach, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Mr. Donald E. Ramirez, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil, Associate Professor, to Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. James C. Respess, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Edward J. Rinalducci, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John Ruvalds, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Arthur I. Schulman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Roger P. Sherman, Associate Professor, to Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. William W. Sihler, Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of Mr. C. Ray Smith, Associate Professor, to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Stanley E. Sobottka, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Dr. Nickolas J. Sojka, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of Dr. Marian K. Solowy, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. William F. Sowers, Clinical Instructor, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. David D. Stone, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Robert E. Stong, Associate Professor, to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Benjamin C. Sturgill, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Roby C. Thompson, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Orthopedics, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Dr. Paul R. VanOstenberg, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Hans-Jurgen Weber, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. David W. Weiss, Associate Professor, to Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Herbert H. Winkler, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1971, at annual salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Leigh E. Grosenick, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept a fellowship from the American Society for Public Administration.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period September 1, 1971, through May 31, 1972, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at Loyola University of the South.Mr. Roland N. McKean, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, for research and writing.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, without pay, to accept a fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Union Camp Professor of Chemical Engineering, for the period May 24, 1971, through June 18, 1971, without pay, to serve as Visiting Expert and Consultant for Advanced Summer School in Technical Economics for Chemical Engineering Teachers at Indian Institute of Technology, Janpur, India.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, FEBRUARY 13, 1971
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted to Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, as approved by the Board on February 13, 1971, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Anthony D. Woozley, Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Arizona.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Josef J. Barton, from Acting Assistant Professor of History, to Assistant Professor of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Harold W. Berk, from Acting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, to Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Curtis M. Brooks, from Lecturer in Humanities, to Assistant Professor of Humanities, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, from Professor of Business Administration, to Professor of International Business, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gerald A. Heeger, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period April 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Samuel E. Kellams, from Acting Assistant Professor of Education, to Assistant Professor of Education, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Michael W. Moohr, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period June 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Ganas K. Rakes, from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Mr. John S. Rose, from Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, to Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for the period May 1, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Eugene E. Ruyle, from Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for the period May 3, 1971, through June 30, 1973.Mr. John J. Yiannias, from Acting Assistant Professor of Art, to Assistant Professor of Art, for the period May 1, 1971, through January 31, 1972.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield, Professor of Neurosurgery, effective June 30, 1971. Dr. Crutchfield has been a member of the faculty since 1941.Dr. Yin-Tang Hsu, Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1971. Dr. Hsu has been a member of the faculty since 1945.Mr. Lawrence T. Ludwig, Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1971. Mr. Ludwig has been a member of the faculty since 1925.Mr. T. Braxton Woody, Professor of French, effective June 30, 1971. Mr. Woody has been a member of the faculty since 1928.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. W. Gayle Crutchfield, Professor of Neurosurgery.Dr. Yin-Tang Hsu, Professor of Pathology.Mr. Lawrence T. Ludwig, Professor of Education.Mr. T. Braxton Woody, Professor of French.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Charles B. Braden, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at Northern Kentucky State College.Mr. Pierre E. Conner, Jr., Commonwealth Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at Louisiana State University.Dr. Mounir Y. Dafashy, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective August 31, 1971, to seek psychoanalytic training.Dr. Jean-Pierre C. A. Demars, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, effective July 31, 1971, to enter private practice.Mr. Robert Dolan as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, effective June 30, 1971, to devote more time to research and teaching.Mr. Bryant C. Freeman, Associate Professor of French, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at the University of Kansas.Mr. Francis R. Hart, Professor of English, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at the University of Massachusetts.Mr. Peter Hauri, Assistant Professor of Psychology in Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at Dartmouth Medical School.Mr. Marcus B. Mallett as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, effective June 30, 1971, for personal reasons.Mr. Marvin S. Schindler, Associate Professor of German, effective June 30, 1971, to accept the position as Chairman of the Department of Modern Languages, Northern Illinois University.Mr. W. Cullen Sherwood, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at Madison College.Dr. Donald J. Waldowski, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 15, 1971, to enter private practice.Mr. Anthony D. Woozley as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, effective June 30, 1971, to devote full time to teaching and research.Dr. Johan Zwaan, Associate Professor of Anatomy, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position at the Harvard Medical School.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Nils A. Baas as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Eugene H. Brock as Director, Computing Activities, and Director, Region II Computing Center, State of Virginia, for five years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Howard Bryant as Director, Department of Urban Affairs and Community Services, School of General Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Alan L. Caspar as Acting Director, Blandy Farm, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Lester G. Crocker as Acting Chairman, Department of Spanish and Portuguese Literature, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Robert L. Ellison as Chairman, Department of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Assistant Director, Counseling Center, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Dr. C. Donald Hammond as Consultant, Counseling Center, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Ronald M. Hartwell as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Miss D. Jane Ikenberry as Assistant Dean of Students, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Linwood Jacobs as Assistant Dean of Students, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Elizabeth J. Johnson as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Assistant Dean, School of Law, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. William A. Little as Chairman, Department of German Literature, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Peter W. Low as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Frank W. McCulloch as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ernest C. Mead, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Music, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Kurt Meyberg as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John N. Moore as Director, Graduate Program, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Rodney Needham as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson as Chairman, Department of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Charles A. Plesums as Manager, Programming and Systems, for one year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Leonard L. Scott, Jr., as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson as Director of Placement, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. George B. Thomas as Chairman, Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. David W. Weiss as Chairman, Department of Speech and Drama, for one year, effective September 1, 1971.

DEATH OF MR. LUCIUS GASTON MOFFATT
----------------------------------

CLAUDE A. JESSUP CHAIR IN SURGERY
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Claude A. Jessup Professorship in Surgery.

MAMIE A. JESSUP PROFESSORSHIP IN OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Chair in the School of Medicine to be known as the Mamie A. Jessup Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology.

APPROVAL OF THE 1971-1972 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

The University Budget was discussed by the President and Vice-President Shea. Mr. Shea gave an optimistic report but cautioned that the 1971-1972 budget while balanced, is tighter than the budget for the previous year. The President noted that there is a significant increase in the appropriation for the Library.

The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter reported that the Finance Committee recommended the approval of the Budget. Then upon motion, duly seconded, the 1971-1972 Budget was approved by unanimous vote.

APPROVAL OF THE 1971-1972 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

The Hospital Budget was discussed by Mr. Shea. He noted that the Hospital continues to operate in the black. The Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter, reported that the Finance Committee recommended the approval of the Hospital Budget. Then upon motion, duly seconded, the 1971-1972 Hospital Budget was approved by unanimous vote.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President then distributed a report on admissions (see appendix) and discussed the report which indicates that a record number of applications have been received for the class that will enter in the fall of 1971.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE 1966 BOARD MANUAL
-------------------------------------------

In order to change the Board of Visitors' Manual to indicate that the Board will elect ROTC faculty as it does other faculty members, the Executive Committee met on April 3, 1971 with the full Board present, and approved the change. In accordance with Section 5.8 of the Manual, the proposed amendment was included in the regular notice of the meeting.

Upon motion, duly seconded, the following resolution was unanimously approved:

Change, on page 20, Section 4.22 subsection 6 to read as follows:

he shall appoint instructors at the first salary step and shall reappoint lecturers after an initial election by the Board;

TUITION AND CHARGES IN THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following tuition charges in the School of General Studies be and they are hereby increased as shown below, effective September 1, 1971:Graduate courses increased from $20.00 to $23.00 per semester hourUndergraduate courses increased from $17.00 to $20.00 per semester hour

DECEMBER 1972 MEETING DATE
--------------------------

The dates for the December 1972 meetings of the Board were set as December 7, 8, and 9.

REPORT ON APPROVAL OF DEGREE PROGRAMS BY THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported the approval of the following degree programs by the State Council of Higher Education:

A. At Charlottesville:

1\. Master of Science Degree in Accounting

2\. Master of Arts Degree in General Linguistics

3\. Master of Arts Degree in Religious Studies

B. At George Mason College:

1\. Bachelor of Science in Business Administration

2\. Bachelor of Arts in German

3\. Bachelor of Arts in Government and Politics

4\. Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy

5\. Bachelor of Science in Law Enforcement

6\. Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare

7\. Bachelor of Arts in History

8\. Bachelor of Arts in Teaching in History

9\. Master of Education in Secondary Education

a. Master of Education in School Administration

b. Master of Education in School Supervision

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President distributed the AAU Salary Scale and discussed the position of the University on the scale. He pointed out that the percentage of increase in average compensation for the University of Virginia was larger during 1970-71 than for all reporting institutions, and that the University continues in a strong position.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts, etc.

$119,154.52

Free service to Counties and Cities

340,414.37

\-----------

Total

$459,568.89

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 1982, 1983, 1986, 1987, 1989, 1990, 1997, 1998, 2001, 2002, 2004, and 2005, aggregating $459,568.89, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts, etc.$119,154.52Free service to Counties and Cities340,414.37-----------Total$459,568.89

REVISED RESOLUTION REGARDING HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution of September 10, 1948, naming the Hospital Accounts Committee as the Medical Director of the Hospital, the Comptroller of the Hospital, and the Bursar of the University be and it is hereby rescinded, and;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Hospital Accounts Committee be constituted of the Comptroller for Medical Affairs, the Hospital Controller, and the Director of the University Hospital.

REPORT ON VISITATION RULES
--------------------------

The President reported on the rules for dormitory visitation. He noted that the administrators will advise parents of students under the age of 21 of the rules. The Rector asked the Legal Adviser, Mr. Leigh B. Middleditch, to prepare a legal opinion as to the adequacy of these rules as a protection for the Board of Visitors.

INCREASE IN THE FEE FOR THE VIRGINIA LAW WEEKLY
-----------------------------------------------

The President recommended that the fee for the Virginia Law Weekly be increased by $1.00 to a total of $7.00 per semester, and that it be combined with the Law School activities fee ($1.00) and a new fee of $4.00 per session to pay the administrative costs of the new examination schedule.

The Board voted to consider the $4.00 fee for examination costs separately from the remaining fees, following which the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the fee paid by students in the School of Law for the Virginia Law Weekly be and it is hereby increased from $6.00 to $7.00 per session and that to this amount shall be added the $1.00 per session Law School Activities Fee, with a total composite Law School fee of $8.00 per session, effective September 1, 1971.

A motion to include the $4.00 fee for examination costs was subsequently defeated, there being five votes in favor and 7 opposed to the motion.

INCREASE IN THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE
---------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the comprehensive fee be and it is hereby increased in the amount of $5.00 per session; the proceeds from this increase are to be used solely to amortize a loan of approximately $257,000 over a five year period at an interest rate of six percent for the purpose of remodeling Newcomb Hall.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE PERRY FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that an expression of gratitude be made to the Perry Foundation for providing fourteen highly desirable tennis courts which will bring pleasure and healthful recreation to generations of students and faculty and will add further richness to the life of those who learn and those who teach at the University.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR
--------------------------

The Rector announced that it will probably be necessary to have a special meeting of the Board around August 1, to approve the mortgage bonds. He observed that this responsibility cannot be delegated to a committee.

DISCUSSION OF THE PROJECTED GROWTH OF THE UNIVERSITY
----------------------------------------------------

A discussion of the Preliminary Meeting of the Board of Visitors which was held on June 2, 1971 followed. It was the consensus of the Board that the programs and projections that have been developed for the University should be carried forward as presented to the Governor and his Budget Advisers on May 26, 1971.

In the discussion, Mr. Lawrence Lewis stressed the importance involving the Board of Visitors in the University's long range planning. Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley expressed the view that the University must accommodate to population pressures, and that the size of the enrollment is not really under the control of the Board or the University. Mr. William S. Potter agreed with the view of Mr. Wheatley. He further pointed out that the University is not "striving to achieve the 18,000 figure".

Mr. Edwin Mattern stressed the point that the 18,000 figure is not a goal that we are working toward, but he feels that this point is not well understood in Western Virginia.

Mr. Barrett warned that in order for the quality of educational opportunity at the University to remain high, adequate funds must be provided. He warned against diluting the quality of offerings. He also expressed concern about the possible consequences of rejecting a large number of well qualified Virginia applicants.

Mr. Santarelli asked if it is necessary to limit admission more severely until additional facilities are available. The President replied that staff work on these questions is continuing, and that the matter will have to come back to the Board for consideration at future meetings. The additional staff work is especially necessary in view of the recently developed space standards.

FACULTY MORTGAGE BONDS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has received a disclosure by the firm of Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gibson, Attorneys at Law, Richmond, Virginia, pursuant to Section 3 (a) (2) of the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act, of certain members of associates (or their spouses) of such firm who serve governmental agencies other than the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS, it is deemed desirable for the University of Virginia to retain Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gibson for legal services as its Bond Counsel in connection with a proposed issue of the University's bonds relating to faculty housing, which contract being for legal services is a kind which the Board of Visitors deems inappropriate for competitive bidding;BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia:(1) Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gibson, Attorneys at Law, Richmond, Virginia, shall be retained as Bond Counsel in connection with the proposed issue of the University's bonds relating to faculty housing.(2) The agreement to retain Hunton, Williams, Gay, Powell and Gibson as Bond Counsel in connection with the issuance of the University's bonds for faculty housing is a contract for services which, in the judgment of the Board of Visitors, in the public interest should not be acquired through competitive bidding.(3) This resolution shall be filed as a matter of public record with the regular minutes of the meeting of the Board.

SELECTION OF INVESTMENT COUNSEL
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Finance Committee be and it is hereby authorized to explore the selection of a firm to serve as investment counsel for the Finance Committee. The engagement of such counsel is to be approved by the Executive Committee.

AUTHORITY FOR THE UNITED VIRGINIA BANK TO MANAGE CERTAIN INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS OF THE UNIVERSITY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, proposed the following resolution which was adopted:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the United Virginia Bank be and it is hereby authorized to manage on a day to day basis without prior approval for each specific investment action, those investment portfolios of the University of Virginia held by this bank in accordance with the investment objective designated, and within those policy guide lines deemed prudent and appropriate by the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors.

PROCEDURE FOR REMUNERATION OF CLINICAL FACULTY IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following regulations governing the remuneration of geographic full-time clinicians of the School of Medicine be and they are hereby approved to be retroactively effective July 1, 1970:1. The basic salary and total income limits of the Geographical Full-time Clinician will be negotiated each year between the clinician, the Department Chairman, and the Dean, in accordance with limits approved by the Governor."Pool Fund"2. (a) The Pool Fund is to be derived solely from contributions from each Clinical Department of only ten percent (10%) of its gross earnings exclusively from private practice and laboratory services.(b) Contributions are to be made each month to the Pool Fund which will be held by the Bursar of the University of Virginia for appropriate distribution at or near the end of each fiscal year.(c) The sole control of the Pool Fund shall rest in the hands of the Clinical Staff and the Dean of the School of Medicine. The Clinical Staff shall be represented by a committee of the Chairmen of all Clinical Departments and the Chairman of the Clinical Staff Standing Committee for Remuneration and and Contracts. The Bursar, as custodian of the Pool Fund, shall recommend disbursements from the fund which must be first approved by the Dean and the Committee of the Chairmen designated in 2 (c) above.(d) Disbursements from the Pool Fund are to be made by the Bursar to the proper Clinical Departments and, in turn, the Clinical Departments will, through the Bursar, distribute the money to the accounts of individuals.(e) The Pool Fund cannot be used for Hospital, Medical School or University purposes. It is to be used only for redistribution to Clinical Departments and as further specified in Paragraph 3.(f) The Clinical Departments are to use the Pool Fund first for assuring TIAA contributions of its practicing clinicians, the Vice President for Health Sciences and the Dean of the School of Medicine, and second, for assuring, as far as possible, the attainment of their allowed income ceilings by practicing clinicians.(g) If the Pool Fund should exceed its needs it shall be returned on a pro rata basis to those Clinical Departments whose contributions exceeded their receipts from the Pool Fund. Once returned to Clinical Departments it will be used as specified in paragraph 3.3. Any money remaining in a Clinical Department account after its contribution to the Pool Fund, paying its general expenses, paying TIAA contributions for its members and paying its members their collections up to allowed income ceiling shall be distributed as follows: One-third to its Reserve Fund, one-third to the Research and Development Fund and one-third to the Pool Fund. Provided the Pool Fund does not need it the money will be divided equally between the Departmental Reserve Fund and the Research and Development Fund, up to its proportionate share in a Research and Development Fund which may accumulate annually a sum of $25,000. If deficits occur, it is understood that the Pool Fund Committee must provide for them.4. A Departmental Chairman wishing to fill a temporarily vacated position or to establish a new position shall, as in the past, get the approval of the Dean and necessary money will automatically become a general departmental expense as specified in paragraph 3, exclusive of anticipated income from the Pool Fund.5. Prolonged illness of a clinician with consequent cessation of his earnings may be, at the discretion of the Departmental Chairman and the Dean, compensated for as a general departmental expense up to 100 percent of the clinician's ceiling for the first six months and thereafter the Departmental Chairman and the Dean are to make some suitable arrangement.6. The so-called $750.00 "Merit Raise" shall be, as in the past, a matter for the decision of the Departmental Chairman and the Dean and will automatically become a general departmental expense as specified in paragraph 4.6. Clinicians who have retired from Departmental Chairmanships because of age (65) or other reasons, but remain as members of Clinical Departments until age 70 shall receive their earnings up to their allowed ceilings, less the usual deductions (Pool Fund, 10%; Departmental Expenses, 20%; Withholding Tax). Retired Chairmen who do not reach their allowed earned income ceiling must have the Dean's permission to have their income supplemented by their Department.9. The estate of a clinician who dies while still a member of a Department shall retain indefinitely his rights to his earnings up to the time of his death. As a courtesy, however, money collected on his accounts shall be paid monthly to his heir or heirs without deductions for either the Pool Fund or Departmental expenses. Resigned or retired clinicians likewise shall retain indefinitely their rights in their earnings up to the time of separation from the Department. Each year, money collected on his accounts, up to his allowed annual ceiling, shall be paid to him monthly after deducting ten percent (10%) for the Pool Fund and twenty percent (20%) for Departmental expenses.7. A clinician who retires or resigns retains no equity in his uncollected accounts, nor does the estate of a clinician who dies while still a member of a department retain equity in uncollected accounts.8. Any question as to the interpretation of the provisions of this contract which shall arise during the time it is in force shall be adjudicated by the Clinical Staff Standing Committee for Remuneration and Contracts and the Dean of the School of Medicine. \* \* 1. Paragraphs deleted are shown in brackets. 2. All new language is underlined.

1\. Paragraphs deleted are shown in brackets.

2\. All new language is underlined.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO FRANK L. HEREFORD, JR.
----------------------------------------------

The President announced that this will be the last meeting at which Mr. Frank L. Hereford, Jr. will serve as Vice-President and Provost. He will continue to serve the University as Robert Taylor Professor of Physics.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the gratitude of the Board be expressed to Frank L. Hereford, Jr., as he retires from the post of Vice-President and Provost. His energy and his influence have enhanced the quality of the faculty and greatly improved the quality of the University. The Board of Visitors wish for him success and happiness as he returns as Robert Taylor Professor of Physics to teaching and research, and expresses the hope that as he leaves the post of Vice-President and Provost that God will walk with him.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THOMAS H. HUNTER
----------------------------------------

The President noted that Dr. Thomas H. Hunter retired from the position of Vice-President for Medical Affairs on February 28, 1971. He continues to serve the University as Owen Cheatham Professor in the Sciences.

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Thomas H. Hunter has served the University with the highest level of competence as the Dean of the School of Medicine, Chancellor for Medical Affairs, and Vice-President for Medical Affairs, and;WHEREAS his leadership and wisdom have benefited the whole University;THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the sincere thanks of the Rector and the Board of Visitors go to Dr. Hunter as he continues his service to the University as Owen Cheatham Professor in the Sciences, along with best wishes for continued success and happiness.

REENGAGEMENT OF MASTER SITE PLANNING FIRM OF SASAKI, DAWSON DEMAY ASSOCIATES, INC.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Sasaki, Dawson, DeMay Associates, Inc., be and it is hereby authorized to restudy and update the 1966 master site plan giving special priority to the study of the Lambeth Field and Birdwood sites and preparing recommendations relative to these sites.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Reports from the Educational Policy Committee, Medical Committee and the Mary Washington College Committee were presented. A report from a combined meeting of the Finance and Buildings and Grounds Committees was also presented. In that report the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr. William S. Potter, reported that the meetings of the two committees will be held separately in subsequent meetings, since each committee has so much business to transact.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Donald V. Byrd as Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Barbara S. Hochstetler as Assistant Professor of Art (Art History-Medieval Art), for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Alexander J. Lindsey as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Paul M. Zisman as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Teruo Hara as Assistant Professor of Art, three-quarters time, for one year, effective August 15, 1971, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leaves of absence:Mr. John P. Bruckner, Assistant Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, for the second semester of the 1971-72 session, effective with the opening of the semester, with one-half salary, to pursue graduate study at the University of Virginia.Mr. Richard J. Krickus, Visiting Lecturer in Political Science, one-half time, for the first semester of the 1971-72 session, effective with the opening of the semester, without salary, to carry out his work at the Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs under a Ford Foundation grant.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Miss Carol Ann Kemmler, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a research assistantship and begin a program of graduate study at Brown University.Mrs. Marian Reed Watts, Head Cataloguer (with the academic rank of Assistant Professor), effective June 30, 1971, to assume early retirement after approximately 19 years of service to the College.Miss Elizabeth Winston, Instructor in English, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a teaching assistantship and begin a program of graduate study at the University of Wisconsin.Mr. Richard M. Zelenock, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a teaching position with the Fairfax County Public School System.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Albert G. Duke, Chairman of the Department of Speech, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Claude T. Parcell, Jr., Business Manager for Auxiliary Enterprises, effective April 1, 1971.Mr. Thomas S. Turgeon, Associate Professor of Dramatic Arts, Acting Chairman of the Department of Drama, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.

CHANGE IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------

The President announced the following change in the effective date of the appointment of Mr. Lawrence A. Wishner as Assistant Dean for Instruction from July 1, 1971 to August 1, 1971, to free Mr. Wishner to work on the COSIP project during the months of June and July. (Mr. Wishner's appointment as Assistant Dean for Instruction was announced at the April 1971 Board meeting.)

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Edward Alvey, Jr., Professor of Education, who retires June 30, 1971, after having served on the faculty of the College for 37 years.Mrs. Mildred M. Bolling, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (French), who retires June 30, 1971, after having served on the faculty of the College for 43 years.Mr. Clifton B. McIntosh, Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), who retires June 30, 1971, after having served on the faculty of the College for more than 25 years.

ABSENCE OF THE CHANCELLOR FROM THE MEETING
------------------------------------------

In view of the fact that the Graduating Exercises were scheduled to be held on Saturday, June 5, the Chancellor was unable to attend the meeting. The President presented the Mary Washington College matters to the Board on behalf of the Chancellor.

APPROVAL OF THE MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE BUDGET FOR 1971-1972
------------------------------------------------------------

The Mary Washington College Budget having been recommended by the Mary Washington College and Finance Committees was formally approved by the Board of Visitors.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mrs. Lois A. Phipps as Instructor in Nursing, for one year, effective April 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. Donald H. Askins as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Roy A. Ball as Associate Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Peter A. Dollard as Associate Professor of Library Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Paul D. Elosser as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Harold L. Gilbert as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Betty J. Gilliam as Assistant Professor of Art, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Carl L. Gusler as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. George L. Hawpe as Assistant Professor of Political Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Lois P. Lowry as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Stanley H. Botts, Associate Professor, to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Miss Diedre H. Brantley, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Music, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Ford W. Edwards, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Jack M. Holland, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer work, and for administrative duties, or a total salary of Mr. William J. Hooper, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Jimmy N. Humphries, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of .Miss Doris M. Kilgore, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Catherine J. Mahony, Lecturer, to Assistant Professor of English, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Augusto A. Portuondo, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of Mr. Leo S. Willis, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.

RESIGNATION
-----------

The following resignation was announced: Mr. Bob G. Raines, Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective June 30, 1971, to accept a position with the Washington County School System.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Roy A. Ball as Director of Admissions, for one year, effective July 16, 1971.Mr. George E. Culbertson as Registrar, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Jack M. Holland as Acting Dean, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.

ESTABLISHMENT OF DEGREE PROGRAMS AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following degree programs at Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved:(a) B.A. with a College Major(b) B.S. in Elementary Education

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF AMENDATORY LOAN AGREEMENT - HUD CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, a public educational institution, organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (herein called the "Borrower"), has heretofore entered into a certain Loan Agreement dated as of May 1, 1969, (herein called the "Loan Agreement") with the United States of America, Department of Housing and Urban Development (herein called the "Government") with respect to a loan to the Borrower under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended; andWHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that certain revisions be made in the said Loan Agreement, and the Government has pursuant thereto submitted to the Borrower a certain Amendatory Loan Agreement dated as of May 1, 1970, (herein called the "Amendatory Loan Agreement"), for approval and execution by the Borrower, which said Amendatory Loan Agreement is satisfactory;NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Board of Visitors of the Borrower that the said Amendatory Loan Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby approved. The Comptroller is hereby authorized and directed to execute the said Amendatory Loan Agreement in the name and on behalf of the Borrower, in as many counterparts as may be necessary, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to affix or impress the official seal of the Borrower thereon and to attest the same. The proper officer is directed to forward the said executed counterparts of the said Amendatory Loan Agreement to the Government, together with such other documents evidencing the approval and authorization to execute the same as may be required by the Government.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mrs. Alice C. Andrews as Lecturer in Geography, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Frank Cannavale, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Bernard J. Lieb, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. James N. Madero as Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Anthony R. Marchione as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Sven E. Molin as Associate Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Mian M. Saeed as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Stephen H. Saperstone as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Clayton M. Schindler as Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1971, at a session salary of , plus 20 percent for summer and for administrative duties, or a total salary of .Mr. James H. Sood as Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Assistant Professor of Education, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Victorio G. Aguera as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. George E. Andrykovitch as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Paul M. Arriola as Associate Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ted R. Bradley as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Nancy C. Brooks as Assistant Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Barbara F. Chambers as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Joseph A. Childress, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Anthony C. Churchman as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Edmund D. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Anne D. Cordero as Assistant Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Frederick J. Dorey as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Arlette R. Evans as Assistant Professor of French, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Ruth A. Flint as Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Richard A. Gleissner as Assistant Professor of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John W. Godbold as Assistant Professor of Government, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Robert T. Hawkes, Jr., as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Irmgard W. Hobson as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Barnard D. Joy as Professor of Education, one-half time, for two years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Joseph M. Kanyan as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Michael R. Kelley as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. William T. Kiley as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Wilbert A. King as Acting Assistant Professor of Music, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Mitchell B. Lazarus as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Dorothy I. MacConkey as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Evans J. Mandes as Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Michael J. McDermott, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. E. Jean McKeithen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Henry P. Meyer as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John A. Oppelt as Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Josephine F. Pacheco as Assistant Professor of History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Jia-Jeou Peng as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Samuel H. Phillips, Jr., as Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. J. Robert Rinehart as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Emiko Sakurai as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Michael P. Sampson as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mrs. Linnea I. Sennott as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Jay C. Shaffer as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. John P. Soder as Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Ess B. Solomon as Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Hale N. Tongren as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. James E. White as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.Mr. Norman A. Yance as Acting Assistant Professor of Religion, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1971.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Howard R. Bloch, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Robert F. Cozzens, Assistant Professor of Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Esther N. Elstun, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of German, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Angela J. Khoury, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Government, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Dimitrios A. Papaconstantopoulos, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. John M. Smith, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mr. Raymond H. Spuhler, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physical Education, effective July 1, 1971, at an annual salary of .Mr. Nicholas J. Tavani, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .Mrs. Aileen S. Walls, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of .

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. Louis J. Aebischer as Director of Admissions, for three years, effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Esther N. Elstun as Chairman, Department of Foreign Languages, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Clayton M. Schindler as Dean, College II, for five years, effective July 1, 1971.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:00 noon.

RCB:jb

APPENDIX UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - ADMISSIONS REPORT FOR FALLS 1970 AND 1971 MAY 24, 1971 Office of Institutional Analysis OIA-7071-181 \* \* As of May 5, 1971. TABLE 1: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - ADMISSIONS REPORT - FOR FALLS 1970 AND 1971 BASED ON MONTHLY REPORTS OF THE ADMISSIONS OFFICEUNDERGRADUATETABLE 2: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ADMISSIONS REPORT - FALL 1971 COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES - BY SEXTABLE 3: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - ADMISSIONS REPORT - FOR FALLS 1970 AND 1971GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Applications Received

Offered Admission

Accepted Admission

May 18, 1970

May 18, 1971

May 18, 1970

May 18, 1971

May 18, 1970

May 18, 1971

College of Arts and Sciences

Va.

2,407

3,712

1,626

1,803

1,118

1,194

Non-Va.

2,517

3,666

1,114

1,194

570

616

Total

4,924

7,378

2,740

2,997

1,688

1,810

Architecture

Va.

136

112

54

46

33

34

Non-Va.

248

301

63

113

45

71

Total

384

413

117

159

78

105

Commerce

Va.

36

68

12

19

6

19

Non-Va.

16

27

0

7

0

5

Total

52

95

12

26

6

24

Education

Va.

91

114

63

78

52

66

Non-Va.

52

69

24

37

17

25

Total

143

183

87

115

69

91

Engineering

Va.

544

565

396

414

208

226

Non-Va.

547

578

353

384

143

148

Total

1,091

1,143

749

798

351

374

Nursing

Va.

104

118

89

90

82

74

Non-Va.

56

62

44

45

35

31

Total

160

180

133

135

117

105

All Schools Undergraduate

Va.

3,318

4,689

2,240

2,450

1,499

1,613

Non-Va.

3,436

4,703

1,598

1,780

810

896

Total

6,754

9,392

3,838

4,230

2,309

2,509

Applications Received

Offered Admission

Accepted Admission

As of 5-18-71

As of 5-18-71

As of 5-18-71

Women

Men

Women

Men

Women

Men

Virginians

1,524

2,188

583

1,220

396

798

Non-Virginians

1,174

2,492

184

1,010

108

508

Total

2,698

4,680

767

2,230

504

1,306

Applications Received

Offered Admission

Accepted Admission

April 30, 1970

April 30, 1971

April 30, 1970

April 30, 1971

April 30, 1970

April 30, 1971

Grad. Architecture

Va.

9

19

4

11

2

\-

Non-Va.

35

73

19

31

6

1

Total

44

92

23

42

8

1

Grad. Arts and Sciences

Va.

501

702

267

303

111

149

Non-Va.

2,319

2,484

1,129

1,007

287

268

Total

2,820

3,186

1,396

1,310

398

417

Grad. Business

Va.

129

142

52

61

2

4

Non-Va.

402

408

171

169

7

11

Total

531

550

223

230

9

15

Grad. Education

Va.

732

710

504

557

504

557

Non-Va.

211

284

147

189

147

189

Total

943

994

651

746

651

746

Grad. Engineering

Va.

70

123

47

107

27

67

Non-Va.

360

412

150

171

43

34

Total

430

535

197

278

70

101

Law

Va.

568

715\*

190

161

106

115

Non-Va.

2,098

2,795\*

321

263

77

120

Total

2,666

3,510\*

511

424

183

235

Medicine

Va.

290

338

100

98

55

70

Non-Va.

1,114

1,501

86

87

37

29

Total

1,404

1,839

186

185

92

99

All Schools Graduate and Professional

Va.

2,299

2,749

1,164

1,298

807

962

Non-Va.

6,539

7,957

2,023

1,917

604

652

Total

8,838

10,706

3,187

3,215

1,411

1,614

As of May 5, 1971.

TABLE 1: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - ADMISSIONS REPORT - FOR FALLS 1970 AND 1971 BASED ON MONTHLY REPORTS OF THE ADMISSIONS OFFICEUNDERGRADUATEApplications ReceivedOffered AdmissionAccepted AdmissionMay 18, 1970May 18, 1971May 18, 1970May 18, 1971May 18, 1970May 18, 1971College of Arts and SciencesVa.2,4073,7121,6261,8031,1181,194Non-Va.2,5173,6661,1141,194570616Total4,9247,3782,7402,9971,6881,810ArchitectureVa.13611254463334Non-Va.248301631134571Total38441311715978105CommerceVa.36681219619Non-Va.16270705Total52951226624EducationVa.9111463785266Non-Va.526924371725Total143183871156991EngineeringVa.544565396414208226Non-Va.547578353384143148Total1,0911,143749798351374NursingVa.10411889908274Non-Va.566244453531Total160180133135117105All Schools UndergraduateVa.3,3184,6892,2402,4501,4991,613Non-Va.3,4364,7031,5981,780810896Total6,7549,3923,8384,2302,3092,509

TABLE 2: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ADMISSIONS REPORT - FALL 1971 COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES - BY SEXApplications ReceivedOffered AdmissionAccepted AdmissionAs of 5-18-71As of 5-18-71As of 5-18-71WomenMenWomenMenWomenMenVirginians1,5242,1885831,220396798Non-Virginians1,1742,4921841,010108508Total2,6984,6807672,2305041,306

TABLE 3: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - ADMISSIONS REPORT - FOR FALLS 1970 AND 1971GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONALApplications ReceivedOffered AdmissionAccepted AdmissionApril 30, 1970April 30, 1971April 30, 1970April 30, 1971April 30, 1970April 30, 1971Grad. ArchitectureVa.9194112-Non-Va.3573193161Total4492234281Grad. Arts and SciencesVa.501702267303111149Non-Va.2,3192,4841,1291,007287268Total2,8203,1861,3961,310398417Grad. BusinessVa.129142526124Non-Va.402408171169711Total531550223230915Grad. EducationVa.732710504557504557Non-Va.211284147189147189Total943994651746651746Grad. EngineeringVa.70123471072767Non-Va.3604121501714334Total43053519727870101LawVa.568715\* 190161106115Non-Va.2,0982,795\*32126377120Total2,6663,510\*511424183235MedicineVa.290338100985570Non-Va.1,1141,50186873729Total1,4041,8391861859299All Schools Graduate and ProfessionalVa.2,2992,7491,1641,298807962Non-Va.6,5397,9572,0231,917604652Total8,83810,7063,1873,2151,4111,614
