---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1972'
month: 4
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1972) April 7, 1972
==============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

April 7, 1972

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA April 7, 1972
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:30 p.m. on April 7, 1972 in the Office of the Chancellor at Mary Washington College with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Barrett, Brown, Buford, French, J. Hartwell Harrison, W. Harrison, Leggett, Lewis, Polly, Potter, Scott, Wilkinson, and Zimmer. Absent: Visitors Mattern and Santarelli. Messrs. David A. Shannon Edwin M. Crawford and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting. Messrs. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present for a portion of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of February 3, 1972, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

The Rector announced to the Board the appointment by the Governor of Mr. Robert P. Buford of Richmond, Mr. Warren B. French, Jr. of Edinburg, Mr. William E. Leggett of Charlottesville, and Mr. William L. Zimmer, III, of Richmond.

APPOINTMENT OF THE STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeMary Washington College CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced the appointments to the standing committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1972. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Mary Washington College CommitteeMrs. E. Parker Brown, ChairmanMr. C. Waller Barrett Dr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, IIIMr. William L. Zimmer, III Medical CommitteeDr. J. Hartwell Harrison, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr. Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. William E. LeggettMr. Edwin K. MatternMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Waller Barrett, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. William E. LeggettDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1972. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Mrs. E. Parker Brown, W. Wright Harrison, and William L. Zimmer, III. Joseph H. McConnell and C. Waller Barrett will continue to serve.

MEETING DATES FOR 1973
----------------------

February 1, 2, 3, 1973

Charlottesville

April 5, 6, 7, 1973

Charlottesville

May 30, 31, June 1, 1973

Charlottesville

September 27, 28, 29, 1973

Charlottesville

December 13, 14, 15, 1973

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tentative location and meeting dates for the February, April, June, October, and December 1973 meetings shall be as set forth below: February 1, 2, 3, 1973CharlottesvilleApril 5, 6, 7, 1973CharlottesvilleMay 30, 31, June 1, 1973CharlottesvilleSeptember 27, 28, 29, 1973CharlottesvilleDecember 13, 14, 15, 1973Charlottesville All of the 1973 meeting dates are subject to final confirmation by the Board at its meeting in December 1972.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Stephen L. Baehr as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. Alfred K. Baur as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective January 1, 1972.Mr. Alan R. Beckenstein as Assistant Professor of Business Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. Joseph A. Bono as Assistant Professor of Surgery, part-time, for two years, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. John D. Casey as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary ofMr. Hugh M. Davidson as Professor of French Literature, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Charles R. Dawson as Visiting Professor of Chemistry, for the period April 10, 1972, through May 19, 1972.Mr. Gadis J. Dillon as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Stephen B. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mrs. Suzanne U. Emerson as Assistant Professor of Microbiology, for three years, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Thomas W. Epps as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. Raymond F. Ford as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mr. Steven J. Fox as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Roy H. Geiss as Lecturer in Materials Science, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Michael J. Graetz as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Jeffrey K. Hadden as Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Miss Frances H. Hall as Associate Professor and Associate Law Librarian, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary ofMiss Suzette A. Henke as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Arlyn C. Jurin as Assistant Professor of Nursing, one-half time, for the period February 1, 1972, through July 31, 1972, at a salary of.Mr. James J. Kent as Assistant Professor of Physics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Roger C. Leonhard as Instructor in Economics, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Major Thomas C. Lynch as Associate Professor of Air Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ian R. Macneil as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Murray Milner, Jr., as Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of .Dr. George Moore as Clinical Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine, for the period March 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972, part-time, at a salary of.Mr. Geoffrey W. R. Palmer as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. Vito A. Perriello, Jr., as Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1971.Mrs. Margaret H. Pertzoff as Visiting Assistant Professor of History, one-third time, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary of.Colonel Ralph D. Pinto as Lecturer in Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. M. Rashiduzzaman as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, at a salary ofDr. Robert C. Raynor as Clinical Instructor in Family and Community Medicine, for one year, effective March 1, 1972.Mr. John Ritchie, III, as Professor of Law, one-half time, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary ofMr. David D. Roberts as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Charles R. Russell as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Stephen A. Saltzburg as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. Thomas B. Stage as Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for one year, effective January 1, 1972.Mr. William J. Starosta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Williard E. Stone as Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Dr. William F. Tompkins, III, as Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. William H. Van Hoose as Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. R. Jack Weber as Associate Professor of Behavorial Science, Graduate School of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. George E. White as Assistant Professor of Law, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Jane B. Zambuto as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective March 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.

ELECTION OF MRS. WILLIE LEE ROSE AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mrs. Willie Lee Rose be and she is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1973, at a session salary of.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. S. Manuchehr Alavi as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Edythe J. Allen as Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973.Mr. Samuel J. Berner as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Jeanne C. Biggar as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Harvey E. Bines as Assistant Professor of Law, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Warren L. Coats, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John E. Craig as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William P. Culbertson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Robert Dawidoff as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Richard F. Edlich as Instructor in Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. John R. Faulkner as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher as Visiting Professor of Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. John C. Hortenstine as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Yukon Huang as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three years, effective September 1, 1973.Colonel James P. Robertson as Professor of Air Science, for one year, effective August 1, 1972.Mr. Jerome R. Saroff as Associate Professor of City Planning, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Gertrude E. Schroeder as Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Ragnar Smith-Meyer as Visiting Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three months, effective June 1, 1972.Dr. Don P. Whited as Clinical Instructor in Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD R. RANTA
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Richard R. Ranta as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on December 11, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Charles F. Maine, Jr., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry (Vocational Rehabilitation), to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Vocational Rehabilitation), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Hugh B. Martin, Jr., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry (Vocational Rehabilitation), to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Vocational Rehabilitation), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Ronald V. Scheele, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. James Shaeffer, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Dr. Jagdish S. Teja, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective January 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Hugh M. Davidson, Professor of French Literature, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, to complete commitments at The Ohio State University.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane, Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to serve as visiting scientist, State University of New York, at Stony Brook.Mr. Philip J. Fisher, Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship.Mr. Herbert O. Goller, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept an N.I.H. Special Fellowship at New York University Medical School.Mr. Wesley L. Harris, Sr., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Visiting Associate Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Mrs. Barbara Y. Howard, Assistant Professor of Radiology, for the period June 1, 1972, through August 31, 1972, without pay, to serve as research participant at the Medical Division, Oakridge Associated Universities.Mr. Yukon Huang, Assistant Professor of Economics, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to teach in Tanzania, University of Dar es Salaam, under the sponsorship of the Rockefeller Foundation.Mr. Ravindra S. Khare, Professor of Anthropology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to conduct field research under a senior faculty research fellowship from the American Institute of Indian Studies.Mr. John N. Moore, Professor of Law, and Director, Graduate Program, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Counselor on International Law, Department of State.Mr. Julian V. Noble, Associate Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to devote full time to research.Mr. Walter Sablinsky, Assistant Professor of History, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a Senior Fellowship of the Russian Institute, Columbia University.Mr. Theodore R. Turner, Associate Professor of Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to allow for a more concentrated effort in the development of own painting.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to carry out research and writing in the general area of Buddhist Studies.Mr. Lev Zetlin, University Professor of Architecture and of Civil Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to take care of professional activities away from the University.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. William P. Culbertson, from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, to Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period February 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974.Mr. Henry R. Odell, from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for the period April 1, 1972, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Alan Saleski, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the period October 1, 1971, through June 30, 1974.Dr. Thomas E. Williams, from Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective February 1, 1972.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. David W. Caley, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective August 31, 1972, to enter the University of Virginia Medical School.Mr. Eric J. Hahn, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective July 16, 1972, because of family obligations.Mr. Spencer Hall, Assistant Professor of English, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at Rhode Island College.Mr. George W. Holmes, III, as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, effective June 30, 1972, to devote full time to teaching.Mr. G. Siegfried Kutter, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at Evergreen State College, Olympia, Washington.Mr. Stanislaw J. Makielski, Jr., Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1972, for personal reasons.Mrs. Gail S. Marshall, Assistant Professor of Law, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position with Hogan and Hartson, Washington, D. C.Mr. David B. Morris, Assistant Professor of English, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at American University.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. James Childress as Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Hugh M. Davidson as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Ian R. Macneil as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. John A. Owen, Jr., as Vice-Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. William H. Seawell as Chairman, Department of Administration and Supervision, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard as Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration, for five years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Charles R. Tolbert as Acting Chairman, Department of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William H. Van Hoose as Chairman, Department of Counselor Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Avery Catlin as Associate Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for two years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Irby B. Cauthen, Jr., as Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick as Chairman, Department of Astronomy, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick as Director, Leander McCormick Observatory, for five years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Frederick Hartt as Chairman, Department of Art, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Graham C. Lilly as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Peter W. Low as Associate Dean, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg as Director, Bureau of Population and Economic Research, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull as Assistant Dean and Director of Admissions, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

CHANGING OF THE NAME OF THE ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN PSYCHIATRY TO THE CARLSON PROFESSORSHIP IN PSYCHIATRY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the Alumni Professorship in Psychiatry in the School of Medicine be and it is hereby changed to the Carlson Professorship in Psychiatry.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President reported on the current status of the University's construction program. He pointed out that the construction of the Law School complex is well along, and that the Nursing School Building is nearing completion. Work is progressing well on the School of Education Building and the associated pedestrian overpass.

NAMING OF THE NEW SCHOOL OF NURSING BUILDING
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new School of Nursing Building be and it is hereby named the Josephine McLeod Nursing Education Building.

REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE PAYMENT OF TUITION, FEES, AND ROOM RENT ON THE INSTALLMENT PLAN
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change in the State payroll date from the first to the seventh of the month has caused difficulty for a significant number of students who sign deferred payment agreements for tuition, fees and room rent. The Board's present rule is that payments made after the third of the month are subject to penalty.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University regulations governing the payment of tuition, fees and room rent on the installment plan be and they are hereby revised to read as follows:Installment Plan - In exceptional cases, the student may sign a contract for semester charges permitting payments as follows:First Semester - After applying required deposits, one-third of the balance at the time of registration; one-third on 7 November; one-third on 7 December.Second Semester - One-third at the time of registration; one-third on 7 March; one third on 7 April.Penalties For Failure to Meet Payments When Due - A student who fails to meet payments when due, but who pays his fees on or before the twentieth of the month in which payment is due, is charged a service fee of $1.00. A student who fails to meet payments by the twentieth of the month in which payment is due will automatically be suspended. He may not attend classes until he has been reinstated and has paid all accrued fees, plus a reinstatement fee of $5.00. Applications for reinstatement are to be made at the Office of the Treasurer. If a student has not been reinstated within two weeks from the date of suspension, he may not be reinstated for that semester.

REPORT ON SEWARD FOREST
-----------------------

The President reported that petitions had been received from various groups in Brunswick County expressing opposition to the sale of the Seward Forest for commercial use. He advised that the State Department of Game and Inland Fisheries might be in a position to purchase the Forest. The Department has requested a delay in negotiations so that a purchase plan can be developed.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$124,304.30

Free service to Counties and Cities

429,704.10

\------------

Total

$554,008.40

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 2123, 2124, 2126, 2127, 2141 and 2142, aggregating $554,008.40, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$124,304.30Free service to Counties and Cities429,704.10------------Total$554,008.40

INCREASE IN ROOM RATES
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the session rental charge per occupant in the McCormick Road Houses, the Alderman Road and Observatory Houses, Monroe Hill Houses, the Lawns and Ranges, Mary Munford House, Roberta Gwathmey House, McKim Hall, and the Crackerbox be and it is hereby increased $25.00, effective September 1, 1972.

INCREASE IN TUITIONUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA PROPOSED TUITION INCREASES 1972-74
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

School

Virginians

Out-of-State Students

Actual

Proposed

Actual

Proposed

1971-72

1972-73

1973-74

1971-72

1972-73

1973-74

College, Commerce, Nursing & Education

$365

$415

$440

$1,040

$1,190

$1,265

Engineering & Architecture

415

465

490

1,040

1,190

1,265

Graduate A & S, Law, Engineering, Education, Architecture & DBA in Graduate Business

Old Students

365

415

440

875

1,025

1,100

New Students, Fall 1972

\-

450

475

\-

1,100

1,175

New Students, Fall 1973

\-

\-

500

\-

\-

1,265

School of Law

Old Students

440

490

515

1,220

1,370

1,445

New Students, Fall 1972

\-

520

545

\-

1,445

1,520

New Students, Fall 1973

\-

\-

600

\-

\-

1,600

Graduate Business

Old Students

680

730

\-

1,400

1,550

\-

New Students, Fall 1972

\-

775

800

\-

1,625

1,700

New Students, Fall 1973

\-

\-

800

\-

\-

1,700

Medicine

700

800

open

1,600

1,850

open

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following schedule of tuition payments be and it is hereby adopted, effective for the sessions indicated: (See following page)

SchoolVirginiansOut-of-State StudentsActualProposedActualProposed1971-721972-731973-741971-721972-731973-74College, Commerce, Nursing & Education$365$415$440$1,040$1,190$1,265Engineering & Architecture4154654901,0401,1901,265Graduate A & S, Law, Engineering, Education, Architecture & DBA in Graduate BusinessOld Students3654154408751,0251,100New Students, Fall 1972-450475-1,1001,175New Students, Fall 1973--500--1,265School of LawOld Students4404905151,2201,3701,445New Students, Fall 1972-520545-1,4451,520New Students, Fall 1973--600--1,600Graduate BusinessOld Students680730-1,4001,550-New Students, Fall 1972-775800-1,6251,700New Students, Fall 1973--800--1,700Medicine700800open1,6001,850open

INCREASE IN COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comprehensive Fee be and it is hereby increased in the amount of $5.00 per session, the proceeds of this increase shall be used to support the Student Health service.

REPORT ON ACTIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
-----------------------------------------

The President reported that he had been received in a cordial manner by the members of the General Assembly. He expressed appreciation to members of the Board and to sponsors who had supported the bill to provide funds for the Graduate School of Business Administration Building. Mr. Crawford expressed concern about a bill which had been introduced that would eliminate the functions of Board of Visitors of State Colleges and Universities. He also warned that a bill limiting out-of-State enrollment might be introduced at a future legislative session.

In conclusion the President expressed thanks to Senator Willey and Senator Michael who have supported the University's requests throughout the session.

REPORT TO THE FULL BOARD ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE JAMES MONROE LAW OFFICE MUSEUM AND MEMORIAL LIBRARY IN FREDERICKSBURG
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that at the direction of the Rector, the Executive Committee was polled by telephone on February 24, 1972. All members except Dr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr. were reached. The Committee approved a resolution endorsing the action of the Rector who directed that legislation should be included in the bill establishing Mary Washington College as a separate institution to transfer the James Monroe Law Office-Museum and Memorial Library to the Board of Visitors of Mary Washington College.

CHANGE OF NAME OF THE SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES TO THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the School of General Studies be and it is hereby changed to the School of Continuing Education, effective July 1, 1972.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CONTINUATION OF PLANNING FOR THE RESTORATION OF THE ROTUNDA
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the action of the Buildings and Grounds Committee to continue planning for the restoration of the Rotunda be and it is hereby approved and accepted;RESOLVED further that the Board approves the plans prepared by Ballou and Justice for the replacement of the rooms that were removed from the Rotunda by Stanford White, so that the interior structure and proportions will be as they were designed and built by Thomas Jefferson (according to the model of the Pantheon) and as they existed from his death until the fire of 1895;RESOLVED further that the Board's approval is conditioned only upon the necessity of procuring funds for the work, and that the Board encourages the Committee and the President to continue the search for such funds;AND BE IT RESOLVED that the Board specifically authorizes an application by the President at this time to the United States Department of Housing and UrbanDevelopment for a grant of one half of the total estimate of $2,176,500, so that, with matching funds from non-Federal sources, this Historic American Landmark can be restored to its original design by the nation's anniversary year, 1976.

REAPPOINTMENT OF THE MANAGERIAL GROUP WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President explained that to avoid the effort of obtaining security clearances for each member of the Board, a policy was established to approve a resolution delegating responsibility for classified information in connection with Department of Defense contracts to a managerial group. The group was last designated by the Board on February 3, 1972. Under the Industrial Security regulations, a resolution designating the managerial group must be adopted each time the membership of the Board is changed.

Contracts between The Rector and Visitors and the Department of Defense require that the University follow security procedures as outlined in the Industrial Security Manual.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that as required under paragraph 22 d (2) and otherwise in the Industrial Security Manual, Department of Defense, the following persons be and they are hereby specifically and properly designated as the MANAGERIAL GROUP having the authority and responsibility for the negotiation, execution, and administration of User Agency Contracts:Mr. David A. Shannon, Vice-President and Provost (Alternate Signatory)Mr. Vincent Shea, Vice-President for Business and Finance (Alternate Signatory)Mr. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., University Comptroller (Principal Signatory)Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Associate Provost for Research (Alternate Signatory)BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Visitors does hereby delegate all of its duties and responsibilities pertaining to the protection of classified information to the Managerial Group named above. The Board of Visitors shall not require, shall not have, and can be effectively excluded from access to all classified information in the possession of the University and the members do not occupy positions that would enable them to affect adversely the University's policies or practices in the performance of classified contracts or programs for the User Agencies.Mr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that the entire "academical village" has been designated as a historic landmark by the National Park Service Department of Interior. He also reported that the location for a fire station near University Hall is being studied.Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the Committee has authorized the transfer of funds held by the University for Mary Washington College to the Rector and Visitors of Mary Washington College. The Committee met with Mr. Ward Sims who is beginning his work as Director of Development.Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported that projections indicate that 2,102 students will be enrolled in September of 1972. The Betty Lewis property will not be purchased by the College.Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported that the Rector has authorized the appointment of an ad hoc Library Committee. He also reported that the Faculty and University Relations Document which was developed by the University Senate is now in force and that faculty members are using the procedures. The Chairman introduced Vice-President and Provost David A. Shannon, who discussed the work of the Committee on the Future of the University in reviewing enrollment projections.

EXPRESSION OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRED BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------------------------

The Rector expressed the gratitude of the University to Dr. Edwin L. Kendig, Jr., Mr. J. Sloan Kuykendall, Mrs. E. Alton Parrish, Sr., and Mr. C. Stuart Wheatley, Jr., who have recently retired from service on the Board. He praised the dedication of these retired members and expressed the appreciation of the Board of Visitors as well as his own for their distinguished service.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mr. Timothy H. Jensen as Assistant Professor of Religion, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Roger L. Kenvin as Professor of Dramatic Arts, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Teruo Hara as Associate Professor of Art, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. John P. Johnson as Instructor in Education, part-time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, with actual compensation (1,100) for the first semester based on a full-time session salary of. The compensation for the second semester will be paid at the rate ofper student for the student teachers he will have under his supervision.Mr. Richard J. Krickus as Associate Professor of Economics and Political Science, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington:Miss Barbara Alden as Instructor in Bibliography and Archivist of the College, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Charles D. Balthis as Instructor (Cataloguing), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mr. Michael L. Bass as Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, with actual compensation based on a session salary ofMrs. Janet Bonyhard as Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, with actual compensation for 1972-73 based on a session salary of.Miss Juanita H. Clement as Assistant Professor of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Renna H. Cosner as Assistant Professor (Circulation), for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Mr. Daniel A. Dervin as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Sonja Dragomanovic as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Dance), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Joseph J. Ellis as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of .Mrs. Diane L. Fishman as Instructor (Bibliography), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of .Miss Janet M. Gardner as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Jeanne C. Goddin as Instructor in Music (Harp), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a salary to be paid on a per student fee basis.Mr. James B. Gouger as Assistant Professor of Geography, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Ruby C. Harris as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a base session salary of, the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.Miss Kathleen Harty as Instructor in Health, Physical Education and Recreation (Dance), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Ronald K. Hoeflin as Instructor (Assistant Catalogr), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Miss Ayako Imai as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Mildred C. Jamison as Assistant Professor of Home Economics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a base session salary of, the exact compensation to be determined by the number of classes taught.Miss Constance A. Jones as Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at no salary.Mr. Lafayette J. Jones as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Michael L. Kirschner as Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation (Riding), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. John L. Lamph as Assistant Professor of Art, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, with actual compensation for 1972-73 based on a session salary of.Mrs. Melinda A. Lorenz as Instructor in Art, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Bruce David MacEwen as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Lydie S. Mann as Assistant Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (French), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Taketo Ohtani as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Japanese), one-half time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Leslie E. Pitts as Instructor in Physics, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Miss Mary Jacqueline Porter as Instructor (Reference Librarian), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mrs. Edward B. Sabine as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Raman K. Singh as Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Arthur L. Tracy as Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Alexander Tyree as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Judith K. Warner as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (German), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions of members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby made:Mr. Clavio F. Ascari, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Nathaniel H. Brown, Associate Professor, to Professor of English, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of .Mr. Otho C. Campbell, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of History, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Miss Nancy C. Dosch, Assistant Instructor, to Instructor in Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Ruth T. Friedman, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Biology, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Miss Susan J. Hanna, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of English, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Mathew Herban, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Art, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Miss Rose Mary Johnson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Biology, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of .Mr. John M. Kramer, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Carlton R. Lutterbie, Jr., Instructor, to Assistant Professor of English, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Alice B. Rabson, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Key Sun Ryang, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of History, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mrs. Jane N. Saladin, Assistant Instructor, to Instructor (Registrar and Director of Financial Aid), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary ofMr. Richard L. Sarchet, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Edward F. Shaughnessy, Jr., Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of.Mr. Benjamin F. Zimdars, Associate Professor, to Professor of History, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of .

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Bulent I. Atalay, Associate Professor of Physics, and Chairman of the Department, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, with half pay, to do research at Oxford University in England.Mr. Michael L. Bass, Instructor in Biology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, with half pay, to pursue graduate study at a school not yet determined.Mrs. Janet Bonyhard, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for the first semester of the 1972-73 session, effective August 16, 1972, with half pay, to do research at the University of London in England.Miss Constance A. Jones, Instructor in Sociology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, without pay, to pursue graduate study at Emory University.Mr. John L. Lamph, Assistant Professor of Art, for the first semester of the 1972-73 session, with half pay, effective August 16, 1972, to study in Paris by appointment to the University Center's Paris Atelier.

SPECIAL SALARY ACTIONS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members of Mary Washington College shall receive the salary indicated:Mr. Edward V. Allison, Jr., Comptroller with academic rank of Assistant Professor, at an annual salary of, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. James H. Croushore, Dean of the College and Professor of English, at an annual salary ofeffective July 1, 1972.Mr. John K. George, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, at a session salary of, commensurate with his reduced teaching load for the 1972-73 session, effective August 16, 1972, (Mr. George's teaching load and salary reduced to three-fourths).Mr. Donald E. Glover, Associate Professor of English and Chairman of the Department, at a session salary of, effective August 16, 1972.Mr. Michael Houston, Assistant Chancellor and Associate Professor of History, at an annual salary of, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Nancy H. Mitchell, Associate Professor of English, at a session salary of, effective August 16, 1972.Mr. Roy B. Weinstock, Associate Professor of Psychology and Chairman of the Department, at a session salary of, effective August 16, 1972.

RESIGNATIONS AND RETIREMENTS
----------------------------

The following resignations and retirements were announced: Mrs. Zoe Wells Carroll Black, Professor of Biology, retiring after 25 years of service to Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1972.Mrs. Eleanor D. Dibble, Lecturer in Social Work, resigning for personal reasons, effective June 15, 1972.Mr. Ricardo Dobson, Assistant Professor of Psychology, resigning to accept a position outside the teaching profession, effective June 15, 1972.Mrs. Jean Slater Edson, Professor of Music and Physics, retiring after 25 years of service to Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1972.Mr. Robert B. Jessen, Associate Professor of Sociology, resigning to accept another position, effective June 30, 1972.Mr. George E. Luntz, Professor of Music and Chairman of the Department, retiring after 15 years of service to Mary Washington College, effective June 30, 1972.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: 1. Departmental ChairmanshipsMr. Samuel T. Emory, Jr., Professor of Geography, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of Geography, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Lewis P. Fickett, Jr., Professor of Economics, and Political Science, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of Economics and Political Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Anne F. Hamer, Associate Professor of Music, appointed as Chairman of the Department of Music, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Roger L. Kenvin, Professor of Dramatic Arts, appointed as Chairman of the Department of Dramatic Arts, for three years, effective August 16, 1972.Mr. Alexander J. Lindsey, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, appointed as Chairman of the Department of Mathematics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Laura V. Sumner, Professor of Classics, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of Classics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Joseph C. Vance, Professor of History, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of History, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. George M. Van Sant, Professor of Philosophy, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Roy B. Weinstock, Associate Professor of Psychology, reappointed as Chairman of the Department of Psychology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.2. Assistant Dean for Academic CounselingMiss Susan J. Hanna, Assistant Professor of English, and Academic Adviser in the Office of the Dean, as Assistant Dean for Academic Counseling, for one year, effective July 1, 1972. (Miss Hanna's promotion to Associate Professor, effective July 1, 1972, will not take place before she takes on the responsibility of the Assistant Dean for Academic Counseling.)3. Academic AdvisersMr. Richard E. Hansen, Assistant Professor of English, appointed as Academic Adviser in the Office of the Dean, for two years, effective August 16, 1972.Mr. Michael L. Mery, Assistant Professor of Psychology, appointed as Academic Adviser in the Office of the Dean, for two years, effective August 16, 1972.Mrs. Cornelia D. Oliver, Associate Professor of Art reappointed as Academic Adviser in the Office of the Dean,

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE CHANCELLOR OF MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE AND HIS STAFF
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS Chancellor Simpson, Mrs. Simpson, and the staff of Mary Washington College have for many years extended gracious hospitality to the Board of Visitors, providing at the College an outstanding setting for a Regular Meeting of the Board each Spring; andWHEREAS, the April 1972 meeting is the last to be held in Fredericksburg before Mary Washington College achieves independent status; andWHEREAS the Board has especially enjoyed the hospitality of Mary Washington College at the April meeting;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that expressions of thanks and appreciation to our hosts and hostesses at Mary Washington College be included in the Permanent Minutes of the Board, and that copies of this resolution be sent to Chancellor and Mrs. Simpson and to the staff of Mary Washington College.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mrs. Billye B. Henson as Instructor in Music, for one semester, effective February 1, 1972.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. William F. Maxwell, Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, with half-pay, to pursue the Ph.D. degree.Mr. Warren W. Norton, Assistant Professor of Political Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to complete dissertation.

NAMING OF THE NEW WOMEN'S DORMITORY AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE TO BE THE EMMA MCCRARAY HALL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the newly completed women's dormitory at Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby named Emma McCraray Hall.

REPORT ON RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE AND THE UNIVERSITY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the faculty of Clinch Valley College had adopted a resolution requesting that no change in relationship between the faculty of Clinch Valley College and the University be made at this time.

INCREASE IN TUITION AT CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------

Virginians (Per Semester)

Out-of-State Student (Per Semester)

Actual Proposed

Actual Proposed

Tuition, students carrying 12 semester hours or more

$170.00

$185.00

$200.00

$235.00

Tuition, part-time students (carrying up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour

$ 15.00

$ 16.00

$ 17.00

$ 20.00

Comprehensive fee

$ 15.00\* \*Students enrolled for less than four semester hours shall pay $5.00 per semester.

$ 15.00\*

$ 15.00\*

$ 15.00\*

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that tuition charges at Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby increased as follows, effective the fall semester 1972-73: Virginians (Per Semester)Out-of-State Student (Per Semester)Actual ProposedActual ProposedTuition, students carrying 12 semester hours or more$170.00$185.00$200.00$235.00Tuition, part-time students (carrying up to 12 semester hours) per semester hour$ 15.00$ 16.00$ 17.00$ 20.00Comprehensive fee$ 15.00\* \*Students enrolled for less than four semester hours shall pay $5.00 per semester. $ 15.00\*$ 15.00\*$ 15.00\*

Students enrolled for less than four semester hours shall pay $5.00 per semester.

INVITATION OF THE CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FACULTY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President explained that the Board was invited to meet at Clinch Valley College by the faculty there. The invitation specified the April meeting. The Secretary of the Board wrote to Chancellor Smiddy explaining that the April meeting was already planned for Fredericksburg and that the June meeting must be held in Charlottesville to conform to the provisions of the Manual. There was discussion about a fall meeting at Clinch Valley College, but no final decision was reached in the matter.

GEORGE MASON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of George Mason College:Mr. Darius L. Swann as Assistant Professor of Religion, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of.Mrs. Norma Y. Trowbridge as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1971, at a session salary of.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE BOARD REGARDING GEORGE MASON COLLEGE DIPLOMAS
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced a policy which for June 1972 only will permit a student receiving a diploma from George Mason College to elect having the diploma read University of Virginia or George Mason University.

REPORT ON LEGISLATION FOR THE TRANSFER OF GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that the Governor was scheduled to sign the bill establishing George Mason University as an independent institution on April 7. While the separation officially takes place on March 1, the financial aspects of the transfer are not to be finalized until June 30, 1972.

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 4:15 p.m.

RCB:jb
