---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1972'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1972) June 2, 1972
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 2, 1972

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 2, 1972
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:25 a.m. on June 2, 1972 in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell; President Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., and Visitors Barrett, Brown, Buford, J. Harrison, W. Harrison, Leggett, Lewis, Mattern, Polly, Potter, Santarelli, Wilkinson, and Zimmer. Absent: Visitors French and Scott. Messrs. Leigh B. Middleditch, Jr., David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Edwin M. Crawford, Kenneth R. Crispell and D. Alan Williams were present throughout the meeting. Messrs. Grellet C. Simpson and Michael Houston were present for a portion of the meeting.

The minutes of the meeting of April 7, 1972, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1966 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1973. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Joseph H. McConnell, C. Waller Barrett, Mrs. E. Parker Brown, W. Wright Harrison, and William L. Zimmer, III.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESExecutive CommitteeFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMedical CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the standing committees for 1972-1973. The committee assignments are as follows: Executive CommitteeMr. Joseph H. McConnell, ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Finance CommitteeMr. William S. Potter, ChairmanMr. W. Wright HarrisonMr. William L. Zimmer, III Student Affairs and Athletics CommitteeMr. W. Wright Harrison, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr.Mr. Donald E. SantarelliMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, IIIMr. William L. Zimmer, III Medical CommitteeDr. J. Hartwell Harrison, ChairmanMr. Robert P. BufordMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. Edwin K. MatternDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Senator Hugh Scott Buildings and Grounds CommitteeMr. Lawrence Lewis, Jr., ChairmanMr. C. Waller BarrettMr. Warren B. French, Jr.Mr. William E. LeggettMr. Edwin K. MatternMr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III Educational Policy CommitteeMr. C. Waller Barrett, ChairmanMrs. E. Parker BrownDr. J. Hartwell HarrisonMr. William E. LeggettDr. Brownie E. Polly, Jr.Mr. William S. PotterMr. Donald E. SantarelliSenator Hugh Scott

The Rector, Mr. Joseph H. McConnell, is an ex officio member of all committees.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Paul E. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Thomas L. Barton as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. James I. Bernhardt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William C. Berry as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Rudolf H. Bieri as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Associate Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Susan E. Bloomberg as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Allan Blunden as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Charles R. Borchardt as Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective February 1, 1972.Mr. Raymond K. Bradt as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gary Brooker as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for three years, effective May 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Lieutenant, j.g., Lloyd H. Carll, III, as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Andrew J. Chmiel as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. James W. Craig as Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. James E. Culver, Jr., as Instructor in Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Wieslaw Czyz as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese as Lecturer, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. James E. Deese as Commonwealth Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $Mr. Myles S. Delano as The Virginia Bankers Association Professor of Bank Management, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard M. DeMott as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Frederick M. Denny as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Gerald W. DeWitt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and of Family and Community Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Mario di Valmarana as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Antonio T. Donato as Assistant Professor of Surgery, part-time, for two years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $Mr. James C. Dunstan as Lecturer in Business Administration, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Peyton A. Eggleston as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Charles P. Emerson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Wilbur B. England as Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Miss Kay Engler as Assistant Professor of Spanish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. James P. Esposito as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Zoe A. Evans as Instructor in Clinical Pathology, for the period June 15, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John P. Fullilove, III, as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Harry L. Garnham as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Larry Gibson as Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. William C. Gifford, Jr., as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Mr. Victor Goldsmith as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Mr. Robert K. Greenleaf as Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Business Administration, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a salary of $.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Instructor in Education, for one year, effective August 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Peter Haidu as Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ronald B. Hanawalt as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. M. Roy Harris as Associate Professor of Romance Linguistics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Julian N. Hartt as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Lennart Heimer as Professor of Neuroanatomy, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John J. Hinrichsen as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. David C. Hitch as Instructor in Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James E. Holloway, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Everett B. Howerton as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Captain John T. Hoza as Assistant Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective June 1972.Mr. Robert G. Irving as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for the period February 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974, at a session salary of $.Mr. John A. James as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, at a session salary of $.Mr. Carl R. Johnson as Visiting Professor of Chemistry, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Richard N. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Neurology and of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $for administrative duties, or a total salary of $Mrs. JoAnn M. Lazarus as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Lisa Leonard as Instructor in Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Jules I. Levine as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for the period June 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973, at an annual salary of $.Dr. David C. Lowance as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Maurice P. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Mr. Allen W. Lyndrup as Instructor in Drama, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Terry Edward MacDougall as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Richard D. Marks as Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiation Therapy), for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Theodore J. Marr as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Paul G. Martick as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Mr. Robert S. Marvin, II, as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Curtis W. McIntyre as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Thomas C. Mick as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Evelyn E. Miles as Instructor in Speech, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph C. Miller as Assistant Professor of History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. William E. Miller as Lecturer in Law, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Dr. William R. Miller as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for three years, effective May 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Lieutenant Commander Archie E. Millis, Jr., as Associate Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. James C. Morris, III, as Clinical Instructor in Plastic Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Bruce J. Neilson as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Mrs. Kathryn M. Olschner as Assistant Professor, Medical Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Brian Parshall as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Sidney A. Pearson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Carla L. Peterson as Acting Assistant Professor of English and of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard S. Peterson as Lecturer in English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Frank H. Phillips, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Rene P. Pintard as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Miss Annelle Powell as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Arnold Rampersad as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. George Roland as Instructor in Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. J. David Sapir as Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Leonard G. Sbrocchi as Assistant Professor of Italian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Ernest A. Scatton as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Edith R. Schwartz as Assistant Professor of Orthopedics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Thomas J. Schulz as Clinical Instructor in Orthopedics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert E. Scott as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. William G. Shade as Visiting Associate Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Hugh A. Shaffer as Instructor in Radiology, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Thomas A. Shea as Instructor in Pediatrics, (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Captain Edward Simpson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Military Science, for two years, effective August 1972.Dr. F. Karl Smith as Instructor in Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Lenore Street as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard C. Swartz as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Dr. Charles J. Tegtmeyer as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective August 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Theo van Groll as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Ernesto Vasquez as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lawrence W. Waggoner as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Diane Wakoski as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, at a salary of $.Dr. James E. Washington, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Edgar N. Weaver as Clinical Associate Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Christopher S. Welch as Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three academic years, effective June 1, 1972.Dr. Richard P. Wenzel as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $Captain Maurice G. White as Professor of Naval Science, for two years, effective June 1972.

ELECTION OF MR. LAURENCE W. FREDRICK AS JOHN DOWNMAN HAMILTON PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Laurence W. Fredrick be and he is hereby elected John Downman Hamilton Professor of Astronomy, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. SHAO C. LENG AS HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Shao C. Leng be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. ROUHOLLAH K. RAMAZANI AS EDWARD R. STETTINIUS PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani be and he is hereby elected Edward R. Stettinius Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. ALMAND R. COLEMAN AS CHARLES C. ABBOTT PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Almand R. Coleman be and he is hereby elected Charles C. Abbott Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

ELECTION OF MR. C. STEWART SHEPPARD AS TIPTON R. SNAVELY PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard be and he is hereby elected Tipton R. Snavely Professor of Business Administration, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.

CHANGE IN THE ELECTION OF MRS. WILLIE LEE ROSE AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mrs. Willie Lee Rose, as approved by the Board on April 7, 1972, be changed to read as follows:RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mrs. Willie Lee Rose be and she is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Dr. Patricia M. Andrews as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. James S. Beaver as Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, one-half time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Terrence A. Boring as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Mary Jane Brewer as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective November 1, 1972.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Michael P. Dooley as Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. S. Herbert Frankel as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Donald E. Geis as Assistant Professor of City Planning, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Barbara A. Graham as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John D. Hall as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Miss JoAnn Hayes as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective November 1, 1972.Mr. Michael A. Hoffman as Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Sharon L. Hostler as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert J. Huskey as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Edwin B. Joseph as Associate Professor of Marine Science, for one academic year, effective June 1, 1972.Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Anna B. Kinney as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James H. Maddox as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Raymond J. Nelson as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1972.Miss Janis L. Peacock as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Harry W. Porter, Jr., as Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. John F. Reynolds as Assistant Professor of German, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Franz Schubert as Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Ekkehard Sinn as Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Alan H. Strahler as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Arlin B. Thro as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Alan B. Williamson as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1972.

CANCELLATION OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. ALAN B. LETTOFSKY
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Alan B. Lettofsky as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, as approved by the Board on December 11, 1971, be and it is hereby cancelled.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Gary K. Ackers, Associate Professor, to Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Houston A. Baker, Associate Professor to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1973.Mr. Charles W. Beegle, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Lester F. Belter, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Miss Linda R. Berner, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. S. Michael Bernhard, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Frederic A. Berry, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Phillip J. Best, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Jean M. Bonin, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Jeannette A. Brown, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles S. Chen, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. William E. Craddock, Associate Professor, to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. John S. Davis, IV, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Frederick A. Diehl, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Sven O. E. Ebbesson, Associate Professor of Neurosurgery and of Anatomy, to Professor of Neurosurgery, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Jean C. Ervin, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Jack C. Fisher, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Plastic Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Michael Fowler, Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Joseph E. Gibson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Daniel L. Gothie, Instructor and Librarian to Assistant Professor and Librarian, Graduate School of Business Administration, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Peter Hackett, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. John F. Hahn, Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Wesley L. Harris, Sr., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Martin J. Havran, Associate Professor to Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Terring W. Heironimus, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edmond H. Henderson, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. John S. Horsley, III, Associate Professor, to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Alan B. Howard, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. James G. Hunter, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William A. Jesser, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Materials Science, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. David C. Jordan, Associate Professor to Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Gordon E. Keller, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. James L. Kelly, Associate Professor, to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, and $for administrative duties, or a total salary of $.Mr. Thomas L. Kriete, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Allan M. Lefer, Associate Professor, to Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Joan Leiby, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Gerald L. Mandell, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Susan O. Marcell, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Kenneth L. Marcellus, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Marine Science, for three years, effective June 1, 1972.Mr. Richard B. Martin, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Jerry L. Mashaw, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Kevin M. McCrimmon, Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. William S. McKee, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Richard A. Merrill, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. H. C. Erik Midelfort, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Willys M. Monroe, Clinical Assistant Professor, to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Jeffrey B. Morton, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Edith K. Mosher, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Richard A. Murphy, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William I. Neikirk, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. William M. O'Brien, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Edwina H. Pancake, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Loren D. Pitt, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Michael F. Plunkett, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Ganas K. Rakes, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. William G. Ray, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mrs. Louise C. Richards, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of.Mrs. Nancy B. Richards, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John T. Roberts, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Hindi, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Rafael Rubio, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Leslie E. Rudolf, Associate Professor, to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John A. Ryland, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Edmund F. SantaVicca, Junior Instructor, to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William C. Saslaw, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Jean M. Scanlan, Instructor, to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William G. Shenkir, Associate Professor, to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Philip T. Shiner, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Family and Community Medicine and of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective August 1, 1972.Mr. Jerry G. Short, Associate Professor, to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Charles Sisson, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Larry Smith, Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Lewis E. Snyder, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Ann L. Stauffenberg, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972 at an annual salary of $.Mr. Lauren C. Stayton, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. John L. Sullivan, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Speech and Drama, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Linda A. Sundholm, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Kanubhai D. Suthar, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Miss Mary L. Thomas, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Stephen T. Thornton, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. Curtis J. Tompkins, Assistant Professor, to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. William N. Toomy, Lecturer, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Albert R. Turnbull, Associate Professor, to Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work or a total salary of $.Dr. Ulysses G. Turner, III, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Don E. Uhl, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $Mr. Carlos Villar-Palasi, Associate Professor, to Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Vamik Volkan, Associate Professor, to Professor of Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. James W. Waller, Junior Instructor to Instructor, Alderman Library, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Stephen L. Wangensteen, Associate Professor, to Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Dr. Munsey S. Wheby, Associate Professor, to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Robert S. Wood, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.Dr. Arthur W. Wyker, Jr., Associate Professor, to Professor of Urology, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. Klaus O. H. Ziock, Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Miss Ruth E. Brong, Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period July 14, 1972, through August 31, 1972, without pay, to take care of personal matters.Mr. Charles S. Chen, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Program Manager, European and American Section, Office of International Programs, under the National Science Foundation's Personnel Mobility Program.Mr. Inis L. Claude, Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1973, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Wales.Mr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to continue to serve as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973, without pay, to accept an award from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.Mr. Robert W. Langbaum, James Branch Cabell Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept an award from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. Graham C. Lilly, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, with one-half pay, to engage in a study of the work of the Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit.Mr. Donald L. McGrady, Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a Guggenheim Fellowship.Dr. George R. Minor, Professor of Surgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1972, without pay, to participate in the teaching and activities of the University of Tunisia School of Medicine and Hospital Charles Nicoll.Mr. Loren D. Pitt, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to spend the fall semester at the University of Southern California.Mr. John Ruvalds, Associate Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a position as Visiting Associate Professor, James Franck Institute, University of Chicago.Mr. J. David Sapir, Associate Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to serve as Visiting Professor at the University of Paris-Nanterre.Mr. Paul S. Shoup, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to accept a Ford Foundation Faculty Research Fellowship in Political Science.Mr. Ekkehard Sinn, Associate Professor of Chemistry, for the period September 1, 1972, through October 31, 1972, without pay, to fulfill obligations at the University of New South Wales, New Zealand.Mr. Lawrence Smith, Associate Professor of Mathematics, for the period September 1, 1972, through January 31, 1974, without pay, to serve at Yale University and Aarhus University, Denmark.Mr. Peter H. Taylor, Commonwealth Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1972, without pay, to carry out research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Suresh K. Agarwal, from Visiting Associate Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), to Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Richard C. Brown, from Assistant Professor of Medicine and Student Health Physician, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. John W. Ellwood, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period May 1, 1972, through June 30, 1972.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, from Professor of International Business, to Professor of International Business Economics, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. Lawrence E. Hund, from Instructor in Pediatrics (Dentistry), to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Regina C. McCormack, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Betty N. Norris, from Acting Associate Professor of Nursing, to Associate Professor of Nursing, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. H. Owen Porter, from Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period May 1, 1972, through June 30, 1974.Dr. James C. Sams, from Clinical Assistant Professor, part-time, of Psychiatry and Physician, Department of Student Health, to Assistant Professor, full time, of Psychiatry and Physician, Department of Student Health, for two years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Alton L. Taylor, from Assistant Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, to Associate Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Sandra R. Yarbrough, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration and Dean, Graduate School of Business Administration, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. Abbott has been a member of the faculty since 1954.Mr. Chalmers L. Gemmill, Professor of Pharmacology, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. Gemmill has been a member of the faculty since 1945.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. Hale has been a member of the faculty since 1929.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., Commonwealth Professor of Education, effective August 31, 1972. Mr. Lankford has been a member of the faculty since 1937.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. Mayo has been a member of the faculty since 1940.Mr. Frederick T. Morse, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. Morse has been a member of the faculty since 1933.Mr. William B. O'Neal, Professor of Architectural History, effective June 30, 1972. Mr. O'Neal has been a member of the faculty since 1946.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Charles C. Abbott, Professor of Business Administration and Dean, Graduate School of Business Administration.Mr. Chalmers L. Gemmill, Professor of Pharmacology.Mr. Oron J. Hale, William W. Corcoran Professor of History.Mr. Francis G. Lankford, Jr., Commonwealth Professor of Education.Mr. Bernard Mayo, Professor of History.Mr. Frederick T. Morse, Professor of Mechanical Engineering.Mr. William B. O'Neal, Professor of Architectural History.Mr. Lorin A. Thompson, Professor of Business Administration.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Alfred A. Arth, Assistant Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at another institution.Mr. Morris L. Brehmer, Associate Professor of Marine Science, effective May 31, 1972, to accept another position.Mr. John J. Callahan, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position with the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.Mr. Benjamin A. DeGraff, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective June 30, 1972, to accept the position as Departmental Chairman at Madison College.Dr. Douglas W. Eastwood, Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 31, 1972, to accept the position of Associate Professor of Medical Education and Professor of Anesthesiology, at Case Western Reserve University.Mr. David H. Flaherty, Assistant Professor of History, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at the University of Western Ontario.Mr. Paul A. Gaeng, Associate Professor of French, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at the University of CincinnatiMiss Mary M. Lohr, Professor of Nursing, and Dean, School of Nursing, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at the University of Illinois College of Nursing.Mr. John C. Munday, Assistant Professor of Marine Science, effective August 31, 1972, to accept another position.Mr. Kenneth E. Schuit, Assistant Professor of Anatomy, effective August 31, 1972, to attend Medical School.Mr. Heinz P. Zoldester, Assistant Professor of German, effective June 30, 1972, to accept a position at Northern Illinois University.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. James W. Barco as Counsellor to the President for Special Development, for eighteen months, effective May 1, 1972.Mr. J. Taylor Beard as Academic Space Administrator, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Thomas W. Best as Acting Chairman, Department of German Literature, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Dr. James W. Craig as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for five years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. James E. Deese as Chairman, Department of Psychology, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Thomas E. Ewert as Director, Blandy Experimental Farm, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh as Acting Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Lawrence A. Groves as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective August 1, 1972.Dr. James T. Hamlin, III, as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Robert J. Harris as Acting Chairman, Department of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective February 1, 1973.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant to the President, for one year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. Matthias E. Kayhoe as Assistant Dean, School of Architecture, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. David Little as Acting Chairman, Department of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. George B. Matthews as Assistant to the Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Betty N. Norris as Assistant Dean, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. John E. Scott, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Physics, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Miss Phyllis J. Verhonick as Acting Dean, School of Nursing, effective July 1, 1972, until a new Dean is appointed.

REAPPOINTMENTS
--------------

The following reappointments were announced: Mr. Robert F. Bryan as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Gordon C. Burris as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Michael S. Caldwell as Associate Dean, School of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Miss Susan P. Campbell as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Weldon Cooper as Director, Institute of Government, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. William A. Elwood as Assistant to the President for Special Programs, for three years, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Guy Estes as Director, Seward Forest, until property is sold or for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Alfred P. Fernbach as Associate Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mr. William J. Hargis, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Marine Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Dr. Marion K. Humphries, Jr., as Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. James E. Kinard as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, APRIL 7, 1972
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-appointment of Mr. Avery Catlin as Associate Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, as approved by the Board on April 7, 1972, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Avery Catlin as Associate Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period April 15, 1972, through June 30, 1975.

APPROVAL OF THE 1972-1973 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1972-73 University Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller, and as approved by the Finance Committee, be and it is hereby approved.

APPROVAL OF THE 1972-1973 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the proposed 1972-73 University Hospital Budget, as recommended by the President and the Comptroller and as approved by the Finance Committee and the Medical Committee be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT ON ADMISSIONS
--------------------

The President summarized a report of the Dean of Admissions for September 1972. The report indicated that there was an increase of 1,268 applications over the previous year. Among 82 state universities and land grant colleges, the University received the second largest number of applications for each available place in the first year class. The entering class in the College, Engineering, and Architecture will be composed of 62 percent men and 38 percent women. The College class will have a male-female ratio of 55 to 45 percent. The entering class will consist of 67 percent Virginians. The entering class will be strong academically. Over the past five years matriculants to the College of Arts and Sciences ranked in the top quintile of their high school classes as follows: 56 percent to 62 percent to 65 percent to 74 percent to 81 percent in 1972. Over the past three years the combined mean scholastic aptitude test score has increased by 17 points. The President expressed satisfaction with the level of preparation of the entering class.

Mr. Barrett pointed out that because of court actions, the University may lose the out-of-State category of student. If this should develop, the income of the University might be reduced by 3.8 million dollars.

Mr. Potter expressed the view that legislators should be made aware of the large portions of the endowment which comes from out-of-State alumni.

Mr. Zimmer expressed the view that the enrollment projections to 1980 are the source of considerable concern in the General Assembly. He urged that this be given careful study and that the amount of University costs covered by student tuition and fee charges needs careful analysis.

The report was received by the Board.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on the current status of the University's construction program. In connection with the report, he advised that most projects are about on schedule.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE 1966 BOARD MANUAL
-------------------------------------------

Certain amendments to the 1966 Board Manual were proposed. As required by Sections 5.8 and 2.34 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966 the Executive Committee unanimously approved the proposed amendments at its meeting on April 7, 1972, and notice of the proposed amendments were included in the regular notice of the meeting sent to each member of the Board.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, the necessary notice having been given and the views of the Executive Committee having been obtained, the following amendments to the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1966 be and they are hereby approved:

The changes affecting George Mason College are to be effective March 1, 1972, and those affecting Mary Washington College are to become effective July 1, 1972.

On page 10, delete from Section 2.4, "Mary Washington, George Mason and" so that it will read as follows:

(24) the election, with the concurrence of the President, the chief local administrative officer of Clinch Valley College, this officer having the title of Chancellor, and being directly responsible to the President.

On page 12, Section 3.2 delete from the list of Standing Committees Mary Washington College Committee so the list reads as follows: The Finance Committee, Buildings and Grounds Committee, Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, Educational Policy Committee, and Medical Committee.

On page 15, delete Section 3.26, The Mary Washington College Committee.

On page 20, Section 4.22 Subsection 4 change Subsection 4 to read:

he shall have the power to establish and modify as he deems necessary the internal administrative structure of the University and shall appoint, or provide for the appointment of, all administrative officers except for the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, making a report of his actions thereon to the Board at the next regular meeting.

AAU SALARY SCALE
----------------

The President reported that the University of Virginia is in the top ten in total compensation of full professors, in the top six in total compensation of associate professors, and in the top sixteen in total compensation of assistant professors.

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION SUPPORT
--------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the University hereby makes a special contribution of $5,000 to the Alumni Association, from funds derived from the Atlantic Coast Conference and from radio broadcasts of University athletic events, this special contribution to aid the Alumni Association in covering the cost of printing and distributing Alumni News, and to assist the Association with general printing and with repairs to Alumni Hall. This special contribution for the current fiscal year only is in addition to the regular annual contribution not to exceed $15,000 from the same sources of funds as authorized by the Board on December 8, 1962.

INCREASE IN RATES FOR ROOMS IN THE HOSPITAL AND CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President advised that an increase of $3.00 in the daily rates for rooms in the Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center is needed. He advised further that once approved by the Board the proposals to increase the rates must go to the Wage/Price Stabilization Board for final approval.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that subject to approval by the Wage/Price Stabilization Board daily rates for rooms in the Hospital and the Children's Rehabilitation Center be and they are increased by $3.00, effective July 1, 1972.

REPORT ON THE ESTABLISHING OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY UNDER THE CITY OF CHARLOTTESVILLE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President reported that as a result of changes in procedure, the law enforcement authority of the City operates to protect the University. The President reported that he has designated the Dean of Students, Mr. Robert Canevari, to be responsible for liaison between the City Police and the University.

Mr. Leggett pointed out that the University received unfavorable publicity as a result of public misunderstanding of the change in law enforcement authority.

Mr. Crawford responded that the Charlottesville Newspaper, The Daily Progress, will assist the University to clarify the matter.

Mr. Vincent Shea advised the Board that the security operations of the University will be strengthened before the next school year opens. He advised that seven additional police officers will be on duty before the next school year begins.

The Rector stated that it is important to have effective security procedures. He expressed satisfaction with the progress which Vice-President Shea and President Shannon have made in strengthening the Department of Security.

There followed a discussion on drug abuse at the University. Vice-President Williams advised that in the 1970-71 session a peak in drug usage at the University was reached. He advised that it is his impression that there are fewer problems associated with drugs at the University now than there were two years ago.

Vice-President Crispell urged the Board members to read the Shaffer Report. He also cautioned against dealing with all drugs in the same way. He pointed out the importance of keeping heroin in a separate category.

REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY
--------------------------------------

Mr. David Shannon briefly summarized the Report of the Committee on the Future of the University. He pointed out that in Tables 21 a and 21 b there are statistical errors. Corrections to the report will be sent to Board members.

Mr. Wilkinson requested that the Board discuss the report at a future time and that sufficient time be set aside for the discussion. The Rector agreed to this schedule.

Mr. Potter suggested that an outside firm might be able to examine the report and to validate the proposals set forth in the report.

Mr. Zimmer announced that he felt strongly that outside consultation would make the report more authentic and one that could be readily endorsed by members of the General Assembly.

The Rector urged validation of the report by use of competent outside consultants.

The President pointed out that we have an outstanding committee that has studied the problems thoroughly and he felt that these workers understand the University's problems better than outside consultants would.

The Rector advised that action on this question be deferred for the present. The report was accepted by the Board.

INCREASE IN FEES IN THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------

Current

Proposed

Undergraduate Courses (per semester hour)

$20.00

$20.00

Graduate Courses (per semester hour)

$23.00

$25.00

Late Registration Fee

$ 5.00

$ 5.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

\--

$10.00

Registration Fee, Northern Virginia Regional Office

$ 5.00

$ 5.00

Admission Fee, Northern Virginia Regional Office and Ft. Belvoir Field Office

$10.00

\--

Change of Status Fee

$ 5.00

$ 5.00

Transcript Fee

$ 1.00

$ 1.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following schedule of fees for the School of Continuing Education be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1972: CurrentProposedUndergraduate Courses (per semester hour)$20.00$20.00Graduate Courses (per semester hour)$23.00$25.00Late Registration Fee$ 5.00$ 5.00Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs--$10.00Registration Fee, Northern Virginia Regional Office$ 5.00$ 5.00Admission Fee, Northern Virginia Regional Office and Ft. Belvoir Field Office$10.00--Change of Status Fee$ 5.00$ 5.00Transcript Fee$ 1.00$ 1.00

For certain courses, a reference manual fee of $1.00 - $5.00 may be required. Additional fees may be charged for laboratory and problem courses to cover special sessions, materials, and laboratory supplies.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$177,729.87

Free service to Counties and Cities

124,195.30

\------------

Total

$301,925.17

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts Schedules 2149, 2150, 2153, 2156 and 2157, aggregating $301,925.17, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$177,729.87Free service to Counties and Cities124,195.30------------Total$301,925.17

REPORT TO THE FULL BOARD ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO AUTHORIZING THE PRESIDENT TO APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH HUD FOR A GRANT FOR THE RESTORATION OF THE ROTUNDA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee on April 25, 1972, acting on behalf of the Board of Visitors, authorized President Shannon to execute a contract with the Department of Housing and Urban Development and to accept a grant, the proceeds of which are to be used for the restoration of the Rotunda. The report was approved.

REPORT ON THE RESTORATION OF THE ROTUNDA
----------------------------------------

The President reported that the negotiations with the Department of Housing and Urban Development have been completed and that the planning for the restoration is continuing.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has repeatedly over the past seventeen years given encouragement and support to research into the architectural history of the University's central original building, the Rotunda, looking toward the completion of the restoration work begun in 1939 under the late Stanislaw Makielski and the late Fiske Kimball; andWHEREAS, since 1966 the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board, the President of the University, and a Faculty Building Committee, acting under the authority of the Board, have completed, with professional assistance from the architectural firm of Ballou and Justice, the preliminary plans for the interior restoration of the Rotunda, providing for replacement of the rooms removed in 1896-98, so that the interior structure and proportions will be as they were designed and built by Thomas Jefferson, and as they existed from his death until the fire of 1895; andWHEREAS at the meeting of April 7, 1972, the Board approved the architectural plans prepared by Messrs. Ballou and Justice, conditioned only upon the necessary procurement of funds for execution of the work, and at the same meeting authorized the President to make application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for a grant of one half of the total estimated cost of $2,176,500 needed to complete the restoration, so that with matching funds from non-Federal sources, the Rotunda, Thomas Jefferson's last and greatest architectural masterpiece, could be restored to its original design and functions by the nation's anniversary year, 1976, the primary objective recommended for that year by the University's Bicentennial Committee; andWHEREAS, on April 28, 1972, at Monticello, the Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Community Development signed and delivered to the President of the University a contract granting the sum of $1,088,250 which, matched by a similar sum from private sources available to the University, will make possible the long-planned restoration;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, in the conviction that this generous grant, the largest ever made by the Department for historic restoration, is also a wise and far-seeing action that will reflect the highest credit hereafter on all concerned in it, extends its gratitude on behalf of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the University of Virginia to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO THE LANGHORNE TRUST
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia has repeatedly over the past seventeen years given encouragement and support to research into the architectural history of the University's central original building, the Rotunda, looking toward the completion of the restoration work begun in 1939 under the late Stanislaw Makielski and the late Fiske Kimball; andWHEREAS, since 1966 the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board, the President of the University, and a Faculty Building Committee, acting under the authority of the Board, have completed, with professional assistance from the architectural firm of Ballou and Justice, the preliminary plans for the interior restoration of the Rotunda, providing for replacement of the rooms removed in 1896-98, so that the interior structure and proportions will be as they were designed and built by Thomas Jefferson, and as they existed from his death until the fire of 1895; andWHEREAS, at the meeting of April 7, 1972, the Board approved the architectural plans prepared by Messrs. Ballou and Justice, conditioned only upon the necessary procurement of funds for execution of the work, and at the same meeting authorized the President to make application to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for a grant of one half of the total estimated cost of $2,176,500 needed to complete the restoration so that with matching funds from non-Federal sources, the Rotunda, Thomas Jefferson's last and greatest architectural masterpiece, could be restored to its original design and functions by the nation's anniversary year, 1976, the primary objective recommended for that year by the University's Bicentennial Committee; andWHEREAS, a generous guarantee from the Trustees of the Cary D. Langhorne Trust to allocate for the restoration of the Rotunda the sum of $460,000, which, with additional income earmarked for the same purpose over the next seven years for a total ultimate commitment of $1,017,903, has resulted in a matching grant of $1,088,250 from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the largest grant ever made by the Department for historic restoration, thus making it possible for the University to proceed with this long-planned restoration of design and function to its focal building;NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia extends to the Trustees of the Cary D. Langhorne Trust the gratitude of the University for their generosity and good offices;RESOLVED FURTHER that the Secretary of the Board deliver copies of this resolution to Mr. Alfred H. Taylor, Chairman of the Trustees, and to Mr. Thomas H. Reynolds, the former Chairman.

ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FEE IN THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established for students in the School of Commerce, a special fee of $5.00 per session to provide the Commerce School Council with funds to be used on behalf of students in the School.

CHANGE IN UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS CONCERNING REGISTRATION AND PAYMENT OF CHARGES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following regulation be and it is hereby approved, effective September 1, 1973:Delayed Registration - Any student who fails to present himself at the time and place specified for registration, or who fails to make payment of all tuition and fees to the University Treasurer by the final date for payment thereof as specified, will not be permitted to register in the current semester unless he can explain his delay to the satisfaction of the Dean of his School. When permitted to register, the student will be charged a fee of $10.00 to cover cost of late registrations, no part of which may be waived.

HUD - CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE LOAN GRANT
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia a public educational institution, organized and existing under any by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (herein called the "Grantee"), has heretofore submitted an application to the United States of America, Department of Housing and Urban Development (herein called the "Government"), for a Grant under Title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, as amended, for the purposes designated in the said application; andWHEREAS, the Government has approved the said application subject to certain conditions and has submitted to the Grantee a certain Grant Agreement dated as of June 2, 1972, (herein called the "Grant Agreement"), for approval and execution by the Grantee, which said Grant Agreement is satisfactory,NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Board of Visitors of the Grantee that the said Grant Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby approved. The Comptroller is hereby authorized and directed to execute the said Grant Agreement in the name and on behalf of the Grantee, in as many counterparts as may be necessary, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to affix or impress the official seal of the Grantee thereon and to attest the same. The proper officer is directed to forward the said executed counterparts of the said Grant Agreement to the Government, together with such other documents evidencing the approval and authorization to execute the same as may be required by the Government.

INCREASE IN THE NON-REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the non-refundable deposit for students entering the undergraduate schools be and it is hereby increased to $250.00, effective March 1, 1973.

NAMING OF THE NEW THEATER TO BE BUILT IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE DRAMA BUILDING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the new theater presently under construction be named the Sara Gilder Culbreth Memorial Theater.

RESOLUTIONS NAMING THE CULBRETH ROAD AND CARR'S HILL ROAD
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolutions were adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the road leading from the south approach of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway overpass on Rugby Road to University Avenue below Carr's Hill be and it is hereby changed from Carr's Hill Road to Culbreth Road.RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the road leading from the Rugby Road - University Avenue intersection to the President's House and to the Campbell Hall parking area be and it is hereby named Carr's Hill Road.

PROPOSED ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE FOR CLINICAL FACULTY MEMBERS AND PATHOLOGIST STAFF AT THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINEProposed Annual Salary Schedule for Clinical Faculty Members and Pathologist Staff at the University of Virginia School of Medicine (12 months)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Present Scales

Proposed Scales

(Effective July 1, 1971)

(Effective July 1, 1972)

(Effective July 1, 1973)

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation\* \*In addition, non-State funds are used to provide annuities in the amount of 20% of salary up to a maximum of $23,000 (i.e., $4,600).

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation\*

State Maximum

Maximum Compensation

Department Chairman

$22,500

$45,000

$22,500

$47,000

$22,500

$50,000

Professor

20,000

43,000

20,000

45,000

20,000

48,000

Associate Professor

17,500

40,000

17,500

42,000

17,500

45,000

Assistant Professor

15,500

35,000

15,500

38,000

15,500

40,000

Instructor

13,500

31,000

13,500

32,000

13,500

33,000

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following annual salary schedule for clinical faculty members and pathologist staff at the University of Virginia School of Medicine be and it is hereby approved:

Present ScalesProposed Scales(Effective July 1, 1971)(Effective July 1, 1972)(Effective July 1, 1973)State MaximumMaximum Compensation\* \*In addition, non-State funds are used to provide annuities in the amount of 20% of salary up to a maximum of $23,000 (i.e., $4,600). State MaximumMaximum Compensation\*State MaximumMaximum CompensationDepartment Chairman$22,500$45,000$22,500$47,000$22,500$50,000Professor20,00043,00020,00045,00020,00048,000Associate Professor17,50040,00017,50042,00017,50045,000Assistant Professor15,50035,00015,50038,00015,50040,000Instructor13,50031,00013,50032,00013,50033,000

In addition, non-State funds are used to provide annuities in the amount of 20% of salary up to a maximum of $23,000 (i.e., $4,600).

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ALLAN TALBOTT GWATHMEY FELLOWSHIPS
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established a Fellowship to be known as the Allan Talbott Gwathmey Fellowship. The Fellowship is to be awarded in accordance with the standing University policies governing such awards.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A list of gifts and grants was distributed and the report was accepted by the Board of Visitors.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE RECTOR OF THE RESIGNATION OF MR. LEIGH B. MIDDLEDITCH, JR. AS LEGAL ADVISER
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that Mr. Middleditch has offered his resignation as legal adviser. The Rector proposed that the date of the resignation be left open for the present. The proposal was approved.

GRANT FOR THE HEALTH SCIENCES LIBRARY AND INFORMATION CENTER BUILDING
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The President requested that consent be given by resolution authorizing the filing of a Federal grant application for the Health Sciences Library and Information Center Building. The 1972 General Assembly of Virginia has appropriated an additional $711,500 and has authorized the University to seek Federal matching funds of $1,653,500 - estimated to be one-half of the cost of the facility. In accordance with the Federal requirements of an authorizing resolution of the Board of Visitors, the following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare for a grant to be used for the construction of the Health Sciences Library and Information Center Building.

RESOLUTION REGARDING THE WIDENING OF ROUTE 50 NEAR BLANDY FARM
--------------------------------------------------------------

The President referred to a map supplied by the highway department. A copy of this map is attached to the minutes as attachment 1.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Virginia Department of Highways be advised that two of the proposed routes for a new lane to widen Route 50 near the Blandy Experimental Farm, those numbered one and three are acceptable to the University, while proposed route number two is not acceptable since it would destroy a valuable part of the arboretum at the facility.

RESOLUTION REGARDING KENWOOD
----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that we hereby accept the bequest of the property known as "Kenwood" in Albemarle County, Virginia, pursuant to the terms set forth in part SECOND of the Will of Frances Nash Watson and the bequest of the "Roosevelt Papers" pursuant to the terms of part THIRD of such Will.

APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT FOR CONSORTIUM FOR CONTINUING HIGHER EDUCATION IN NORTHERN VIRGINIAThe Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that a Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia resulting from an agreement between George Mason University, Northern Virginia Community College, the University of Virginia and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University as described on pages 517, 518, 519, and 520 of this document be and it is hereby approved.

Introduction

The Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia is the result of an inter-institutional cooperative agreement between George Mason University, Northern Virginia Community College, the University of Virginia, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. The purpose of the Consortium shall be to provide coordinated high quality programs with maximum transferability of credit for those courses offered for credit in Northern Virginia by the four participating state-supported institutions. Those credit courses to be coordinated by the Consortium shall include all credit courses offered by the participating state-supported institutions which are: offered off-campus; offered on-campus primarily intended for adult, part-time, or continuing education students; or offered on-campus after 4:30 p.m.

This Consortium was developed as a response to Senate Joint Resolution No. 67 passed by the 1972 session of the General Assembly and in order to maximize the educational opportunities and provide needed programs and services for the citizens of Northern Virginia. Senate Joint Resolution No. 67 urges that institutions of higher education offering courses for continuing education in Northern Virginia "establish forthwith, subject to the approval of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, a consortium or cooperative center for continuing education with main offices at George Mason University. Said cooperative center, under the aegis of George Mason University, shall become operative July 1, 1972. . ."

Statement of Agreement

The state-supported institutions of higher education currently offering academic credit in Northern Virginia hereby agree to enter into an inter-institutional cooperative agreement to establish the Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia. This Consortium is created in response to Senate Joint Resolution No. 67, passed by the 1972 session of the General Assembly, and in order to maximize educational opportunities and provide needed programs and services for the citizens of Northern Virginia. The Consortium has the following goals and objectives:

1\. To provide maximum higher educational opportunities for the adult, part-time, or continuing education student of Northern Virginia.

2\. To encourage mutual acceptance and interchangeability of course credits between participating institutions.

3\. To facilitate the earning of degrees by adult, part-time, or continuing education students.

4\. To make efficient and appropriate use of the resources of all institutions offering courses within the region.

5\. To work cooperatively with the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia and other concerned state agencies to promote the systematic and coordinated growth of continuing higher education in Northern Virginia.

We agree that the Policies and Procedures for the Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia shall be established by a Board of Directors. This Board shall consist of:

A. The president or his designated representative of each of the participating state-supported institutions.

B. A representative of the staff of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia shall be an ex-officio member of the Board with voice but without vote.

The Chairman of the Board for the Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia shall be the President of George Mason University or his designated representative.

The Board of Directors shall establish all Policies and Procedures necessary for the effective operation for the Consortium for Continuing Higher Education in Northern Virginia. These Policies and Procedures must be consonant with legislative requirements and the Policies and Procedures established by the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia in the coordination of continuing education activities. The Board of Directors shall establish an advisory committee for continuing higher education with membership broadly representative of the Northern Virginia area.

RESOLUTION OF CONGRATULATIONS TO GEORGE MASON COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, George Mason College was founded in 1955 as a part of the University of Virginia; andWHEREAS under the guidance of the University of Virginia it has grown in enrollment and in academic quality to become a fully accredited institution offering both undergraduate and graduate degrees, and has been established as an independent University by the General Assembly of Virginia as of March 1, 1972;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that congratulations be expressed to George Mason University as it begins its independent life, and that as it leaves the control of the University of Virginia, it does so with the best wishes of the University for its continued success.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POLICY ON THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS IN CLINICAL RESEARCH
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the attached document entitled "University of Virginia Policy on the Protection of Human Subjects in Clinical Research" be and it is hereby approved to become effective June 5, 1972.

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLESSTATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES CONCERNING THE TREATMENT OF HUMAN SUBJECTS (DECLARATION OF HELSINKI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I. BASIC PRINCIPLES

1\. Clinical research must conform to the moral and scientific principles that justify medical research and should be based on laboratory and animal experiments or other scientifically established facts.

2\. Clinical research should be conducted only by scientifically qualified persons and under the supervision of a qualified medical man.

3\. Clinical research cannot legitimately be carried out unless the importance of the objective is in proportion to the inherent risk to the subject.

4\. Every clinical research project should be preceded by careful assessment of inherent risks in comparison to foreseeable benefits to the subject or to others.

5\. Special caution should be exercised by the doctor in performing clinical research in which the personality of the subject is liable to be altered by drugs or experimental procedure.

II. CLINICAL RESEARCH COMBINED WITH PROFESSIONAL CARE

1\. In the treatment of the sick person, the doctor must be free to use a new therapeutic measure if, in his judgment, it offers hope of saving life, reestablishing health, or alleviating suffering.

If at all possible, consistent with patient psychology, the doctor should obtain the patient's freely given consent after the patient has been given a full explanation. In case of legal incapacity, consent should also be procured from the legal guardian; in case of physical incapacity the permission of the legal guardian replaces that of the patient.

2\. The doctor can combine clinical research with professional care, the objective being the acquisition of new medical knowledge, only to the extent that clinical research is justified by its therapeutic value for the patient.

III. NON-THERAPEUTIC CLINICAL RESEARCH

1\. In the purely scientific application of clinical research carried out on a human being, it is the duty of the doctor to remain the protector of the life and health of that person on whom clinical research is being carried out.

2\. The nature, the purpose, and the risk of clinical research must be explained to the subject by the doctor.

3a. Clinical research on a human being cannot be undertaken without his free consent after he has been informed. The subject of clinical research should be in such a mental, physical, and legal state as to be able to exercise his power of choice.

3b. If the subject is legally incompetent, the consent of the legal guardian should be procured.

3c. Consent, as a rule, should be obtained in writing. However, the responsibility for clinical research always remains with the research worker; it never falls on the subject even after consent is obtained.

4a. The investigator must respect the right of each individual to safeguard his personal integrity, especially if the subject is in a dependent relationship to the investigator.

4b. At any time during the course of clinical research the subject or his guardian should be free to withdraw permission for research to be continued.

The investigator or the investigating team should discontinue the research if, in his or their judgment, it may, if continued, be harmful to the individual.

IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINESREVIEW COMMITTEES: COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The complexity of the University of Virginia requires that there be two review committees, each having a chairman. Both committees are responsible to the Vice President and Provost of the University.

All applications involving the use of human subjects in research which originate in the Medical Center will be reviewed by a committee hereinafter referred to as the Clinical Research Committee. The Clinical Research Committee at the University of Virginia is composed of ten members from varying backgrounds to assure complete and adequate review of research protocols. The members of the Clinical Research Committee are appointed by the Dean of the Medical School. The majority of the members will be engaged in private practice as well as carrying out research. See Appendix A, Current Membership and Qualifications of the Clinical Research Committee.

All applications involving the use of human subjects in research which originate elsewhere in the University and outside the Medical Center will be reviewed by the General University Committee, which is appointed by the Vice President and Provost. This committee is composed of at least six members with representation from the Schools of Education, Engineering and Law and the Departments of Psychology and Sociology and Anthropology. See Appendix B, Current Membership and Qualifications of the General University Committee.

The Chairman of each committee will serve as ex officio member of the other. The General University Committee member from the School of Law may serve as consultant to the Clinical Research Committee upon request. Conversely, applications to the General University Committee which have medical implications will be referred to the Clinical Research Committee for review and approval.

No individual shall participate in the review of the research activities in which he is involved, except to provide information to the committee. A committee member will absent himself during all discussion and voting on his own application. A majority of the committee members constitute the quorum, and a majority of the members present determines the final decision, which will be immediately reported to the Vice President and Provost with appropriate attachments.

It is the responsibility of the chairman of both committees to determine the need for and obtain the services of an expert advisor or consultant whenever this is necessary for the competent review of any application. The source and substance of such advice shall be reported to the Vice President and Provost along with the committee's decision. Similarly, the review committee has the responsibility to inform each investigator of any possible need for expert advice or consultation during the conduct of the investigation and to suggest where such may be obtained; this will form a part of the committee's decision report.

INITIAL AND CONTINUING REVIEW PROCEDURES BY THE COMMITTEES\* \*Unless specifically noted otherwise, procedures are equally applicable to both the Clinical Research Committee and the General University Committee. TIMING OF REVIEW
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unless specifically noted otherwise, procedures are equally applicable to both the Clinical Research Committee and the General University Committee.

The committee will meet as often as the need arises. Research described in applications and contract proposals shall, whenever possible, be given institutional review and approval prior to submittal to the sponsor.

There may be occasions when a second review by the committee will be required before the research project is initiated. Also, the committee shall require the project or program director to report for review any emergent problems or proposed procedural changes which might affect the status of the research with regard to the committee's review criteria. No such changes, except those necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards, will be allowed without prior approval of the committee.

Prior to submittal of a grant application to the committee, the principal investigator should discuss his application with his department head during its preparation, and submit it to the review committee before the application is sent to the sponsor. The proposal or application should be appropriately marked in the spaces provided or, when missing, the following statement should be typed on the lower or right-hand margin of the page bearing the name of the institutional official signing the application or proposal for the institution:

HUMAN SUBJECTS---REVIEWED AND APPROVED ON (date). (This date should be no more than 90 days prior to the submittal date and must not be more than 12 months prior to the proposed starting date).

If it is necessary to delay the review, the proposal should be appropriately marked in the spaces provided on the forms or, if missing, the following statement should be typed in the lower or right-hand margin of the page bearing the name of the institutional official authorized to sign or execute applications or proposals for the institution:

HUMAN SUBJECTS---REVIEW PENDING ON (date). (This date should be at least one month earlier than proposed starting date of the project to avoid possible conflict with the award date).

Pending reviews will be completed as much in advance of the stated pending review date as is practicable. If the final action is disapproval, or is approval contingent on substantive changes in the proposal, the Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will be asked to so notify the operating agency and, where appropriate, will formally withdraw the application from further consideration by that agency.

ADEQUATE PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF SUBJECTS
---------------------------------------------------------

The committee will carefully examine the research plan from each investigator to arrive at an independent determination of the possible hazards involved. In particular, the committee will be alert to the possibility that the principal investigator may unintentionally introduce unnecessary or unacceptable hazards or fail to provide adequate safeguards. The committee will consider the research plan as a whole in order to determine that the normally minor and acceptable risks are not aggravated by the way it is designed. The committee must be assured by the investigators that proper precautions will be taken to deal with emergencies that may develop even in the course of routine procedures.

OBTAINING INFORMED CONSENT
--------------------------

The committee will assist in the development of a proper investigation consent form commensurate with the task. The guidelines for the wording of such forms, for the methods by which patients or subjects are to be informed in a valid manner and for the limitations and exceptions to the rule that all subjects or their guardians must be informed and be given written consent are derived from those issued on August 24, 1966, by FDA commissioner J. P. Goddard (Title 21, Part 130.37, as published in the Federal Register of August 30, 1966). The basic guideline has been expanded, however, to include not only the use of new drugs but all other investigative procedures as well.

Consent will be obtained whenever possible from the subject himself. Whenever the subject is not legally or physically capable of giving informed consent because of age, medical incapacity or inability to communicate, or when the attending professional investigator believes that the giving of full information would be contrary to the best interest of the subject, a review committee may consider the validity of consent of the next of kin, legal guardians or by other responsible third parties who represent the subject's interest. The committee will determine if the consent, whether secured in writing or orally or implicit in the voluntary participation in a well advertised activity, is adequate in the light of risks to the subject, and the circumstances of the research. The committee will also determine if the information to be given to the subject or responsible third parties, orally or in writing, is a fair explanation of the procedure, the possible benefits, and the attendant hazards.

RELATIVE WEIGHTS OF RISKS VERSUS BENEFITS
-----------------------------------------

Even though informed consent has been obtained or can be anticipated, the committee will carefully consider the relative weights of the risks and benefits of the procedures to the subjects.

NOTIFYING THE PROJECT DIRECTOR OF THE COMMITTEE'S DECISION
----------------------------------------------------------

When the committee's overall recommendation concerning a research project is favorable, it will prescribe restrictions or conditions under which research may be conducted, define areas of possible pertinent changes in the research plans which should be brought to the investigator's attention, and determine the nature and frequency of interim review procedures to insure continued acceptable conduct of the research. Unfavorable recommendations concerning the proposed research project cannot be removed except by the committee. Under no circumstances shall proposed research or proposed changes in research plans not approved by the research committee be implemented with sponsor funds. In the event of unfavorable recommendations, the investigator proposing the research will be informed of the reasons for any adverse actions taken by the committee.

PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A TYPICAL GRANT APPLICATION
----------------------------------------------------

The application should be discussed by the principal investigator with his department head during its preparation and subsequently submitted to the review committee before or as soon as possible after submittal to the sponsor.

The committee chairman will study each application, seek clarification and obtain expert advice or consultation as needed, and schedule it for committee consideration. Each application will be discussed carefully and unhurriedly, and the final decision and recommendation will be communicated in detail to the principal investigator. Disapproval of an application may be appealed to a full meeting of both committees and the Vice President and Provost, with the investigator appearing in person with his department head and other expert consultants to support his appeal. The final decision will be by written ballot with the Vice President and Provost voting. Confirming disapproval at this point precludes further appeal.

If the investigator agrees to the committee decision report and this is properly signed, he is free to begin his investigation when funded. If he disagrees, he may request a re-hearing for modification of the conditions of the committee decision. When all is in agreement, the Vice President and Provost will be so notified. The Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will not authorize an expenditure from sponsor funds until all questions concerning research protocol involving human subjects have been appropriately settled.

SELF-SURVEILLANCE AND REPORTING
-------------------------------

Each investigator and each department head in signing the committee decision report affirm their respective pledges: the investigator (1) to follow faithfully the protocol spelled out in his application (with amendments, if any are recommended by the committee), (2) to report promptly any departure from protocol or untoward occurrences to his department head, and (3) to modify or terminate his investigation at the decision of the department head or committee; the department head, (1) to share in the responsibility for the conduct of the investigation, (2) to consult with the review committee regarding any significant departure from protocol or the occurrence of any untoward developments, specifically, permanent disability or death, and (3) to respond to the annual request for reports of work in progress, correcting any deficiencies of supervision as they become obvious. The committee reserves the right to terminate the experiment at any time if by majority vote it decides that the risks of further experimentation are prohibitive. In the event of such an occurrence, the Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs will so notify the sponsoring agency.

CONTINUING REVIEW OF RESEARCH
-----------------------------

The committee shall require the project or program director to report to the committee for review any emergent problems or proposed procedural changes which may affect the status of the research with regard to the committee's review criteria. No such changes except those necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards will be made without prior approval by the committee. The committee shall carry out interim reviews of the conduct of all research projects at appropriate intervals.

FACILITIES AVAILABLE TO PROTECT THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

At the University of Virginia Medical Center there are extensive facilities and personnel available to protect the health and safety of human subjects, particularly those who require emergency care. The University of Virginia Medical Center is registered by the American College of Surgeons, the American Medical Association, and the American Hospital Association and is fully accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals. All internships and residencies are approved by the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American Medical Association.

RECORDS AND REPORTS
-------------------

The formal records of the committee are as follows: (1) Minutes of Meetings - A copy will be furnished to each committee member and the Vice President and Provost. The Minutes will identify each application by title, intended sponsor, identifying number (if shown), project period, and principal investigator(s), with appropriate source and substance of any expert advice made part of the review, and will record any pertinent discussion, tabulated vote, and the final decision on each application. Also, the committee decision reports will be recorded as soon as possible. (2) Committee Decision Report - Three copies are to be completed for each application. This form includes the date of the meeting, the number of members present, the title, the identifying number, principal investigator(s), the majority decision, any suggestions concerning possible need for expert advice and consultation or utilization of special professional assistance or facilities, specific recommendations of methods to be used in obtaining informed consent, the requirement that all departures from protocol, untoward developments, etc. be reported to the department head, the request that the department head periodically review this investigation as part of work and progress in his department, and the signatures of the committee chairman, the principal investigator(s) and the department head. (3) Annual Reports - The committee will request a statement of satisfactory progress in January from each department head under whom a principal investigator has begun or continued a previously approved investigation during the previous year. These reports are to be kept in the committee files, and a summary will be sent to the Vice President and Provost for his records.

REPORTS BY STANDING COMMITTEES
------------------------------

Mr. William S. Potter, Chairman of the Finance Committee, reported that the Finance Committee had heard a detailed report on the Tayloe Murphy Institute by Dean C. Stewart Sheppard. Dean Sheppard has taken a keen interest in the Tayloe Murphy Institute and intends to revitalize it. He is going to reactivate the Council and get a new director. Mr. Potter advised the Board of Visitors that the Finance Committee has offered the assistance of the Committee to Dean Sheppard in this endeavor.

Mr. Potter reported that the Finance Committee has approved the faculty mortgages in the amount of one million dollars during the past six month period.

Mr. Edwin K. Mattern, acting for Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, reported that the Buildings and Grounds Committee reviewed plans for Lambeth Field Housing, Observatory Road Dining Facilities, Clinch Valley College Swimming Pool and Drama (Laboratory) Building at Clinch Valley College. He also reported that plans for widening University Avenue north of the University has been discussed and that the proposed plan is acceptable to the Committee.

Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, reported that the non-refundable deposit required of individuals accepting admission has been increased $100 to $250. He also reported that the Committee foresees improvement in the library situation.

Mr. W. Wright Harrison, Chairman of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee, had a most pleasant meeting and a most encouraging one. The Committee heard a report by the incoming and outgoing presidents of the Honor Committee. The reports indicated that the Honor System is strong at the University. The outgoing and incoming presidents and vice-presidents of Student Council were also heard. They stressed the need for more stringent security measures at the University as the enrollment of women students increases. The incoming chairman of the Judiciary Committee requested that the rules of conduct be clarified. There was also a discussion at the meeting of Atlantic Coast Conference matters and also of the recent meeting between Charlottesville law enforcement authorities and the University on the subject of drug use.

Dr. J. Hartwell Harrison, Chairman of the Medical Committee, reported for the Committee. The site for the psychological institute adjacent to the Children's Rehabilitation Center and to the Commonwealth Court Motel was approved by the Board.

It was proposed that the title of the Medical Committee be changed to the Committee for Health Sciences. It was pointed out that to change the name of a committee, it would be necessary to modify the Manual. Further consideration will be given to this suggestion at a future meeting.

Dr. Harrison reported that Dean Mary Lohr is scheduled to leave the University at the close of the current semester and Dr. Phyllis Verhonick has been appointed to serve as Acting Dean until the position of Dean of the School of Nursing is filled.

Dr. Brownie E. Polly urged the Board to consider holding a meeting of the Board at Clinch Valley College in April of 1973. Further study of the feasibility of having a meeting at Clinch Valley College will be undertaken.

Mrs. E. Parker Brown, Chairman of the Mary Washington College Committee, reported that a Mary Washington College student, Christine Ann Crawford, has written to the Attorney General to complain that University of Virginia will not appear on her diploma since she will not graduate in June. It was the consensus of the Board that after the transfer of Mary Washington College to its own Board of Visitors, it would not be appropriate for this Board to make recommendations with respect to the inscriptions on the Mary Washington College diplomas. Mrs. Brown also reported that the objections to the transfer of the James Monroe Law Library Museum have been withdrawn and that the transfer which will take place on July 1, 1972 meets the approval of the museum officers.

By action of the Board of Visitors, the Mary Washington College Committee will be dissolved on June 30, 1972.

STATEMENT REGARDING UNIVERSITY MAILINGS
---------------------------------------

Mr. William Potter reported the Finance Committee's discussion regarding University mailings which include commercial advertisements. It was agreed generally that such mailings should cease and the University not lend its facilities to such advertising in the future without the consent of the Finance Committee. Lists of students are not to be released for other than official University uses.

MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
----------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Miss Martha C. Awdziewicz as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Russian), for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mr. J. Christopher Bill as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a ten-month session salary of $.Mr. Stephen W. Fuller as Assistant Professor of Biology, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.Miss Diane F. Hatch as Assistant Professor of Classics, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Malinda B. Orlin as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a ten-month session salary of $.Mrs. Peggy K. Reinburg as Instructor in Music, one-half time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Mary Jane Sotzing as Assistant Instructor in Chemistry, part-time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a total salary of $.Mrs. Ruby York Weinbrecht as Librarian, with the academic rank of Professor, effective July 1, 1972, at an annual salary of $.Mr. William R. Williams as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three years, effective August 16, 1972, at a ten-month session salary of $.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty of Mary Washington College:Mrs. Marcia C. Chaves as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), one-half time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.Mrs. Joanna L. Quann as Instructor in Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), one-half time, for one year, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.

CHANGE IN THE TERM OF THE RE-ELECTION OF MR. LAFAYETTE J. JONES
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the re-election of Mr. Lafayette J. Jones, as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, as approved by the Board on April 7, 1972, be changed two years, effective August 16, 1972, at a session salary of $.

ELECTIONS OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
-------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following members of the faculty of Mary Washington College be and they are hereby elected Professors Emeriti:Mrs. Zoe Wells Carrol Black, Professor of Biology, retiring June 30, 1972, after having served on the faculty of the College for 25 years.Mrs. Jean Slater Edson, Professor of Music and Physics, retiring June 30, 1972, after having served on the faculty of the College for 25 years.Mr. George E. Luntz, Professor of Music, retiring June 30, 1972, after having served on the faculty of the College for 15 years.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs. Elaine C. Koffman, Assistant Professor of Psychology, resigning because of pregnancy, effective June 30, 1972.Mrs. Melinda A. Lorenz, Instructor in Art, effective June 30, 1972, to move to California with her husband who has had a business transfer from the area.Mr. Galo Rene Perez, Associate Professor of Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish), effective June 30, 1972, to accept the position of General Secretary of the Government Council of Ecuador.Mr. Edward F. Shaughnessy, Jr., Assistant Professor of Education, effective June 30, 1972, to accept an administrative position with Germanna Community College.

APPOINTMENT
-----------

The following appointment was announced: Mr. Nikola Nikolic, Associate Professor of Physics, as Acting Chairman of the Department of Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

APPROVAL OF THE MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE BUDGET FOR 1972-1973
------------------------------------------------------------

The Mary Washington College Budget having been recommended by the Mary Washington College and Finance Committee was formally approved by the Board of Visitors.

FACULTY SALARY SCALEMARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE FACULTY SALARY SCALE Effective July 1, 1972
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

PROFESSOR

1971-72

13,200

13,600

14,000

14,400

14,800

15,200

15,600

16,000

Proposed 1972-73

13,400

13,800

14,200

14,600

15,000

15,400

15,800

16,200

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR

1971-72

11,200

11,600

12,000

12,400

12,800

13,200

13,600

Proposed 1972-73

11,400

11,800

12,200

12,600

13,000

13,400

13,800

ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

1971-72

9,400

9,700

10,000

10,300

10,600

10,900

Proposed 1972-73

9,600

9,900

10,200

10,500

10,800

11,100

INSTRUCTOR

1971-72

8,200

8,500

8,800

9,100

9,400

9,700

Proposed 1972-73

8,400

8,700

9,000

9,300

9,600

9,900

ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR

1971-72

7,200

7,500

7,800

8,100

8,400

Proposed 1972-73

7,400

7,700

8,000

8,300

8,600

MERIT INCREASES

INCREMENT

INTERVAL

Professors and Associate Professors

$400

Annually

Assistant Professors, Instructors, Assistant Instructors

$300

Annually

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to operate under a faculty salary scale, effective July 1, 1972 as shown on the following page:

12345678PROFESSOR1971-7213,20013,60014,00014,40014,80015,20015,60016,000Proposed 1972-7313,40013,80014,20014,60015,00015,40015,80016,200ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR1971-7211,20011,60012,00012,40012,80013,20013,600Proposed 1972-7311,40011,80012,20012,60013,00013,40013,800ASSISTANT PROFESSOR1971-729,4009,70010,00010,30010,60010,900Proposed 1972-739,6009,90010,20010,50010,80011,100INSTRUCTOR1971-728,2008,5008,8009,1009,4009,700Proposed 1972-738,4008,7009,0009,3009,6009,900ASSISTANT INSTRUCTOR1971-727,2007,5007,8008,1008,400Proposed 1972-737,4007,7008,0008,3008,600 MERIT INCREASESINCREMENTINTERVALProfessors and Associate Professors$400AnnuallyAssistant Professors, Instructors, Assistant Instructors$300Annually

INCREASE IN FEES
----------------

Current Fees 1971-72

Proposed Changes

Proposed Fees 1972-73

General College Fees

$ 685

$ 50

$ 735

Student Activity Fee

27

\-

27

Residential Fee (Including Laundry, Infirmary)

468

\-

468

Board

420

\-

420

\------------

\--------

\--------

Total Virginia Student

$1,600

$ 50

$1,650

Non-Resident Tuition

755

\-

755

\------------

\--------

\--------

$2,355

$ 50

$2,405

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mary Washington College be and it is hereby authorized to establish the following student fee schedule, effective August 15, 1972, for the year 1972-73: Current Fees 1971-72Proposed ChangesProposed Fees 1972-73General College Fees$ 685$ 50$ 735Student Activity Fee27-27Residential Fee (Including Laundry, Infirmary)468-468Board420-420----------------------------Total Virginia Student$1,600$ 50$1,650Non-Resident Tuition755-755----------------------------$2,355$ 50$2,405

RESOLUTION OF THANKS TO MARY WASHINGTON COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, Mary Washington College has been a distinguished and important part of the University of Virginia since 1944; andWHEREAS the College has developed a high level of educational quality during the period of association with the University; andWHEREAS the General Assembly of Virginia has provided for the establishment of Mary Washington College as a separate institution under its own Board of Visitors as of July 1, 1972;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that congratulations be extended to Mary Washington College as it achieves independent status, and that as the College leaves the University of Virginia, it goes with the best wishes of this Board for continued success.

The Chancellor expressed thanks to this Board and to preceding Boards for tolerance and patience and for the assistance given to Mary Washington College.

The Rector said that the Board will miss the gratifying relationship that has existed between Mary Washington College and the University at Charlottesville. He complimented the Chancellor on the accomplishments of the College and expressed the thanks of the Board to Mr. Grellet Simpson for the outstanding leadership he has exhibited.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Mr. David F. Reaser as Assistant Professor of Physical Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972, at a session salary of $.

SCHOOL OF GENERAL STUDIES' MATTERSELECTIONS
-------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. William T. McChesney as Instructor in Civil Defense, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.Mr. Warren K. Salsbury as Instructor and Coordinator, Civil Defense, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RE-ELECTION
-----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. M. Howard Bryant as Director, Department of Urban Affairs and Community Services, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Frank E. Flora as Associate Dean, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Jack L. Forbes as Coordinator, Conferences and Institutes, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Wendell M. Lewis as Assistant Dean for Instruction, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. John D. Murdaugh as Assistant to the Dean for Special Programs, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSPROMOTION
-------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Robert J. Gwinn, Assistant Director to Associate Director, Central Virginia Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Robert H. Crow, Jr., as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERPROMOTION
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. David A. Brewster, Associate Director to Director, Hampton Roads Regional Office, for one year, effective April 1, 1972, at a session salary of $10,200, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $12,240.

MADISON FIELD OFFICE MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
-----------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Maurice S. Matthews, Jr., as Director, Madison Field Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Peter H. Johnson as Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1972.Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. Dean E. Brundage as Director, University of Virginia Center for Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mrs. Frances B. Rawls as Director of Admissions and Counseling, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Richard L. Renfield as Assistant Director for Instruction and Program Development, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Peter R. Henriques as Assistant Professor of History, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. John C. Deupree as Associate Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. John M. Dunnavant as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSELECTION
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. James A. Mundy as Lecturer in General Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

PROMOTION
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotion be and it is hereby made:Mr. Alfred R. Butler, IV, Associate to Director, Roanoke Regional Office, for one year, effective July 1, 1972, at a session salary of $, plus 20 percent for summer work, or a total salary of $.

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERRE-APPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------

The following re-appointment was announced: Mr. Curtis L. Ramsey as Director, for one year, effective July 1, 1972.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

RCB:jb
