---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1975'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1975) March 14, 1975
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 14, 1975

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 14, 1975
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:12 p.m., on March 14, 1975, in the Taylor Room of the Alderman Library with the following persons present: Rector Joseph H. McConnell, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, W. Wright Harrison, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, Donald E. Santarelli, Hugh Scott, and William L. Zimmer, III. Absent: Mrs. Linwood Holton, Edwin K. Mattern, and Howard W. McCall, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Kenneth R. Crispell, and Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 10, 1975, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

WELCOME TO THE RE-APPOINTED BOARD MEMBERS
-----------------------------------------

The Rector announced that Governor Mills Godwin has re-appointed Mr. C. Waller Barrett, Mr. William S. Potter, and Senator Hugh Scott to four year terms on the Board of Visitors. The Rector expressed the view that the University is fortunate that it will continue to enjoy the leadership of these dedicated Board members.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Bruce N. Allison as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Donald G. Babbitt as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Gordon M. Braden as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. E. Richard Brownlee, II, as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Lieutenant, j.g., John D. Cann as Assistant Professor of Naval Science, for three academic years, effective September 1975.Mr. Alexander S. Cochran as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. John E. Cochran, Jr., as Visiting Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Robert F. Cook as Associate Professor of French, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Angela M. Davis as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. George M. Dupuy as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ernest H. Ern as Professor, General Faculty, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Johann P. Faller as Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Professor of Architecture, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Leroy S. Fletcher as Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ernest B. Gilman as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. William J. Kehoe as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Mary H. Klein as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for the period January 16, 1975, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Robert C. Leighton as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Miss Patricia A. McClung as Instructor, General Faculty (Alderman Library), for the period April 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.Mr. William C. McDonald as Assistant Professor of German, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John C. McGalliard as Visiting Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David H. Miles as Associate Professor of German, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert S. Montjoy as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Wilbert E. Moore as Visiting Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Romney M. S. Moseley as Acting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Piter A. Nikolaev as Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures, one-fourth time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975.Mr. Gregory S. Orr as Assistant Professor of English, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Costas Papatriantafillou as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975. Mr. Papatriantafillou served as Assistant Professor during the 1972-1973 session.Mr. Kenneth W. Perry as Carman G. Blough Professor of Commerce, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Michael D. Peterson as Instructor, General Faculty (Alderman Library), for the period March 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.Mr. Jens Rieckmann as Acting Assistant Professor of German, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Meinhard Robinow as Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective February 1, 1975.Mr. James S. Schindler as Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mrs. Beverly B. Sheppe as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Social Work, one-half time, for the period January 1, 1975, through June 30, 1975.Mrs. Myrna W. Sunshine as Clinical Instructor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Social Work, for the period February 16, 1975 through June 30, 1975.Mr. James C. Templeman as Lecturer, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective January 27, 1975.Major William J. Thurneck, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for three years, effective June 30, 1975.Captain Vance G. Troutman as Assistant Professor of Air Science, for one academic year, effective May 15, 1975.Mr. Chelsea C. White as Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David M. Wyatt as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. MARTIN C. BATTESTIN AS WILLIAM R. KENAN, JR., PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Martin C. Battestin be and he is hereby elected William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of English, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. RICHARD M. BRANDT AS CURRY MEMORIAL PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Richard M. Brandt be and he is hereby elected Curry Memorial Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT V. COLEMAN AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Robert V. Coleman be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. JUDAH M. EISENBERG AS FRANCIS H. SMITH PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Judah M. Eisenberg be and he is hereby elected Francis H. Smith Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. ERNEST L. FOLK, III, AS HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF LAW
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Ernest L. Folk, III, be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF DR. JOHN SHELTON HORSLEY, III, AS ALUMNI PROFESSOR OF SURGERY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Dr. John Shelton Horsley, III, be and he is hereby elected Alumni Professor of Surgery, effective July 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. DAVID A. SHANNON ON COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF HISTORY
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. David A. Shannon be and he is hereby elected Commonwealth Professor of History, effective July 1, 1975.

ELECTION OF MR. CALVIN WOODWARD AS HENRY L. AND GRACE DOHERTY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION PROFESSOR OF LAW
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Calvin Woodward be and he is hereby elected Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1975.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Bruce J. Abbey as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ronald C. Adams as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Mary D. Ainsworth as Professor of Psychology, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Paul E. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert W. Artinian as Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Francoise M. Attinger as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Stephen L. Baehr as Assistant Professor of Russian, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. James I. Bernhardt as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Patrick J. Bird as Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. John Briddell as Visiting Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Roy L. Brown, Jr., as Acting Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Victor N. Cabas as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Kenneth D. Chastain as Associate Professor of Spanish, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Andrew J. Chmiel as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. George A. Clum as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry (Psychology), for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Neil G. Cohen as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Stanley S. Cooke as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Ivan K. Crosby as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Gadis J. Dillon as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Stephen B. Edwards as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. James P. Esposito as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Mohamed G. Gad-el-Hak as Visiting Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Wayne A. Geib as Associate Professor of Pathology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. James R. Haltiner as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Everett B. Howerton as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert G. Irving as Assistant Professor of Architectural History, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Rachel Jacoff as Acting Assistant Professor of Italian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. John A. James as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Richard N. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. William R. Johnson as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Lawrence D. Kavanagh as Visiting Professor of Astronomy, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph R. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Nabil A. Khabbaz as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Raja G. Khalifah as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Carl Landow as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Susan G. Lazar as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Richard H. Lear as Assistant Professor of Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Jacob A. Lohr as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Cyrus Makoui as Assistant Professor of Pathology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Everett J. Mann as Visiting Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Sue McCoy as Assistant Professor of Surgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Miss Judith A. Morris as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1974.Mr. Michael P. Murray as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Frederick E. Nolting, Jr., as Elis and Signe Olsson Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Nicholas Ozerov as Acting Assistant Professor of Russian, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Walter B. Panko as Assistant Professor of Urology, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Elsa P. Paulsen as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Sidney A. Pearson, Jr., as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Michael L. Perna as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. H. Owen Porter as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Annelle Powell as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Laurel R. Rodd as Acting Assistant Professor of Japanese, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Patricia M. Rodier as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert Rood as Assistant Professor of Astronomy, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976.Mr. Robert K. Rose as Acting Assistant Professor of Biology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Marion W. Ross as Assistant Professor of Anthropology and of French, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ernest A. Scatton as Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Richard G. Schlecht as Visiting Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Covie E. See as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Marsha A. Siegel as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David G. Smith as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Earl P. Smith as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Frederick K. Smith as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics (Dentistry), for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. George C. Theodoridis as Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Sybil R. Todd as Assistant Professor of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Madan M. Varma as Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. Ernesto Vasquez as Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Dr. William B. Wartman as Professor of Pathology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Miss Delba Winthrop as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following promotions be and they are hereby made:Mr. Daniel F. Albright, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Brandt R. Allen, Associate Professor to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Ralph O. Allen, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1975.Miss Ruth K. Angress, Associate Professor to Professor of German, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Alan R. Beckenstein, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Michael J. Bednar, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Rolland A. Bowers, Associate Professor to Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Harold J. Burbach, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert L. Canady, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James F. Childress, Associate Professor to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James A. D. Cox, Associate Professor of Architecture to Professor of Architectural History, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Michael J. Demetsky, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Carl A. Erdman, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Christopher Gale, Associate Professor to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Harry Y. Gamble, Jr., Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1976.Mr. Seymour E. Goodman, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Russell M. Grieger, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Edgar J. Gunter, Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James G. Hagan, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James S. Howland, Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Samuel E. Kellams, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1976.Mr. Donald J. Kirwan, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. H. Lane Kneedler, III, Associate Professor to Professor of Law, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Walter F. Korte, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert H. Kretsinger, Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert D. Landel, Associate Professor to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David M. Leslie, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1976.Mr. David Little, Associate Professor to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1975.Mrs. Margareta Mattsson, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Swedish, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James S. McCarthy, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William S. McKee, Associate Professor to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Jon D. Mikalson, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Classics, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph C. Miller, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Associate Professor to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William J. Serow, Lecturer in Business Administration, to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Joseph E. Strzepek, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Sivasupramaniam Thiagarajah, Instructor to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. James S. Trefil, Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert H. Trent, Associate Professor to Professor of Commerce, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Theodore R. F. Wright, Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1975.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Martin C. Battestin, Professor of English, for one academic session, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research in London on a Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Humanities.Mr. S. Michael Bernhard, Instructor, General Faculty (Alderman Library), for the month of July, 1975, to teach during the summer session at the Graduate School of Library Science, University of Illinois.Mr. John C. Coleman, Assistant Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1976, to carry out research.Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr., Associate Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to accept an award from the American Council on Learned Societies.Mr. Ernest L. Folk, III, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as Visiting Professor, Columbia University Law School.Mr. Ernest Gellhorn, Professor of Law, one-third time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to serve as Senior Counsel to the Rockefeller Commission.Mr. Leslie E. Grayson, Professor of International Business Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to accept a Visiting Professorship at the Institut European d'Administration des Affaires, Fontainbleau.Mr. J. A. C. Hetherington, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as Visiting Professor at Stanford University.Mr. Hui-Hsiung Kuo, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as Visiting Assistant Professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo.Mr. Lee R. Johnston, Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to continue Visiting Professorship at North European Management Institute, Oslo.Mr. John C. McCoid, Armistead M. Dobie Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to serve as Visiting Professor at Stanford University.Mr. John N. Moore, Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975, to continue service as Chairman of the United States National Securities Council Inter-Agency Task Force on the Law of the Sea.Mr. Peter H. Taylor, Commonwealth Professor of English, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research.Mr. Richard J. Van Brunt, Assistant Professor of Physics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to carry out research with the National Bureau of Standards.Mr. William S. Weedon, University Professor of Philosophy, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975, to carry out research.

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, MARCH 29, 1974
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the leave of absence granted to Mr. Theodore Caplow, as approved by the Board on March 29, 1974, be changed to read as follows:Mr. Theodore Caplow, Commonwealth Professor of Sociology, one-half time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1975, to engage in field research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Franklyn N. Arnhoff, from John Edward Fowler Professor of Clinical Psychology, Professor of Psychiatry, Research Professor of Anesthesiology, Lecturer in Sociology, and Lecturer in Psychology, to John Edward Fowler Professor of Psychology and University Professor, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Raymond D. Dueser, from Acting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, to Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 16, 1975 through May 31, 1977.Mr. Irvin Ehrenpreis, from Commonwealth Professor of English, to Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English Literature, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Harold A. Hopkins, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Mr. Marc E. Kellner, from Lecturer in Religious Studies, to Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Dr. Charles J. Kovacs, from Instructor in Pediatric Radiobiology, to Instructor in Biomedical Engineering, for one year, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. William B. Looney, from Professor of Pediatrics and of Radiology, to Professor of Biomedical Engineering and of Radiology, effective July 1, 1974.Dr. George Moore, Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and of Pediatrics, for the period January 1, 1975 through June 30, 1976.Mr. Stephen F. Railton, from Acting Assistant Professor, to Assistant Professor of English, for the period January 1, 1975 through May 31, 1977.Mr. Arthur G. Stevens, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Lecturer in Government and Foreign Affairs, one-fourth time, for the period February 1, 1975, through May 31, 1975.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. McLemore Birdsong, Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1975. Dr. Birdsong has been a member of the faculty since 1941.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English, effective May 31, 1975. Mr. Bowers has been a member of the faculty since 1938.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1975. Mr. Kellogg has been a member of the faculty since 1956.Miss Charlotte Kohler, Professor of English, effective June 30, 1975. Miss Kohler has been in service of the University since 1942.Mr. Carl McFarland, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1975. Mr. McFarland has been a member of the faculty since 1958.Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Joseph L. Vaughan Professor of Humanities, effective May 31, 1975. Mr. Vaughan has been a member of the faculty since 1932.

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITI
-----------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. McLemore Birdsong, Professor of Pediatrics.Mr. Fredson T. Bowers, Linden Kent Memorial Professor of English.Mr. Marion K. Kellogg, Professor of Law.Miss Charlotte Kohler, Professor of English.Mr. Carl McFarland, Henry L. and Grace Doherty Charitable Foundation Professor of Law.Mr. Joseph L. Vaughan, Joseph L. Vaughan Professor of Humanities.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Dr. Thomas Aceto, Professor of Pediatrics, effective March 4, 1975, to accept a position at the University of South Dakota.Mr. Houston A. Baker, Professor of English, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position at the University of Pennsylvania.Mr. Edward I. Berry, Assistant Professor of English, effective May 31, 1975, to accept an associate professorship at Victoria University, British Columbia.Mr. Edwin M. Crawford, Vice-President for Public Affairs, effective March 31, 1975, to accept a position as Vice-President for Public Affairs at The Ohio State University.Mr. Charles R. Davis, Assistant Professor, Alderman Library, effective March 31, 1975, to accept a position at Smith College.Dr. Jack C. Fisher, Associate Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective February 15, 1975, to accept a position at the University of California, San Diego.Mr. Larry W. Gibson, Assistant Professor of Architecture, effective January 15, 1975, to accept professional consultant position in Denver.Mr. Curtis W. McIntyre, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position at Southern Methodist University.Mr. Norbert M. Samuelson, Assistant Professor of Religious Studies, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position at Temple University.Dr. Ronald V. Scheele, Assistant Professor of Radiology (Radiologic Physics), effective April 15, 1975, to accept a position at St. Vincent's Hospital, Green Bay, Wisconsin.Mr. William G. Shenkir, Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1975, to accept a position with the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mrs. Mary D. Ainsworth as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Robert E. Cape as Manager of Academic Computing, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Leroy S. Fletcher as Chairman, Department of Mechanical Engineering, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. William H. Harbaugh as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James E. Kinard as Curator, The Rotunda, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. A. Robert Kuhlthau as Chairman, Department of Engineering Science and Systems, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. David H. Miles as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Edward V. Mochel as Acting Chairman, Department of Mechanical Engineering, for the period January 13, 1975, through August 31, 1975.Mr. Wilbert E. Moore as a Member, Center for Advanced Studies, for one semester, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. James L. Rovnyak as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1975.Mr. Robert E. Stong as Chairman, Department of Mathematics, for five academic years, effective September 1, 1976.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mr. J. Taylor Beard as Academic Space Administrator, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. J. Norwood Bosserman as Dean, School of Architecture, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Herbert E. Coolidge as Assistant Director, Office of Institutional Analysis, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Director, Financial Aid to Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Thomas E. Ewert as Director, Blandy Experimental Farm, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. Paul C. Gaertner as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. George A. McAlpine as Director, Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. David Morris as Assistant Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective June 1, 1975.Mr. William J. Serow as Research Director, Tayloe Murphy Institute, for three years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. William W. Sihler as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, The Darden School, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. A. Ward Sims as Director of University Development, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. C. Ray Smith as Associate Dean for Administration, The Darden School, for two years, effective July 1, 1975.Mr. John L. Snook, Jr., as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, The Darden School, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.Mrs. Michele S. Wilson as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1975.

DEATH OF MR. FLOYD NELSON HOUSE
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. MALCOLM M. PROVUS
------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF THE ALUMNI PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Alumni Professorship in Surgery.

SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS FOR 1976
-----------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1976 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved:January 22, 23, 1976March 25, 26, 1976May 27, 28, 1976October 14, 15, 1976

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on the current status of the construction program. He made specific note of the status of the Rotunda project which is on schedule, with completion of construction expected on December 31, 1975.

REPORT ON THE 1975 SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
--------------------------------------------------

The President presented a brief summary of the actions of the 1975 General Assembly that are related to the operations of the University of Virginia. In this report, he noted that the General Assembly has approved the following capital outlay projects: Primary Care Center, Federal Executive Institute, Executive Programs Center, Copeley Hill Housing, and a Law-Graduate Business Dining Facility.

The President expressed his appreciation to the General Assembly for its support of University programs.

INCREASES IN TUITION IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND IN THE DARDEN SCHOOL OF GRADUATE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginians

Out-of-State

Current 1974-75

Proposed 1975-76

Current 1974-75

Proposed 1975-76

A. Darden School of Graduate Business Administration:

Students Entering, Fall 1975

$800

$1,050

$2,000

$2,500

Students Entered Before 1975

$800

$ 925

$2,000

$2,250

B. School of Medicine:

$1,000

$1,175

$2,300

$2,650

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following tuition charges shall supersede all previous schedules, that they shall become effective for the 1975-76 session, and that they are hereby approved: VirginiansOut-of-StateCurrent 1974-75Proposed 1975-76Current 1974-75Proposed 1975-76A. Darden School of Graduate Business Administration:Students Entering, Fall 1975$800$1,050$2,000$2,500Students Entered Before 1975$800$ 925$2,000$2,250B. School of Medicine:$1,000$1,175$2,300$2,650

COMPREHENSIVE FEE
-----------------

Current 1974-75

Proposed 1975-76 1976-77

Proposed 1977-78

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ 15.00

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure

7.00

7.00

2.00

University Transit

12.00

12.00

Pledged to amortize a loan for remodeling Newcomb Hall

5.00

5.00

Faculty TIAA

70.00

110.00

Athletics

25.00

25.00

30.00

Student Health

60.00

60.00

University Union

14.00

14.00

University Union Programs

5.00

5.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

\-

10.00

\----------

\----------

$217.00

$267.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Comprehensive Fee be and it is hereby modified and approved as indicated: Current 1974-75Proposed 1975-76 1976-77Proposed 1977-78Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall$ 15.00$ 15.00Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure7.007.002.00University Transit12.0012.00Pledged to amortize a loan for remodeling Newcomb Hall5.005.00Faculty TIAA70.00110.00Athletics25.0025.0030.00Student Health60.0060.00University Union14.0014.00University Union Programs5.005.00Class Affiliation4.004.00Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities-10.00--------------------$217.00$267.00

UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS
----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Service Support Units Bad Debts Committee be and it is hereby authorized, as recommended by it, to charge off the following uncollectible accounts: Schedule #9, University Press of Virginia, $882.65; Schedule #10, Research Laboratory for Engineering Sciences, $62.50; Schedule #11, Alderman Library, $6.59; Schedule #12, Newcomb Hall Bookstore, $3,480.80; Schedule #13, McGuffey Reading Center, $305.00; Schedule #14, University of Virginia Medical Center, Division of Medical Art and Photography, $6.24; Schedule #15, Newcomb Hall Bookstore, $14.28.

UNCOLLECTIBLE STUDENT ACCOUNTS
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized, as recommended by it, to charge off the following uncollectible student accounts: Schedule #39, Student Tuition, Fees and Dormitory Rent, $4,068.12; Schedule #40, National Defense Students Loans, $612.37; Schedule #41, University Student Loan Funds, $2,835.58.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$145,970.78

Free service to Counties and Cities

229,318.20

\------------

Total

$375,288.98

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to charge off as uncollectible accounts schedules totaling $375,288.98, as recommended by it, consisting of the following: Bad debts$145,970.78Free service to Counties and Cities229,318.20------------Total$375,288.98

REPORT ON SPEAKERS
------------------

The President reported that some inquiries have been received about the policies of the University with respect to "controversial" speakers. He advised that it is the University's policy to permit anyone to speak. He also discussed the payment of fees to John Dean who spoke at the University on February 2, 1975. Mr. Hereford advised that all of the costs of the Dean appearance were obtained from admission fees, and that the funds provided by admission fees exceeded the cost of the appearance.

REPORT ON CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------

The President advised the Board that he had received a suggestion, which grew out of the Clinch Valley College self-study that the Board of Visitors establish a Clinch Valley College Committee which would meet at the College on a regular basis. Following discussion, the President was instructed to write to Mr. Joseph Smiddy, Chancellor of Clinch Valley College, advising him that it will not be feasible for the Board of Visitors to form a Clinch Valley College Committee. In reaching this decision, the Board referred to its resolution of February 2, 1972, which authorizes planning for Clinch Valley College as an institution separate from the University at a future date.

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

A list of gifts and grants was distributed to the Board. The President expressed his appreciation to all of those who contributed, and he noted especially the continuing generosity of Mr. C. Waller Barrett.

RESOLUTION OF AUTHORIZATION TO FILE LETTER OF INTENT FOR THE PH.D. PROGRAM IN RELIGIOUS STUDIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization be and it is hereby granted for the filing of a letter of intent with the State Council of Higher Education for the Ph.D. Program in Religious Studies.

RESOLUTION OF AUTHORIZATION TO FILE LETTER OF INTENT FOR THE ED.D. PROGRAM IN HEALTH AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that authorization be and it is hereby granted for filing a letter of intent with the State Council of Higher Education for the Ed.D. Program in Health and Physical Education.

NAMING OF THE EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS CENTER
---------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name Sponsors Hall be and it is hereby approved for the Executive Programs Center to be erected adjacent to The Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.

APPLICATION TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR A GRANT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PRIMARY CARE CENTER - INCREMENT II
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the President or Comptroller be and either of them, is hereby authorized to apply to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare for a grant to be used for the construction of the Primary Care Center - Increment II.

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 2:18 p.m.

RCB:jb
