---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1976'
month: 5
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1976) May 28, 1976
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

May 28, 1976

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES (TENTATIVE) Subject to approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA May 28, 1976
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:38 p.m., on May 28, 1976, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, George C. Palmer, II, and Donald E. Santarelli. Absent: Howard W. McCall, Jr., William S. Potter, and Hugh Scott. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Avery Catlin, Vincent Shea, Kenneth R. Crispell, and Ernest H. Ern were present throughout the meeting.

WELCOMING OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
-----------------------------

Rector William L. Zimmer, III, welcomed Mr. William C. Battle whose appointment to the Board of Visitors was announced by Governor Mills Godwin on March 3, 1976.

DEATH OF WILLIAM MCLEMORE BIRDSONG
----------------------------------

The Secretary announced the death on May 1, 1976 of William McLemore Birdsong, a member of the Board of Visitors from March 1966 to February 1970.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1977. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: William L. Zimmer, III, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, William E. Leggett, and Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Sciences CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF MRS. MARY D. AINSWORTH AS COMMONWEALTH PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF DR. JAY Y. GILLENWATER AS JOHN E. COLE PROFESSOR IN UROLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. STANLEY D. HENDERSON AS F. D. G. RIBBLE PROFESSOR OF LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. A. E. DICK HOWARD AS WHITE BURKETT MILLER PROFESSOR OF LAW AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. JOHN N. MOORE AS WALTER L. BROWN PROFESSOR OF LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. DEREK A. NEWTON AS ELIS AND SIGNE OLSSON PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. MARSHALL S. SHAPO AS JOSEPH M. HARTFIELD PROFESSOR OF LAW
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM W. SIHLER TO THE MORRIS PLAN CHAIR OF CONSUMER CREDIT, GIVEN BY ARTHUR J. MORRIS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. JOHN F. SIMONS TO THE MORRIS PLAN CHAIR OF CONSUMER BANKING, GIVEN BY ARTHUR J. MORRIS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MRS. JOANNE SIMPSON AS WILLIAM W. CORCORAN PROFESSOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT F. VANDELL AS CHARLES C. ABBOTT PROFESSOR OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION OF MR. MASON WILLRICH AS JOHN C. STENNIS PROFESSOR OF LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHANGE OF TITLE
-------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

CHANGE IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. P. KEITH F. MOXEY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the effective date of the appointment of Mr. P. Keith F. Moxey as Chairman, Department of Art, as approved by the Board on January 23, 1976, be changed from September 1, 1976 to April 6, 1976.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF MR. ROBERT E. LUTZ
---------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DONALD C. BARNES PROFESSORSHIP OF CARDIOLOGY IN INTERNAL MEDICINE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MARY AND DANIEL LOUGHRAN PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LILLIAN T. PRATT PROFESSORSHIP IN ORTHOPEDICS
------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE F. D. G. RIBBLE PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JOHN E. COLE PROFESSORSHIP IN UROLOGY
----------------------------------------------------------

DATE OF OCTOBER 1976 MEETING DATES
----------------------------------

The Board reaffirmed Wednesday, October 13 and Thursday, October 14, 1976 as the dates for the fall meetings of this year.

MEETING DATES FOR 1977
----------------------

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$284,782.00

Free Service

$536,408.03

\--------------

Total

$821,190.03

APPROVAL OF THE 1976-1977 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1976-1977 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1976-1977 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION, AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

In a report distributed to the Board on the status of construction projects, the Board was advised that the Primary Care Center building is under construction, and that the completion date is scheduled to be May 1978. Seven other projects are in the construction phase. Seventeen additional projects are in planning stages at the University in Charlottesville, and two at Clinch Valley College.

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE CHAIRMAN OF THE UNIVERSITY RESEARCH COUNCIL AND THE ACTING ASSOCIATE PROVOST FOR RESEARCH TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND TRAINING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE FIRM OF JOHNSON, CRAVEN, AND GIBSON TO DESIGN AN ADDITION TO MADISON HALL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION TO THE MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, DATED MARCH 26, 1976, REGARDING RENTAL CHARGE FOR FACULTY APARTMENT #27
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF TRUSTEE UNDER THE WILL OF EDWARD J. FOLKES
------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION APPROVING RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO IMPROVE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE BOARD AND THE STUDENT BODY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION ON CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
------------------------------------

LEAVE POLICY FOR THE RESEARCH LABORATORY FOR ENGINEERING SCIENCES (RLES)1. Annual Leave2. Sick Leave3. Leave as a Result of Injury on the Job4. Leave Without Pay5. Exchange of Leave Credit between State & Local Departments
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1-5 years of service

24 days

6-10 years of service

30 days

Over 10 years of service

36 days

A. The responsibility for properly administering leave policies is three-fold with that of the University Personnel Office being to handle the routine of recording and accounting. The most important responsibilities lie with the individual and his supervisor in seeing that annual leave is scheduled and utilized to the advantage of both the employee and the work program; that sick leave is utilized when necessary to the health of the employee and/or his fellow workers; and that compensatory leave for extra work requested by the supervisor is provided.

B. No leave allowances are provided for service of less than 15 calendar days. One-half working day leave credit is allowed for 15 or more calendar days, but less than one calendar month of service. Leave credits are in working days, not calendar days.

C. No credits for leave with pay shall be made for an employee holding a temporary appointment or employed on a piece work, hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly rate agreement.

D. A person who is re-employed will accrue leave for continuous service only beginning with the latest date of re-employment.

E. The maximum allowances for leave are for full-time permanent employees and for those holding a restricted appointment. Part-time permanent employees are credited with leave in proportion to their actual hours worked.

F. A person who is reinstated shall be credited with all unused balances of leave (except annual and compensatory leave) held as the date of previous separation, and shall have all creditable service before that date considered in determining the rate of accrual; a person who is reinstated on return from military leave shall receive, also, a full benefit of the period of military service in determining the rate of accrual.

G. No leave of absence with pay shall be granted in anticipation of future leave which will be accumulated. That is, an employee must have completed a period of work before taking the leave he would have accumulated.

H. Kinds of Leaves of Absence:

Note: Hourly employees and student personnel do not accrue annual leave.

RLES annual leave will be accrued on a yearly basis beginning January 1.

Annual leave accrual rates will apply when an employee is on annual leave provided his length of absence on annual leave does not exceed 60 consecutive calendar days.

Credit toward five or ten years of changes in the accrual rate will not be given for any period in which the employee was off the payroll. The only exception shall be for military leave without pay.

Employees who have separated and are re-employed will not receive credit for prior service in determining the rate of accrual for annual leave.

The annual leave credits provided may be used, at option of the employee, to provide paid absences for vacation and other personal purposes (including sickness), or for absences in excess of the credits available for other kinds of leave.

No annual leave credit shall be provided for service less than a full semi-monthly pay period, or fifteen calendar days, whichever is less; the credit for full semi-monthly pay period, or more than fifteen calendar days but less than one calendar month shall be one-half the monthly accrual rate. No annual leave credit shall be provided during any period of absence immediately following an absence of sixty calendar days.

The RLES policy concerning sick leave is the same as that of the University. It applies to all RLES employees except hourly employees and students.

Sick leave may not be taken in advance. In those instances where an individual is absent due to sickness and has no sick leave accrued, the absence is charged to annual leave or accrued compensatory time. Lacking either of these alternatives, the absence then becomes leave without pay.

Sick leave for more than 60 days requires presentation to the RLES Director of a physician's certificate at that time and monthly thereafter.

An individual who may lose annual leave at the time of the December 31 audit may elect to substitute annual leave for sick leave charges for illness.

Workman's Compensation leave with full pay is allowed for 92 calendar days plus 60 work days. Accrued sick leave, then annual leave is used, after which the individual goes on leave without pay, but continues to receive Workman's Compensation direct.

Leave without pay must be approved by the Director and may be granted for vacation and sick time beyond that authorized with pay and for certain other purposes, such as pursuit of courses of study related to the work the employee performs. Leave without pay in excess of 30 days will be granted only if RLES will benefit substantially from such leave. All annual leave and compensatory leave, and sick leave if the employee is absent for illness, must be used before going on leave without pay - such other leave cannot be "saved" until return from leave without pay.

Annual or sick leave are not earned while on leave without pay.

Any employee returning from leave of absence without pay during, or at the end of, the period for which the leave was granted shall be entitled to reinstatement under the conditions provided elsewhere in these rules. If an employee fails to return to work at the end of the period for which leave was granted, he shall be treated as having resigned.

a. Transfer from special fund positions to State-paid positions - Service with University departments in positions paid by non-State funds may be counted as creditable service for annual, compensatory and sick leave purposes upon transfer to a State-paid, permanent position provided (1) credits for and charges against leave in the departmental position were made in accordance with the provisions of this manual and (2) the department head of the receiving department agrees to accept the leave.

b. Transfer from State-paid positions to special fund positions - Balance for annual, compensatory and sick leaves may be transferred from a State-paid position to a special fund position provided the Director of RLES agrees to accept the leave. The decision regarding transfer of leave must be made prior to the transfer and should be stated on the Personnel form reporting the appointment of the employee. Once the decision is made and the employee is transferred, there will be no change in the agreement.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF APPROVAL BY THE STATE COUNCIL OF HIGHER EDUCATION OF DEGREE PROGRAMS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GIFTS AND GRANTS
----------------

The President distributed a list of gifts and grants. He expressed thanks, on behalf of the University to those who contributed, and supported University activities.

REPORT ON FOUNDER'S DAY SCHEDULE
--------------------------------

The President discussed with the Board the change of schedule for Founder's Day, which will be celebrated starting this year in mid-October. The President advised that a joint celebration between the University and the Thomas Jefferson Foundation will continue.

APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTS FOR PEABODY HALL RENOVATION
--------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING BONDS FOR LAMBETH FIELDRESOLUTION ON BONDS FOR LAMBETH FIELD HOUSINGUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAMBETH FIELD HOUSING$5,200,000 General Obligation Bonds Projected Debt ServiceUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA LAMBETH FIELD HOUSINGEstimated Net Revenue Available for Debt Service For $5,200,000 General Obligation Bonds
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Project

Amount

Lambeth Field Housing

$5,200,000

FISCAL YEAR

Principal Balance

Principal Payment

Interest @ 5%

Total Principal & Interest

Net Revenue

Coverage %

1976-77

$5,200,000

$ 165,000

$ 260,000

$ 425,000

$500,100

118

1977-78

5,035,000

175,000

251,750

426,750

500,100

117

1978-79

4,860,000

185,000

243,000

428,000

500,100

117

1979-80

4,675,000

195,000

233,750

428,750

500,100

117

1980-81

4,480,000

205,000

224,000

429,000

500,100

117

1981-82

4,275,000

215,000

213,750

428,750

500,100

117

1982-83

4,060,000

225,000

203,000

428,000

500,100

117

1983-84

3,835,000

235,000

191,750

426,750

500,100

117

1984-85

3,600,000

250,000

180,000

430,000

500,100

116

1985-86

3,350,000

260,000

167,500

427,500

500,100

117

1986-87

3,090,000

275,000

154,500

429,500

500,100

116

1987-88

2,815,000

285,000

140,750

425,750

500,100

117

1988-89

2,530,000

295,000

126,500

421,500

500,100

119

1989-90

2,235,000

310,000

111,750

421,750

500,100

119

1990-91

1,925,000

320,000

96,250

416,250

500,100

120

1991-92

1,605,000

330,000

80,250

410,250

500,100

122

1992-93

1,275,000

340,000

63,750

403,750

500,100

124

1993-94

935,000

355,000

46,750

401,750

500,100

124

1994-95

580,000

365,000

29,000

394,000

500,100

127

1995-96

215,000

215,000

10,750

225,750

500,100

222

$5,200,000

$3,028,750

$8,228,750

ESTIMATED REVENUES:

Regular Session - (838 x $700)

$586,600

Summer Session - (300 x $135)

40,500

Conferences and Institutes

86,000

Total Estimated Revenue

$713,100

ESTIMATED OPERATING EXPENSES:

Maintenance

$ 27,000

Contractual Services (including heat, light and power)

135,000

Allocated portion of administrative costs

42,700

Supplies

6,000

Equipment replacement

2,300

Total Estimated Operating Expenses

$213,000

ESTIMATED NET REVENUE

$500,100

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA:

Section 1. The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the "University") (a) covenants to fix, revise, charge and collect rates, fees and charges for or in connection with the use, occupation or services of the Project, and (b) pledges the net revenues therefrom to the payment of the principal of and the interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project. The University further covenants that such rates, fees and charges will be fixed, revised, charged and collected so that the net revenues from the Project will at all times be sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project. Any such revenues in excess of the amounts required for the payment of principal of and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project may be used by the University for any other proper purpose.

Section 2. It is hereby found, determined and declared that, based upon responsible engineering and economic estimates and as shown on the computation of available net revenues attached hereto as Exhibit A, the anticipated net revenues pledged above will be sufficient to pay principal of and interest on that portion of the Bonds issued to finance the Project.

Section 3. The University covenants that it will pay to the State Treasurer 30 days before each semi-annual interest payment date the amount certified by the State Treasurer to be due and payable for the payment of the principal of and the interest on that portion of the Bonds issued on behalf of the University to finance the Project.

Section 4. The University covenants to pay from time to time the University's proportionate part of all expenses incurred in connection with the sale and issuance of the Bonds and all expenses thereafter incurred in connection with the payment of the principal of and the interest on the Bonds, all as certified by the State Treasurer to the University.

$5,200,000 General Obligation Bonds Projected Debt ServiceFISCAL YEARPrincipal BalancePrincipal PaymentInterest @ 5%Total Principal & InterestNet RevenueCoverage %1976-77$5,200,000$ 165,000$ 260,000$ 425,000$500,1001181977-785,035,000175,000251,750426,750500,1001171978-794,860,000185,000243,000428,000500,1001171979-804,675,000195,000233,750428,750500,1001171980-814,480,000205,000224,000429,000500,1001171981-824,275,000215,000213,750428,750500,1001171982-834,060,000225,000203,000428,000500,1001171983-843,835,000235,000191,750426,750500,1001171984-853,600,000250,000180,000430,000500,1001161985-863,350,000260,000167,500427,500500,1001171986-873,090,000275,000154,500429,500500,1001161987-882,815,000285,000140,750425,750500,1001171988-892,530,000295,000126,500421,500500,1001191989-902,235,000310,000111,750421,750500,1001191990-911,925,000320,00096,250416,250500,1001201991-921,605,000330,00080,250410,250500,1001221992-931,275,000340,00063,750403,750500,1001241993-94935,000355,00046,750401,750500,1001241994-95580,000365,00029,000394,000500,1001271995-96215,000215,00010,750225,750500,100222$5,200,000$3,028,750$8,228,750

Estimated Net Revenue Available for Debt Service For $5,200,000 General Obligation BondsESTIMATED REVENUES:Regular Session - (838 x $700)$586,600Summer Session - (300 x $135)40,500Conferences and Institutes86,000Total Estimated Revenue$713,100ESTIMATED OPERATING EXPENSES:Maintenance$ 27,000Contractual Services (including heat, light and power)135,000Allocated portion of administrative costs42,700Supplies6,000Equipment replacement2,300Total Estimated Operating Expenses$213,000ESTIMATED NET REVENUE$500,100

RESOLUTION ON SEWER EASEMENT ACROSS BIRDWOOD PROPERTY FOR MOREY CREEK INTERCEPTOR
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION GRANTING EASEMENT OF INGRESS AND EGRESS ACROSS A PORTION OF BLANDY EXPERIMENTAL FARM
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION IN CONNECTION WITH POOLED INCOME FUND
------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTION
-------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------

PROMOTION
---------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE MATTERSRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------

On motion the meeting was adjourned at 3:03 p.m.

RCB:jb

Appendix 1 TRUST AGREEMENT FOR POOLED INCOME FUNDWITNESSETH:1. Name of Fund.2. Gifts of Remainder Interest Required.3. Retention of Life Income Interest Required.4. Commingling of Property Required.5. Prohibition Against Exempt Securities.6. Control by Institution Required.7. Prohibition Against Donor or Beneficiary Serving as Trustee.8. Taxable Year - Income of Beneficiary to be Based on Rate of Return of Pool.9. Termination of Life Income Interest.10. Proration Not Required.11. Unit Plan of Allocation of Income to Beneficiary.12. Determination dates.13. Prohibited Activities.14. Definition of Income.15. Trustees' Powers and Compensation.16. Incorporation by Reference.17. Purpose.18. Governing Law.19. Limited Power to Amend.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 28th day of May, 1976, between THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a Virginia public corporation, the principal office of which is located in Charlottesville, Virginia (the Institution), and UNITED VIRGINIA BANK, a Virginia banking corporation, of Richmond, Virginia (the Trustee).

From time to time in the past the Institution has received gifts for its ultimate benefit with the donors reserving to themselves, and in some cases others, the income from the property for their lives. Because of the complicated tax provisions presently applicable to charitable remainder trusts, the Institution believes it would be desirable to create a fund that would qualify as a pooled income fund under § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The Trustee is willing to act as the Trustee of such a fund.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:

The fund to be held, administered and distributed pursuant to this Agreement shall be known as the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund and is hereinafter referred to for convenience as the "Pool".

Each donor transferring property to the Pool shall contribute an irrevocable remainder interest in such property to or for the use of the Institution.

Each donor transferring property to the Pool shall retain for himself for life an income interest in the property transferred, or create an income interest in such property for the life of one or more named beneficiaries, each of whom must be living at the time of the transfer of the property to the Pool by the donor. Such income interest shall be represented by units of participation in the Pool. In the event more than one beneficiary of the income interest is named, such beneficiaries may enjoy their shares of income concurrently, consecutively or both concurrently and consecutively. The Institution may also be designated as one of the beneficiaries of the income interest. The donor need not retain or create a life interest in all the income from the property transferred to the Pool provided any income not payable to an income beneficiary under the terms of the instrument of transfer is contributed to, and within the taxable year of the Pool in which it is received is paid to, the Institution.

The property transferred to the Pool by each donor must be commingled with, and invested or reinvested with, other property transferred to the Pool by other donors satisfying the requirements of this instrument and of § 642(c)(5)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law. The Pool shall not include property transferred under arrangements other than those specified in this instrument and § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law. All or any portion of the Pool may, however, be invested or reinvested jointly with other properties, not a part of this Pool, which are held by, or for the use of, the Institution. When such joint investment or reinvestment occurs, detailed accounting records shall be maintained by the Trustee of the Pool specifically identifying the portion of the total fund which is owned by the Pool and the income earned by, and attributable to, such portion.

The property transferred to the Pool by any donor shall not include any securities the income from which is exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law, and the Trustee of the Pool shall not accept or invest in any such security as a part of the Pool.

The Institution shall always maintain the Pool or exercise control, directly or indirectly, over the Pool. The Trustee may resign as Trustee of the Pool and designate a new Trustee or Trustees of the Pool. The Institution retains the power to remove such Trustee or Trustees and to designate a new Trustee or Trustees, including the Institution.

The Pool shall not have as a Trustee a donor to the Pool or a beneficiary (other than the Institution) of an income interest in any property transferred to the Pool. No donor or beneficiary (other than the Institution) shall have, directly or indirectly, general responsibilities with respect to the Pool which are ordinarily exercised by a Trustee.

The taxable year of the Pool shall be the fiscal year ending October 31. To each beneficiary entitled to income of any taxable year of the Pool, the Trustee of the Pool shall pay such income in the amount determined by the rate of return earned by the Pool for such year with respect to the beneficiary's income interest, payment to be made at least once in the taxable year in which the income is earned. Until the Trustee determines that payments shall be made more or less frequently or at other times it shall make income payments to the beneficiary or beneficiaries entitled thereto in four quarterly payments on or about March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year. An adjusting payment, if necessary, will be made during the taxable year or within the first 65 days following its close to bring the total payment to the actual income to which the beneficiary or beneficiaries were entitled for that year.

Upon the termination of the income interest of any designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, the Trustee of the Pool shall sever from the Pool an amount equal to the value of the remainder interest in the property upon which the income interest is based. The value of the remainder interest for such purpose shall be its value as of the next succeeding determination date. The amount so severed from the Pool shall be paid to the Institution.

The income interest of any beneficiary of the Pool shall terminate with the last regular payment of income which was made before the death of the beneficiary. The Trustee of the Pool shall not be required to prorate any income payment to the date of the beneficiary's death.

Every income interest retained or created in property transferred to the Pool shall be assigned a proportionate share of the annual income earned by the Pool, such share or units of participation being based on the fair market value of such property on the date of transfer as provided in this paragraph. On each transfer of property by a donor to the Pool, there shall be assigned to the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the income interest retained or created in such property the number of units of participation equal to the number obtained by dividing the fair market value of the property transferred by the fair market value of a unit in the Pool immediately before such transfer. The fair market value of a unit in the Pool immediately before the transfer shall be determined by dividing the fair market value of all property in the Pool at such time by the number of units in the Pool. All units in the Pool always shall have equal value. The amount of the income allocated to each unit of participation in the Pool shall be determined by dividing the income of the Pool for the taxable year by the outstanding number of units in the Pool at the end of such year, except that income shall be allocated to units outstanding during only part of such year by taking into consideration the period of time such units are outstanding during such year.

If possible, each transfer of property by a donor to the Pool and each withdrawal from the Pool as a result of the transfer of the remainder interest in any property of the Pool shall be made only on a determination date of the fair market value of all property held by the Pool. A determination date means each day within the taxable year of the Pool on which a valuation is made of the property in the Pool. The property of the Pool shall be valued on the first day of the taxable year and on the first day of the fourth, seventh and tenth months of the taxable year. If a transfer of property to the Pool by a donor occurs on other than a determination date, the number of units of participation assigned to the income interest in such property shall be determined by using the average fair market value of the property in the Pool immediately before the transfer, which shall be deemed to be the average of the fair market values of the property in the Pool on the determination dates immediately preceding and succeeding the date of transfer. For the purpose of determining such average fair market value, the property transferred by the donor and any other property transferred to the Pool between such preceding and succeeding dates, or on such succeeding date, shall be excluded. The fair market value of a unit in the Pool immediately before the transfer shall be determined by dividing the average fair market value of the property in the Pool at such time by the number of units then in the Pool.

Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Trustee hereunder shall require the trust income for each taxable year to be distributed at such time and in such manner as not to subject the trust to tax under § 4942 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law and shall not engage in any acts of self-dealing (as defined in § 4941(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law); nor shall the Trustee make any taxable expenditures (as defined in § 4945(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law); nor shall the Trustee make any investments which jeopardize the charitable purpose of any gift to the Pool (as defined in § 4944 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law) or retain any excess business holdings (within the meaning of § 4943 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law).

For the purposes of this trust, the term "income" has the same meaning as it does under § 643(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law and regulations thereunder. The term "income" shall mean net income after payment of any expenses of administering the trust. Such expenses shall include reasonable investment management, custodian and like fees and reasonable compensation of the Trustee. The following shall be treated as principal and not as income:

The Trustee shall have all the powers set forth in § 64.1-57 of the Code of Virginia except to the extent limited by this instrument and § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law. The Trustee shall receive compensation for its services based on the rates in effect from time to time at which it is willing to render similar services to others.

This instrument may be and is intended to be incorporated by reference in any will, trust or other instrument whereby property is transferred to the Trustee and an income interest is retained or created for the life of one or more beneficiaries, each of whom is living at the time of transfer. This instrument, together with any such instrument of transfer, shall together be considered the "governing instrument" for such transfer. Any property transferred to the Trustee by will or otherwise whereby an income interest is retained or created for the life of one or more named beneficiaries each of whom is living at the time of transfer, where this instrument is not incorporated by reference, shall be made a part of the Pool and be held, administered and distributed under the terms of this instrument unless the will or other instrument of transfer is inconsistent with such action by the Trustee.

The purpose of the Pool is to create financial reserves for the Institution while, at the same time, affording reasonable returns to individual beneficiaries. It is not the purpose of the Pool to compete with regulated investment companies, commercial annuities or other forms of investment available to the general public. Solicitation of gifts to the Pool shall not be made from the general public, but only from alumni and friends of the Institution. The Institution shall establish and maintain policies from time to time setting forth minimum ages, maximum number of lives of individual income beneficiaries and the minimum donated amounts for participation in the Pool. The Institution shall give prior approval to each gift to the Pool before it is made a part of the Pool.

By executing this instrument the Institution intends to qualify the Pool as a pooled income fund within the meaning of § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law and the regulations thereunder. The provisions hereof should be interpreted in accordance with the regulations and rulings promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to such funds and contributions to them. Otherwise, this instrument shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

WITNESS the following signatures and seals as of the day and year first above written.

INSTRUMENT OF TRANSFER FOR UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POOLED INCOME FUND TRUST GIFT - ONE LIFEWITNESSETH:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, between \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (the Donor), and the UNITED VIRGINIA BANK, a Virginia banking corporation, as Trustee under the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 hereof, (the Trustee).

1\. The Trustee acknowledges receipt of the property listed on Exhibit A attached hereto and having a fair market value as of the date hereof of $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ as an irrevocable gift from the Donor, which property and all additions thereto shall be held, administered and distributed in trust as hereinafter provided.

2\. This gift shall be designated on the books and records of the Trustee as the \[Donor\] Fund (the Fund).

3\. The Donor may at any time make additional contributions to the Fund by deed, gift or will with the consent of the Trustee.

4\. The fund shall become a part of the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund (the Pool) and be held, administered and distributed in accordance with the agreement between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the Institution) and the Trustee dated May \_\_\_\_\_, 1976, creating the Pool, a copy of which agreement is attached hereto and hereby incorporated by reference.

5\. The Donor hereby retains for himself for and during his life an income interest in the property transferred to the Pool. Such income interest shall consist of units of participation in the Pool, and payments of income thereon shall be made in accordance with the agreement attached hereto. Until the Trustee determines that payments shall be made more or less frequently or at other times, the Trustee shall make income payments to the Donor in four quarterly payments on or about March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of the taxable year of the Pool, with an adjusting payment being made, if necessary, during the taxable year or within the first 65 days following its close to bring the total payment to the actual income to which he was entitled for that year, all as more fully provided in Paragraph 8 of the agreement creating the Pool.

6\. Upon the death of the Donor, the Trustee of the Pool shall sever from the Pool an amount equal to the value of the remainder interest in property upon which the income interest is based and transfer it to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia \[alternate clauses - use only one:\]

\[A - principal and income unrestricted\] to be used in such manner as it may direct.

\[B - permanent fund-income unrestricted\] to constitute an endowment fund which shall continue to be known as the \[Donor\] Fund, such Fund to be kept invested by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the annual income thereof used in such manner as it may direct.

\[C - permanent fund-income restricted\] to constitute an endowment fund which shall continue to be known as the \[Donor\] Fund, such Fund to be kept invested by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the annual income thereof used to \[state purpose; for example, faculty salaries, scholarships, etc.\].

7\. The Trustee shall have the power, acting alone, to amend this Agreement in any manner necessary for the sole purpose of insuring that the Fund qualifies as a gift to a pooled income fund within the meaning of § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the assets of the Fund shall not be subject to claims for any Federal, State or other estate, inheritance or succession taxes or duties which may be assessed against the estate of the Donor, and the Donor hereby agrees that any and all such taxes and duties payable with respect to any assets included in the Fund shall be paid out of such assets of the Donor's estate as are subject to administration and not out of the assets of the Fund, and that the Donor shall not make any inconsistent direction in his will.

8\. This Agreement shall be effective only upon execution by the Trustee at its offices in Richmond, Virginia.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands and seals hereto the day and year first above written.

INSTRUMENT OF TRANSFER FOR UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA POOLED INCOME FUND TRUST GIFT - TWO LIVESWITNESSETH:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this \_\_\_\_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 19\_\_\_, between \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (the Donor), and the UNITED VIRGINIA BANK, a Virginia banking corporation, as Trustee under the agreement referred to in paragraph 4 hereof, (the Trustee).

1\. The Trustee acknowledges receipt of the property listed on Exhibit A attached hereto and having a fair market value as of the date hereof of $\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ as an irrevocable gift from the Donor, which property and all additions thereto shall be held, administered and distributed in trust as hereinafter provided.

2\. This gift shall be designated on the books and records of the Trustee as the \[Donor\] Fund (the Fund).

3\. The Donor may at any time make additional contributions to the Fund by deed, gift or will with the consent of the Trustee.

4\. The Fund shall become a part of the University of Virginia Pooled Income Fund (the Pool) and be held, administered and distributed in accordance with the agreement between The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia (the Institution) and the Trustee dated May \_\_\_\_, 1976, creating the Pool, a copy of which agreement is attached hereto and hereby incorporated by reference.

5\. The Donor hereby retains for himself for and during his life an income interest in the property transferred to the Pool. In the event that the Donor's wife, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, survives the Donor, there is hereby retained and created an income interest in such property to commence on the Donor's death for the Donor's wife for and during her life. However, the Donor hereby reserves the right to appoint and direct by his will that the income interest retained or created in such property shall terminate upon his death, whether or not the Donor's wife survives the Donor. Such income interest shall consist of units of participation in the Pool, and payments of income thereon shall be made in accordance with the agreement attached hereto. Until the Trustee determines that payments shall be made more or less frequently or at other times, the Trustee shall make income payments to the Donor (and then to the Donor's wife if the Donor fails to exercise the above power of appointment) in four quarterly payments on or about March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of the taxable year of the Pool, with an adjusting payment being made, if necessary, during the taxable year or within the first 65 days following its close to bring the total payment to the actual income to which he was entitled for that year, all as more fully provided in Paragraph 8 of the agreement creating the Pool.

6\. Upon the death of either the donor or the Donor's wife, whichever is later, or upon the death of the Donor if the Donor exercises his power to terminate the life income interest upon his death, the Trustee of the :Pool shall sever from the Pool an amount equal to the value of the remainder interest in the property upon which the income interest is based and transfer it to The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia \[alternate clauses - use only one:\]

\[A - principal and income unrestricted\] to be used in such manner as it may direct.

\[B - permanent fund-income unrestricted\] to constitute an endowment fund which shall continue to be know as the \[Donor\] Fund, such Fund to be kept invested by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia and the annual income thereof used in such manner as it may direct.

\[C - permanent fund-income restricted\] to constitute an endowment fund which shall continue to be known as the \[Donor\] Fund, such Fund to be kept invested by \[Institution\] and the annual income thereof used to \[state purpose; for example, faculty salaries, scholarships, etc.\].

7\. The Trustee shall have the power, acting alone, to amend this Agreement in any manner necessary for the sole purpose of insuring that the Fund qualifies as a gift to a pooled income fund within the meaning of § 642(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or corresponding provision of any subsequent Federal tax law. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the assets of the Fund shall not be subject to claims for any Federal, State or other estate, inheritance or succession taxes or duties which may be assessed against the estate of the Donor or against any beneficiary hereunder, and the Donor hereby agrees that any and all such taxes and duties payable with respect to any assets included in the Fund shall be paid out of such assets of the Donor's estate as are subject to administration and not out of the assets of the Fund, and that the Donor shall not make any inconsistent direction in his will.

8\. This Agreement shall be effective only upon execution by the Trustee at its offices in Richmond, Virginia.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands and seals hereto the day and year first above written.
