---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1977'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1977) June 4, 1977
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 4, 1977

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES - TENTATIVE Subject to Approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 4, 1977
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:15 a.m., on June 4, 1977, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, William E. Leggett, Lawrence Lewis, Jr., Edwin K. Mattern, George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, and Donald E. Santarelli. Absent: C. Waller Barrett, William M. Dudley, Howard W. McCall, Jr., and Hugh Scott. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Vincent Shea, Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, and John J. Owen were present throughout the meeting.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1978. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: William L. Zimmer, III, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, William E. Leggett, and Lawrence Lewis, Jr.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Affairs CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONSElection of Clinical FacultyElection of Part-time Faculty
------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTION TO CHAIRSTRANSFER OF CHAIRS
------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CORRECTION IN THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS, APRIL 2, 1977
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF DR. MCLEMORE BIRDSONG
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. D. NELSON LIMBER
-----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. MATTHEW HANNA VOLM
-------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE T. MUNFORD BOYD PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
---------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID A. HARRISON PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-----------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HENRY HOYNS PROFESSORSHIP IN CREATIVE WRITING
------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DANIEL CAPLIN PROFESSORSHIP IN LAW
-------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1977-1978 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1977-1978 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1977-1978 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

INCREASE IN GENERAL FACULTY SALARY SCALE
----------------------------------------

Rank

Current

Proposed

Increment

Professor

$17,500

$18,000

$500

Associate Professor

$14,500

$15,000

$500

Assistant Professor

$11,500

$12,000

$500

Instructor

$ 8,400

$ 8,400

$400

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on the status of construction projects. Twelve projects are now in the construction phase.

ELECTION OF MR. SAM I. YARNELL TO THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION FOR THE UNIVERSITY COMPTROLLER, PETER L. MUNGER, TO SIGN CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH AND TRAINING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SALARY SCALES FOR RESEARCH PERSONNEL
------------------------------------

State Funded Positions

Entering Step

Maximum Compensation

Research Assistant A

$ 8,474

$12,000

Research Assistant B

12,000

16,400

Research Associate

12,600

17,150

Senior Astronomy and Physics

Research Assistant

12,600

17,900

Research Statistician A

7,344

10,512

Research Statistician B

9,168

13,128

Research Statistician C

11,472

16,400

Annual increments follow State salary scales. This adjustment provides for a one-step increase in maximum compensation or 4.8 percent.

Sponsored Program Positions

Research Assistant

7,500

15,000

Research Associate

9,000

18,500

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad debts

$150,858.69

Free Service

518,408.79

\------------

Total

$669,267.48

RESOLUTION ON CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
------------------------------------

AMENDMENT TO TIAA/CREF RETIREMENT PLANPlan APlan B
--------------------------------------------------

For those enrolled prior to July 1, 1974, who have elected to change to Plan B.

The University will contribute an amount equal to 15 percent of the member's regular salary above the TIAA salary base ($13,500 for 1977-78 and $14,500 for 1978-79) up to a salary ceiling in effect for the fiscal year. The salary ceiling is established at $31,000 for 1977-78 and $32,000 for 1978-79.

For those enrolled in the 5/10 step funding plan.

The University will contribute an amount equal to 5 percent of the member's regular salary up to the established earnings base and 10 percent of a member's regular salary above the earnings base up to the salary ceiling in effect for the fiscal year. The earnings base is established for 1977-78 at $14,500 and the salary ceiling is established at $31,000 for 1977-78 and $32,000 for 1978-79.

DEPOSIT FOR STUDENTS ACCEPTING ADMISSION IN GRADUATE PROGRAMS, SCHOOL OF NURSING
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

The Legal Adviser, Mr. George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF A BOND ISSUE FOR SPECIAL STATE CAPITAL OUTLAY PROJECTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN ARTS AND SCIENCES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CONTINUATION OF STUDENT PARTICIPATION AS OUTLINED IN RESOLUTIONS OF MAY 28, 1976 AND OCTOBER 14, 1976
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

VEPCO EASEMENT FOR PRIMARY CARE
-------------------------------

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND GRANTS
------------------------------

The President distributed a report compiled March 16, 1977 through May 18, 1977 for gifts totaling $1,476,400, and Sponsored Programs for the period March 1, 1977 through April 30, 1977, with grants totaling $6,488,300. By unanimous vote these were accepted by the Board.

DISCUSSION OF RELATIONSHIP TO ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS
--------------------------------------------------

Mr. Lawrence Lewis led a discussion of the relationship between the University and alumni groups.

DISCUSSION OF SUBJECT MATTER FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Lawrence Lewis led a discussion about matters regularly considered by the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee. He urged that ways should be sought to provide for ample time to discuss these matters fully. He suggested that consideration be given to sub-dividing the Committee as one way to increase the time available.

DISCUSSION OF REQUEST FROM CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE FOR CLOSER ASSOCIATION WITH THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Warren B. French led a discussion about the close association of the Board of Visitors with Clinch Valley College. The President advised that he will invite the Chancellor of Clinch Valley College to meet with the Board on an annual basis.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION TO MR. VINCENT SHEA
----------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR GRADUATE COURSES IN THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuition

Per Semester Hour Tuition

1976-1977

1977-1978

Graduate Courses as part of Off-Campus Degree Programs

$40

$45

SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-ELECTIONS
------------------------------------------

PROMOTION
---------

RESIGNATION
-----------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-APPOINTMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-APPOINTMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-ELECTION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE SCHOOL OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-ELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 12:17 p.m.

RCB:jb
