---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1978'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1978) June 2, 1978
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 2, 1978

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 2, 1978
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 11:07 a.m., on June 2, 1978, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr; and Visitors C. Waller Barrett, William C. Battle, Robert P. Buford, William M. Dudley, Warren B. French, Jr., DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, Howard W. McCall, Jr., George C. Palmer, II, William S. Potter, and Hugh Scott. Absent: William E. Leggett, Stephen C. Mahan, Frank S. Royal, and D. French Slaughter, Jr. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, David A. Shannon, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, Ernest H. Ern, John J. Owen, and William H. Muller were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of April 1, 1978, previously distributed, were approved as corrected.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1979. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Rector William L. Zimmer, III, Chairman, C. Waller Barrett, Robert P. Buford, Warren B. French, Jr., and William E. Leggett.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Affairs CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy Committee
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH C. SMIDDY AS CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONSELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTYELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTYELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF MR. ROBERT F. ALLEN
---------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION OF DR. PHILIP H. COOPER
----------------------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONSRE-ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
-----------------------------------------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENT
----------

ELECTION OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
------------------------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF MR. L. STARLING REID
-----------------------------

DEATH OF MR. RALPH W. CHERRY
----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER PROFESSORSHIP IN GOVERNMENT AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1978-1979 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1978-1979 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF BUDGET FOR THE BLUE RIDGE DIVISION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1978-1979 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE, THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND THE PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN HOSPITAL ROOM RATES
-------------------------------

BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES
---------------------------------------

Nursing Unit

Daily Rate

Tuberculosis

$112

Epilepsy

$129

Obesity

$129

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

Included in a report distributed to the Board were four major projects that are under construction with completion dates in the late summer or fall of 1978. These are the Law School, Phase II, Scott Stadium Expansion, Student Recreation Facilities, and the Primary Care Center Building. In addition, other projects are in the construction or planning stages.

REPORT ON LITIGATION
--------------------

The Legal Adviser, George G. Grattan, IV, presented an information report on litigation in which the University has an interest.

APPROVAL OF THE MASTER OF LAW IN THE PROCESS OF JUSTICE DEGREE PROGRAM
----------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$293,849.69

Free Service to Counties and Cities

625,004.30

\-------------

Total

$918,853.99

APPROVAL OF BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCESARTS AND SCIENCES BUDGET FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1978-79SCHOOL OF MEDICINE BUDGET FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1978-79
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Total

Student Support:

Graduate

23,400

14,500

52,000

63,200

153,100

Undergraduate

6,500

6,500

Faculty Salary

Supplement

7,000

3,500

30,000

1,500

42,000

Equipment

62,000

88,000

\-

121,000

271,000

TOTAL

92,400

112,500

82,000

185,700

472,600

In June 1977

Amount previously approved by Bd. of Visitors

174,000

115,150

80,000

150,000

519,150

1977-78

1978-79

1979-80

Total

Research:

Eukaryotic DNA Synthesis

15,000

15,000

Support of Graduate Research Assistants

40,000

40,000

Respiratory Muscle Function in Obesity

36,000

36,000

Support of Dr. Darrel Bigner

50,000

50,000

Equipment for a P-3 Facility

150,000

150,000

In Vivo and in Vitro Study of Neoplastic Transformation of Glial Cells

27,000

27,000

Identification, Characterization, and Importance of Bacterial Adherence and Platelet Aggregation in Pathogenesis of Bacterial Endocarditis

20,000

20,000

Radionuclide Imagining Ischemic and Infarcted Myocardium

40,000

40,000

TOTAL

378,000

378,000

Amount previously approved by Board of Visitors: Oct. 1977

105,000

45,000

150,000

Jan. 1978

336,046

109,715

25,000

470,761

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is $678,478 to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine; in addition there is a one time allocation of income accumulated before the disbursement program was established of approximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsTotalStudent Support:Graduate23,40014,50052,00063,200153,100Undergraduate6,5006,500Faculty SalarySupplement7,0003,50030,0001,50042,000Equipment62,00088,000-121,000271,000TOTAL92,400112,50082,000185,700472,600In June 1977Amount previously approved by Bd. of Visitors174,000115,15080,000150,000519,150

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is $678,478 to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine; in addition there is a one time allocation of income accumulated before the disbursement program was established of approximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

1977-781978-791979-80TotalResearch:Eukaryotic DNA Synthesis15,00015,000Support of Graduate Research Assistants40,00040,000Respiratory Muscle Function in Obesity36,00036,000Support of Dr. Darrel Bigner50,00050,000Equipment for a P-3 Facility150,000150,000In Vivo and in Vitro Study of Neoplastic Transformation of Glial Cells27,00027,000Identification, Characterization, and Importance of Bacterial Adherence and Platelet Aggregation in Pathogenesis of Bacterial Endocarditis20,00020,000Radionuclide Imagining Ischemic and Infarcted Myocardium40,00040,000TOTAL378,000378,000Amount previously approved by Board of Visitors: Oct. 1977105,00045,000150,000Jan. 1978336,046109,71525,000470,761

RESOLUTION ON BONDS FOR EXECUTIVE CENTER HOUSING AND COPELEY HILL GRADUATE HOUSING - PHASE IV
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Project

Amount

Executive Center Housing

$715,000

Copeley Hill Graduate Housing - Phase IV

$640,000

and

UNIVERSITY POLICY ON CAMPAIGNING FOR AND SERVING IN AN ELECTED PUBLIC OFFICEPOLICY ON CAMPAIGNING FOR AND SERVING IN AN ELECTED PUBLIC OFFICE FACULTYCLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Members of the faculty are in no way precluded by their relationship with the University from normal political activities but while they are in full-time status, it is understood that the activities related to their academic appointments will have first claim on their time and energy. It should at all times be made clear that political positions assumed by members of the faculty are personal, and do not necessarily, or even inferentially, reflect any position taken by the University of Virginia.

Members of the faculty may from time to time be invited to perform public service in an appointive capacity, at the national state, or local level. The University encourages them to render this type of service, believing that it is in its own interest that they should do so. It shall be the responsibility of the individual's Dean and of the Provost to determine whether the performance of this service will make sufficient demands on his time and energy to require a modification of his duty status, and, if some form of leave of absence is indicated, to determine whether any portion of this leave should be with pay. Leave will ordinarily be taken if the individual's outside activities may reasonably be expected to require either more of his time than would customarily be allowed for consulting activity or protracted absences from Charlottesville.

The Attorney General ruled in 1971 that faculty members do not hold office under the government of the Commonwealth.

The Constitution of Virginia, however, in Article IV, section 4, sets a standard: No person holding a salaried office under the government of the Commonwealth, and no judge of any court, attorney for the Commonwealth, sheriff, treasurer, assessor of taxes, commissioner of the revenue, collector of taxes, or clerk of any court shall be a member of either house of the General Assembly during his continuance in office; and his qualification as a member shall vacate any such office held by him. which may be useful as a guide for faculty and staff in considering the level of permissible participation in public affairs. The current provision of the Constitution is carried over from the earlier constitutional provision and was the subject of serious and informed consideration by the Commission on Constitutional Revision, which consisted of distinguished public officials and educators. The problems of interpretation are manifold; interested persons are referred to pages 128-130 of the summary of the deliberations of the Commission on Constitutional Revision, and to pages 479-485 of Mr. A. E. Dick Howard's treatise on the 1971 Constitution of Virginia. Still, the constitutional rule amplified by these discussions represents the best available statement of the principles which should guide both the administration and the faculty and staff members in determining, in individual cases, the proper level of participation in public affairs.

Faculty members who choose to become candidates for elective public office on the state or national level will be expected to take leave of absence without pay for the period of their campaigns, in both primary and general elections. If elected, they will be expected to take leave of absence without pay for any semester during which the performance of their duties will require them to be absent from Charlottesville for substantial periods. If the duties or activities associated with his office can be performed in Charlottesville, but may reasonably be expected to require more of his time than is customarily allowed for consulting Activities, a faculty member must assume part-time status at the University, at a level to be determined by his Dean and the Provost of the University.

In contrast with candidacy for state and national offices, candidacy for local offices, such as membership on a City Council or a County Board of Supervisors, is ordinarily less time consuming, as is service on either of these bodies. If campaigning and service time can be limited to what would customarily be allowed for consulting activity, the faculty member may remain in full-time status with the University. If his political activities require more of his time than that, it shall be the responsibility of his Dean and of the Provost to determine whether he should be required to take leave of absence or to accept a reduced teaching and/or research load, with corresponding adjustment in the level of his compensation.

A faculty member who receives a salary supplement for the performance of administrative duties must take leave of absence from his administrative position during any election campaign in which he is a candidate, and, if elected, must resign his administrative position when his term in the elected office begins. In other respects, such persons will be governed by the same policies which have been defined above.

Classified employees of the University are free to engage in all forms of political activity which do not interfere with the performance of the duties of their positions. If they choose to become candidates for elective office (e.g., membership in the General Assembly, the City Council, or the County Board of Supervisors), they will be expected to limit campaigning to off-duty hours, and any campaign activity in which they may engage during working hours will be chargeable to annual leave or leave without pay. Supervisors are encouraged to apply as liberal a policy as is consistent with maintaining the efficiency of the unit's operations toward the granting of annual leave or leave without pay and the adjustment of work schedules to enable the employee to conduct his campaign, and to serve in the office, if elected.

If a classified employee becomes a member of the General Assembly, he must assume leave status (either annual leave or leave without pay) during the time while the Assembly is in session. If he is called upon to perform duties or to exercise the functions of a member of the General Assembly at times when the Assembly is not in session, he must limit these activities to time outside University duty hours, or to time made available for them by his supervisor either by the granting of annual leave or leave without pay or by adjustment of work schedules.

If a classified employee becomes a member of a City Council or of a County Board of Supervisors, he may ordinarily continue in his employment at the University, provided that the duties of the office to which he has been elected can normally be performed outside regular University duty hours. Duty time spent on any activities incident to his Council or Board membership will be charged to annual leave or leave without pay, unless adjustments in his work schedule can be made which, in the judgment of his supervisor, will not impair the efficiency of his unit's operations.

LAMBETH LANE EASEMENT
---------------------

REVISED UNIVERSITY AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN FOR EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President distributed a list of gifts received by the University during the period March 1, 1978, through April 30, 1978. These gifts totaled $827,900. Of this sum, $196,100 was contributed by individual donors, $202,300 by corporations, $67,400 by other donors, and $362,100 by University related Foundations. The Board accepted these gifts with grateful appreciation to the donors.

Also reported was the sum of $5,331,000 to support sponsored programs at the University of Virginia. These awards were received during the period of March 1, 1978, through April 30, 1978.

REPORT FROM THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO IMPROVE COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE BOARD AND THE STUDENT BODY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. George Palmer, Chairman of the Special Committee, reported that the Committee has completed its study of a letter to the Board from Mr. Stefan Underhill and Miss Mary Pat Morrissey, dated January 4, 1978. The Board referred the requests to the Special Committee at its regular meeting held January 28, 1978.

In this letter, it was requested that a written copy of the tentative agenda of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee be furnished to the Student Council President one week prior to each meeting, it being understood that last minute items may be added before the meeting. The Board, upon recommendation of the Special Committee agreed to furnish a copy of the tentative agenda of the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee meeting to the Student Council President one week before each meeting as requested.

The letter of January 4 further requested that the Student Council officers be permitted to discuss specific items of the agenda with the Student Council as a whole. With respect to this request, the Board, on recommendation of the Special Committee, determined that the policies now in effect with respect to the discussion of agenda items be continued. The discussion revealed that substantial student input has been considered in most of these matters well before they are brought for final action to the Board, and that there is extensive and effective student participation in the administrative committee structure of the University.

DISCUSSION OF THE HONOR SYSTEM
------------------------------

The Board continued a discussion of the Honor System begun at the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee meeting on June 1. At the Committee meeting, incoming Honor Committee Chairman John Richardson had distributed an analysis of a poll of faculty opinion on certain aspects of the system.

Mrs. Holton raised a question about the effectiveness of the procedures in use for the honor orientation of teaching assistants, since Mr. Richardson had reported that problems for the Honor Committee were being generated by some inadequately oriented teaching assistants. She suggested that these procedures might be looked into by the administration.

The President gave assurance that the administration will cooperate fully with the Honor Committee, but he said that the Honor system is a student system, and he is reluctant to take any action which might make it appear that honor procedures are being imposed by the faculty or administration.

ANNOUNCEMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE GRAVES MOUNTAIN LODGE CONFERENCE, SEPTEMBER 12 and 13, 1978
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. George Palmer reminded the Board that on May 28, 1976, the Board approved guidelines that include "Members of the Board will, insofar as is possible, attend the annual fall conference customarily held at Graves Mountain Lodge." He advised that the conference will be held this year on Tuesday and Wednesday, September 12 and 13, 1978, at Graves Mountain Lodge.

DISCUSSION OF THE UNIVERSITY'S MANDATORY RETIREMENT POLICY
----------------------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGERE-ELECTION OF MR. JOSEPH C. SMIDDY as CHANCELLOR OF CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONELECTION
----------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-APPOINTMENT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LYNCHBURG REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONAPPOINTMENT
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-APPOINTMENT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-ELECTIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATIONRE-ELECTION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT
-----------

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:19 p.m.

RCB:jb

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN FOR EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (REVISED 1978) June 1, 1978TABLE OF CONTENTSI. REAFFIRMATION OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICYII. DISSEMINATION OF POLICYA. Internal DisseminationB. External DisseminationIII. RESPONSIBILITY FOR POLICY IMPLEMENTATIONIV. EMPLOYEE WORK FORCE ANALYSESA. Work Force AnalysisB. Availability Analysis1. Instructional Faculty.2. Non-instructional employees.C. Utilization AnalysisUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EMPLOYMENT ANALYSIS Table 1 - Instructional FacultyUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EMPLOYMENT ANALYSIS Table 2 - Non-instructional EmployeesAvailability Pools - Source ReferencesTable 1 - Instructional FacultyTable 2 - Non-instructional EmployeesV. SUMMARY OF GOALS AND TIMETABLESVI. ACTION ORIENTED PROGRAMSVII. INTERNAL REVIEW AND REPORTING SYSTEMS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Academic Area

% Female

% Minority

% Black

Architecture

21

11

6

Arts and Sciences

20

4

2

Commerce

6

5

2

Graduate Business

6

5

2

Education

26

11

8

Engineering

1

5

1

Law

9

6

4

Medicine

10

7

4

Nursing

97

8

6

Labor Force

Total

% Female

% Minority

% Black

State of Virginia

2,306,000

39.9

18.9

17.6

Charlottesville-Albemarle

64,430

39.3

19.2

18.5

EEO Category

% Female

% Minority

% Black

Executive/Admin./Mgr.

21

4

4

Professional

28

7

5

Clerical/Secretarial

75

7

7

Technical/Para-Prof.

58

8

8

Skilled Crafts

4

11

11

Service/Maint.

47

41

41

Utilization

Availability Pools (Goals)

Additional Individuals Indicated

Numeric Goals

Divisions

Total

% Fem.

% Min.

% Blk.

% Fem.

% Min.

% Blk.

Fem.

Min.

Blk.

Fem.

Min.

Blk.

Architecture

34

6

0

0

21a

11a

6a

7

4

2

5

4

2

Arts & Sciences

525

12

4

2

20b

4c

2c

105

21

11

44

2

1

Commerce

27

7

4

2

6d

5e

2e

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Grad. Business

41

5

2

2

6d

5e

2e

\-

2

\-

\-

1

\-

Education

114

25

4

4

26f

11c

8c

30

13

9

2

8

4

Engineering

108

1

2

0

1f

5c

1c

\-

5

1

\-

3

1

Law

45

4

2

2

9g

6g

4g

4

3

2

2

2

1

Medicine

359

13

4

1/2

10h

7h

4h

\-

25

14

\-

10

13

Nursing

58

93

0

0

97i

8j

6j

56

5

3

2

5

3

Total

1311

15

3

1

Note: Minority includes Blacks

Utilization

Availability Pools (Goals)

Numeric Goals

Additional Individuals Indicated

EEO Category

Total

% Fem.

% Min.

% Blk.

% Fem.

% Min.

% Blk.

Fem.

Min.

Blk.

Fem.

Min.

Blk.

Exec/Adm/Mgr

389

33

4

3

21k

4k

4k

\-

16

15

\-

\-

3

Professional

1376

75

5

2

281

71

51

\-

96

69

\-

30

36

Clerical/Secretarial

1667

92

13

12

75m

7m

7m

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Technical/Para-Prof.

690

67

28

27

58n

8n

8n

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Skilled Crafts

387

4

13

13

4m

11m

11m

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Service/Maint.

1038

55

59

56

47m

41m

41m

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

\-

Total

5547

67

21

19

Note: Minority includes Blacks

The University of Virginia does not discriminate with regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation, handicap, sex or age in either education or employment. Programs of affirmative action to assure equality of opportunity for education and employment have been in effect here for many years, and have been steadily improved.

By action of the Governor of Virginia on January 31, 1978, through Executive Order Number One, the policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia was stated as follows: "It is the policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia that employees of the Commonwealth and applicants for employment shall be afforded equal opportunity in all aspects of personnel management without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation, handicap, sex or age." The policy of the Commonwealth of Virginia was endorsed and approved by the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia on April 1, 1978. Executive Order Number One, the Procedures for Implementing Executive Order Number One and the resolution of the University's Board of Visitors are included in this plan as Appendix A.

On March 18, 1978, the Governor of Virginia submitted to the Office for Civil Rights, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, The Virginia Plan for Equal Opportunity in State-Supported Institutions of Higher Education (Revised 1978). The submission of The Virginia Plan by the Governor was subject to the review and consideration by individual institutions' Board of Visitors. On April 1, 1978, the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia agreed to participate in The Virginia Plan in accordance with interpretations consistent with The Virginia Plan's applicability to the University of Virginia. The Virginia Plan and Board of Visitors resolution are included in this plan as Appendix B.

The University's plan for affirmative action and equal opportunity in education and employment, therefore, includes the Policy and Procedures promulgated by Executive Order Number One, as well as applicable parts of The Virginia Plan for Equal Opportunity in State-Supported Institutions of Higher Education (Revised 1978).

The Executive Vice President is responsible to the President of the University for execution of all equal opportunity policies. The Administrator of Equal Opportunity Programs is responsible for developing, disseminating information on, assisting in the administration of, and reporting on the progress of equal opportunity programs throughout the University. The Director of Institutional Analysis is responsible for the development and production of numerical data for official reports and analyses relating to equal opportunity at the University.

June 1, 1978.

The University's equal employment opportunity policy statement will be distributed to all University employees. Copies will be provided to new employees at orientation sessions and posted on prominent bulletin boards throughout University facilities. Annually it will be published in University communications media. It will also be published in all University employee handbooks.

In the local community the University Director of Personnel will provide the policy statement to such recruitment sources as: educational institutions, local government, community action groups, minority and women's organizations and Chamber of Commerce officials.

The University of Virginia has notified and will continue to notify all prospective employees of its equal employment opportunity policy by posting notices in the personnel offices as well as in other conspicuous locations so that they will have information to avail themselves of its benefits.

All University catalogs, program brochures, and other printed materials describing the academic programs of the University will contain the policy statement.

All help-wanted advertising will contain the clause, "an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer."

A. The ultimate responsibility for equal employment compliance rests with the President as Chief Executive Officer of the University of Virginia. Responsibility and authority for administration of the affirmative action plan has been delegated to the Executive Vice President.

B. This responsibility shall include but not be limited to the following: 1. Initiate efforts to recruit, appoint, retain and upgrade qualified minorities and women at all levels of employment.2. Counsel University management concerning the need for their personal attention to EEO in order to reach the objective of providing an atmosphere of non-discrimination and equal opportunity within the University.3. Carry out the intent and spirit of the affirmative action plan by insuring that all managers, supervisors, and employees are aware of their responsibilities.4. Familiarize officials, managers and supervisors with provisions of the Civil Rights laws and Executive Orders pertaining to affirmative action.

C. The Administrator of Equal Opportunity Programs is responsible for developing, disseminating information on, assisting in the administration of, and reporting on the progress of equal opportunity programs throughout the University.

D. The Director of Institutional Analysis is responsible for the development and production of numerical data for official reports and analyses relating to equal opportunity at the University.

E. Advice concerning the legal aspects of this program is the responsibility of the Attorney General's Office. (Pursuant to Section 2.1-121 of the Code of Virginia.)

Requirements for employment as a full-time faculty member at the University typically include the attainment of a doctoral degree in a particular academic area. In the schools of Architecture, Nursing and Law, a doctoral degree may not be required, but a masters degree or J.D. degree is generally required.

The University of Virginia recruits faculty from national pools. Thus the female and minority availability pools for instructional faculty contained in this plan are based upon recent national degree productivity data. The availability percentages by academic area for females, minorities, and blacks are as follows: Academic Area% Female% Minority% BlackArchitecture21116Arts and Sciences2042Commerce652Graduate Business652Education26118Engineering151Law964Medicine1074Nursing9786

The University of Virginia is by far the largest employer in the Charlottesville-Albemarle and surrounding county area. The following information concerning the labor force composition appears in Manpower Information for Affirmative Action Programs, State of Virginia, 1976: Labor ForceTotal% Female% Minority% BlackState of Virginia2,306,00039.918.917.6Charlottesville-Albemarle64,43039.319.218.5

Except for the two EEO categories, Executive/Administrative/Managers and Professional, non-instructional employees are hired predominately from the Charlottesville-Albemarle and surrounding county area. Executive/Administrative/Managers are recruited from national availability pools, while Professionals are recruited from state availability pools. Educational requirements for these two categories generally include a bachelor's degree and may, in addition, require graduate education or professional certification. The availability percentages for non-instructional employees by EEO category for females, minorities and blacks are tabulated as follows: EEO Category% Female% Minority% BlackExecutive/Admin./Mgr.2144Professional2875Clerical/Secretarial7577Technical/Para-Prof.5888Skilled Crafts41111Service/Maint.474141

On the basis of the preceding Work Force Analysis and Availability Analysis, the University has determined where utilization of females, minorities and blacks is less than the proportion in the relevant labor market area for both instructional faculty and non-instructional employees. This analysis is displayed in Table 1 for instructional faculty by academic division and in Table 2 for non-instructional employees by EEO category. Source references for each availability percentage are also provided.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EMPLOYMENT ANALYSIS Table 1 - Instructional FacultyUtilizationAvailability Pools (Goals)Additional Individuals IndicatedNumeric GoalsDivisionsTotal% Fem.% Min.% Blk.% Fem.% Min.% Blk.Fem.Min.Blk.Fem.Min.Blk.Architecture3460021a11a6a742542Arts & Sciences525124220b4c2c10521114421Commerce277426d5e2e------Grad. Business415226d5e2e-2--1-Education114254426f11c8c30139284Engineering1081201f5c1c-51-31Law454229g6g4g432221Medicine3591341/210h7h4h-2514-1013Nursing58930097i8j6j5653253Total13111531Note: Minority includes Blacks

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA EMPLOYMENT ANALYSIS Table 2 - Non-instructional EmployeesUtilizationAvailability Pools (Goals)Numeric GoalsAdditional Individuals IndicatedEEO CategoryTotal% Fem.% Min.% Blk.% Fem.% Min.% Blk.Fem.Min.Blk.Fem.Min.Blk.Exec/Adm/Mgr389334321k4k4k-1615--3Professional137675522817151-9669-3036Clerical/Secretarial166792131275m7m7m------Technical/Para-Prof.69067282758n8n8n------Skilled Crafts387413134m11m11m------Service/Maint.103855595647m41m41m------Total5547672119Note: Minority includes Blacks

It should be understood that no objective established in this plan shall in any way constitute a quota and that it shall not be treated as such. Moreover, it shall not be interpreted to require the hiring of a person who is not qualified or the hiring of a less qualified person in preference to a person who is more qualified.

The commitment to attempt to increase the number of female, minority and black employees in the University of Virginia is just that--a pledge to action. As such, the University's commitment means only that a good faith effort will be undertaken to meet these objectives.

The University, through its Board of Visitors, shall retain sole authority and responsibility for the employment policies of the University, subject to the limitations of applicable law.

The University of Virginia shall continue actively to seek, hire, and retain qualified female, minority and black employees. Specific action oriented programs now being carried out by the University and relating to all aspects of personnel management are contained in the Procedures for Implementing Executive Order Number One (Appendix A). These procedures, including the action oriented programs, were approved by the Board of Visitors of the University by resolution dated April 1, 1978. They are applicable to recruitment, selection, placement, training, promotion and terminations.
