---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1980'
month: 6
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1980) June 7, 1980
=============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

June 7, 1980

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA BOARD OF VISITORS ANNOTATED MINUTES (Tentative) June 7, 1980
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As authorized by Section 2.1-344 of the Code of Virginia, and on advice of the Legal Adviser, the tentative Minutes released to the public omit salary information.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA June 7, 1980
------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 9:00 a.m., in Open Session on June 6, 1980, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and C. Clarke Cunningham, William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Stephen C. Mahan and Frank W. Royal. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, and David A. Shannon were present throughout the meeting. Messrs. Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, and John J. Owen were absent from the meeting.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on June 7, 1980, in the Dome Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and Visitors C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Mrs. Linwood Holton, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Frank S. Royal, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Stephen C. Mahan. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, William H. Muller, and John J. Owen were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of March 22, 1980, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
--------------------------------

The Rector introduced Mr. C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., who began his term on the Board on March 1, 1980, but was unable to attend the March 22nd meeting of the Board.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Meeting continued at 10:45 a.m., June 7.

ELECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

As required by Section 23-75 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, and as provided in Section 3.1 of the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, the Rector called for the election by the Board of the Members of the Executive Committee to serve until the next Annual Meeting in June 1981. The following persons were unanimously elected to the Executive Committee: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., Chairman, William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, George C. Palmer, II, and Carl W. Smith.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeStudent Affairs and Athletics CommitteeHealth Affairs CommitteeBuildings and Grounds CommitteeEducational Policy CommitteeAudit Committee
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE JUNE 1981 MEETING DATE
--------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

CORRECTION IN THE TERM OF THE CHANGE OF TITLE OF MR. KENNETH E. PEACOCK
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

RETIREMENT
----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DEATH OF MR. ROBERT G. DIXON, JR.
---------------------------------

SALE OF AND INVESTMENT OF THE PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF THE VOLM PROPERTY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION ON AFFILIATION AGREEMENT WITH THE VIRGINIA HEALTH SERVICES FOUNDATION
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FRANK S. KAULBACK, JR., PROFESSORSHIP IN COMMERCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1980-1981 UNIVERSITY BUDGET
-------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1980-1981 UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL BUDGET
----------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1980-1981 BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION BUDGET
-------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE 1980-1981 BUDGETS FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE AND THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE BUREAUS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES
-------------------------------------------------------

INCREASE IN BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES
---------------------------------------------------

Daily Rate

Amount of

Percent of

Proposed

Nursing Unit

1979-80

Amount of

Percent of

Proposed

Tuberculosis

$120

$ 8

6.7%

$128

Epilepsy

$138

$10

7.2%

$148

Diabetes

$ 90

$10

11.1%

$100

Nutrition/Obesity

$ 60

$ 5

8.3%

$ 65

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 577,267.88

Free Service to Counties & Cities

976,390.80

\----------------

Total

$1,553,658.68

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Free Service to Counties & Cities

679,043.15

APPROVAL OF BUDGET OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATE FOR SPECIFIED DEPARTMENTS IN THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE AND ARTS AND SCIENCESARTS AND SCIENCES BUDGET PROPOSAL FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1980-81SCHOOL OF MEDICINE BUDGET PROPOSAL FOR PRATT BEQUEST Fiscal Year 1980-81
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biology

Chemistry

Mathematics

Physics

Total

Student Support:

Graduate and undergraduate

45,700

60,900

30,000

136,600

Faculty Salary

Supplement

2,000

4,000

20,000

26,000

Equipment

58,300

79,700

59,000

197,000

TOTAL

106,000

83,700

80,900

89,000

359,600

Amount previously approved by Board of Visitors:

6/2/79

81,300

171,000

28,700

89,000

370,000

6/2/78

92,400

112,500

82,000

185,700

472,600

6/4/77

174,000

115,150

80,000

150,000

519,150

1980-81

Total

Research:

A Computer Technology Resource for the Medical Center

25,000

25,000

Studies of Insulin Responsiveness of Cultured Fibroblasts from Diabetic Patients

14,580

14,580

Clinical and Neurobiological Research Program

18,000

18,000

Support of Graduate Research Assistants

85,000

85,000

Evaluation of Chronic Gradually Developing Pressure Overloaded Cardiac Hypertrophy

15,000

15,000

Protein Phosphatoses Associated with SER in Normal and Diabetic Liver

13,350

13,350

Temperature Control, 02 Consumption, and Respiratory Control in Preterm Infants. Implications for Apnea of Prematurity and SIDS

16,000

16,000

Development of Clinical Research Design and Analysis Laboratory

7,500

7,500

Support of the Neuroscience Program

50,000

50,000

Nucleic Acid and Protein Sequencing Facility

125,000

125,000

Purchase of Liquid Scintillation Counter

16,900

16,900

Support of a New Research Program and Development of a Core Hematology/Oncology Research Lab

20,000

20,000

Image Analysis System

41,800

41,800

Mass Spectrometer Facility

5,800

5,800

Establishment of a Developmental Biology Program

40,000

40,000

Total

493,930

493,930

Total

Budget Proposal for 1980-81

493,930

Amount Previously approved by the Board of Visitors: June 1979

362,940

June 1978

378,000

Jan 1978

470,761

Oct 1977

150,000

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds of the four departments in Arts and Sciences. The four departments designated in the Will were Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics; and the funds could be used in three categories displayed in the budget, scholarships for outstanding students, supplementation of faculty salaries, and equipment. The annual disbursement of the estate is $678,478 to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine; in addition, there is a one time allocation of income accumulated before the disbursement program was established of approximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

BiologyChemistryMathematicsPhysicsTotalStudent Support:Graduate and undergraduate45,70060,90030,000136,600Faculty SalarySupplement2,0004,00020,00026,000Equipment58,30079,70059,000197,000TOTAL106,00083,70080,90089,000359,600Amount previously approved by Board of Visitors:6/2/7981,300171,00028,70089,000370,0006/2/7892,400112,50082,000185,700472,6006/4/77174,000115,15080,000150,000519,150

The Special Advisory Committee of the Center for Advanced Studies has approved the following budget for the Pratt funds in the School of Medicine. In accordance with the Will, funds may be used by the School of Medicine for scholarships for medical students and research. The annual disbursement of the estate is $678,478 to be divided equally between Arts and Sciences and Medicine; in addition, there is a one time allocation of income accumulated before the disbursement program was established of approximately $750,000 to be equally divided.

1980-81TotalResearch:A Computer Technology Resource for the Medical Center25,00025,000Studies of Insulin Responsiveness of Cultured Fibroblasts from Diabetic Patients14,58014,580Clinical and Neurobiological Research Program18,00018,000Support of Graduate Research Assistants85,00085,000Evaluation of Chronic Gradually Developing Pressure Overloaded Cardiac Hypertrophy15,00015,000Protein Phosphatoses Associated with SER in Normal and Diabetic Liver13,35013,350Temperature Control, 02 Consumption, and Respiratory Control in Preterm Infants. Implications for Apnea of Prematurity and SIDS16,00016,000Development of Clinical Research Design and Analysis Laboratory7,5007,500Support of the Neuroscience Program50,00050,000Nucleic Acid and Protein Sequencing Facility125,000125,000Purchase of Liquid Scintillation Counter16,90016,900Support of a New Research Program and Development of a Core Hematology/Oncology Research Lab20,00020,000Image Analysis System41,80041,800Mass Spectrometer Facility5,8005,800Establishment of a Developmental Biology Program40,00040,000Total493,930493,930 TotalBudget Proposal for 1980-81493,930Amount Previously approved by the Board of Visitors: June 1979362,940June 1978378,000Jan 1978470,761Oct 1977150,000

ELECTION OF MR. HOWARD W. MCCALL, JR., AS A MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL OF THE WHITE BURKETT MILLER CENTER OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed. The report was discussed at the meeting of the Buildings and Grounds Committee on June 6, 1980.

Projects completed and projects with expected completion dates in 1980 include renovation and improvements to the Central Heating Plant, Scott Stadium expansion, a Parking Garage near the Primary Care Center, renovation of research spaces for Biology and Physics, University Hall roof repairs, Lambeth Field parking lot and bridge, the repair of fire damage in Memorial Gymnasium, the replacement of roofs on Zehmer Hall and the Highway Research Council Building, and the landscaping of the Student Recreation Building.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE AUTHORIZATION FOR THE SALE OF BONDS FOR THE FINANCING OF THE PROPOSED TELEPHONE SYSTEM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the action of the Executive Committee on April 23, 1980, regarding the Financing of the Proposed Telephone System. He reported that 18 month anticipation notes were issued on May 8, 1980. Intermediate financing will be negotiated during the 18 month period of the notes.

REVISED PROCEDURE FOR COMMUNICATION WITH THE ATHLETIC ADVISORY COUNCIL
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The President explained that the October 16, 1976 resolution calling for annual meetings of the entire Athletic Advisory Council with the Student Affairs and Athletics Committee resulted in logistic problems in scheduling the meetings. He recommended a modification of the resolution.

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND GRANTS
------------------------------

The Board accepted $631,200 in gifts for the period March 1, 1980, through April 30, 1980, and $8,880,600 in sponsored programs for the period February 1, 1980, through April 30, 1980. The grand total was $9,511,800 for the periods indicated, and $41,397,800 for the period July 1, 1979, through April 30, 1980.

INCREASE IN LATE REGISTRATION, LATE PAYMENT, AND BAD CHECK FEES
---------------------------------------------------------------

1979-80

1980-81

Late Registration (Payment) Fee

$10.00

$25.00

Late Payment Fee

2.00

5.00

Bad Check Charge

5.00

10.00

REPORT OF THE SERVICE SUPPORT UNITS BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
-------------------------------------------------------

Staff/Faculty and Non-University Debts

Parking and Transportation

$15,118.74

Other

5,079.15

Student Debts

Parking and Transportation

13,838.80

Other

7,817.61

\-------------

Total

$41,854.30

APPROVAL OF THE BAD DEBTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------

Student Loans - No. 40

$ 934.67

Tuition and Required Fees - No. 41

14,691.85

\------------

Total

$15,626.52

ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR DEBT SERVICE, CAPITAL OUTLAY, AND OTHER PURPOSES
------------------------------------------------------------------------

A. Designation of Funds for Retirement of Indebtedness:

1\. To provide principal and interest due on Southern Welding Property

$31,390.00

2\. To provide principal and interest on Birdwood Property

4,644.00

B. Designation of miscellaneous capital outlay projects

4,737.67

APPROVAL OF DEGREE PROGRAMS
---------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (1980 Revision)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RESOLUTION FOR EXECUTIVE SESSION OF THE BOARD
---------------------------------------------

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------

PROMOTION
---------

RESIGNATION
-----------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSELECTION
------------------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

CENTRAL VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

HAMPTON ROADS REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

LYNCHBURG REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

NORTHERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPOINTMENT
-----------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

RICHMOND REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

ROANOKE REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA REGIONAL OFFICE OF THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERSRE-ELECTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-APPOINTMENT
--------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 11:19 a.m.

RCB;AGG:jb
