---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1981'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1981) March 27, 1981
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 27, 1981

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 27, 1981
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 10:30 a.m., in Open Session on March 26, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Howard W. McCall, Jr., and Frank S. Royal. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, Ernest H. Ern, and William H. Muller were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on March 27, 1981, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector D. French Slaughter, Jr., President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., William M. Dudley, DuPont Guerry, III, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr. Mrs. Linwood Holton, Stephen C. Mahan, Howard W. McCall, Jr., David N. Montague, George C. Palmer, II, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine. Absent: Frank S. Royal. Messrs. George G. Grattan, IV, Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Avery Catlin, David A. Shannon, William H. Muller, Ernest H. Ern, and John J. Owen were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 31, 1981, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the full Board go into Executive Session for the discussion of legal matters.(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee go into Executive Session for the discussion or consideration of the disposition of publicly held property, and for the discussion of the investing of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved.(c) That the Educational Policy Committee go into Executive Session for the discussion and consideration of personnel matters involving the assignment, promotion, salaries and resignation of public employees.(d) That the Finance Committee go into Executive Session for the discussion of the investment of private funds where competition and bargaining is involved, for the consideration of matters relating to gifts, bequests, and fund raising activities, and for the discussion or consideration of the disposition of publicly held property.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Opening Session continued at 2:07 P.M., on March 27, 1981.

SALE OF LEADER PROPERTY
-----------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the sale by the University of the remaining portion of Lot 35 under the Leader, Incorporated store at 515 Market Street, Chattanooga, Tennessee, to the Leader Company, Incorporated, as evidenced by the Real Estate Sales Agreement, dated February 10, 1981, as amended by letter agreement, dated March 5, 1981, and the actions of the Vice President for Business and Finance and the University Comptroller in connection with such sale be, and they are hereby, confirmed and ratified.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE STUDENT HEALTH BUILDING
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Morrissette, Cederquist, Bondurant and Associates of Norfolk, in association with Metcalf Associates of Washington, D. C., be and it is hereby selected as architects for the Student Health Building.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE DARDEN RESEARCH CENTER
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Hartman-Cox, Architects of Washington, D. C., be and it is hereby selected as architects for the Darden Research Center.

SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS FOR THE CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER CONFERENCE WING AND CHILDREN'S REHABILITATION CENTER OUTPATIENT ADDITION, PHASE II
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the firm of Smith, Armstrong, Landow, of Charlottesville, be and it is hereby appointed as architects for the Children's Rehabilitation Center Conference Wing and the Children's Rehabilitation Center Outpatient Addition, Phase II.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Joseph V. Anderson as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Roger L. Anderson as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William R. Baumgartner as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Samuel A. Bleicher as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Ms. Virginia L. Bower as Lecturer in Art, for one month, effective October 1, 1980.Mr. Kuang-Chao Chou as Visiting Professor of Physics, for one month, effective April 1, 1981.Mrs. Ann D. Dunn as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1981.Dr. Raymond B. Dyer as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert W. Fraser as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Gail T. Galasko as Visiting Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1981 through February 28, 1981.Mr. John M. Gwin as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert C. Hagwood as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Research Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period January 16, 1981 through August 31, 1982.Miss Jane F. Johnson as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture School of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Carl Lynch, III as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Thomas A. Massaro as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Carol Muske as Lecturer in English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Miss Pamela J. Naish as Instructor in Chemistry, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Michael E. Northrup as Assistant Professor of Art, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Dr. Robert C. Patten as Assistant Professor of Family Practice, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective October 1, 1980.Mr. Marion B. Peavey as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective April 1, 1981.Mr. William L. Rickards, III as Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective June 1, 1981.Mrs. Vanessa D. Saunders as Acting Assistant Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mohammed Sawaie as Assistant Professor of Arabic, for the period January 16, 1981 through May 31, 1982.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. James R. Skinner as Instructor in Surgery, for the period January 6, 1981 through April 6, 1981.Dr. Peyton T. Taylor, Jr. as Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective June 16, 1981.Mr. Bo P. Wang as Research Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for the period January 16, 1981 through August 31, 1984.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MS. BEVERLY M. HOLDER
---------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Ms. Beverly M. Holder, as approved by the Board on January 30, 1981, be changed to read as follows:Ms. Beverly M. Holder as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period January 16, 1981, through June 30, 1981.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the named chairs as shown below:Mr. Neil H. Borden as J. Harvie Wilkinson, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., as Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert D. Landel as Henry E. McWane Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Frank C. McCue, III, as Alfred R. Shands, Jr., Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Bernard A. Morin as Robert Hill Carter Professor of Marketing, School of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. C. Ray Smith as Tipton R. Snavely Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Aram Vartanian as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of French Literature, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Peyton E. Weary as Distinguished Professor of Dermatology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Thomas L. Wheelen as Ralph A. Beeton Professor of Free Enterprise, effective September 1, 1981.(b) Changes of Title for ChairholdersMr. Nathan A. Scott, Jr., from Commonwealth Professor of Religious Studies, to William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David W. Thompson, from Visiting Morris Plan Professor of Consumer Banking in Commerce, to the Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.(c) Retirements of ChairholdersMr. Julian N. Hartt, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Religious Studies, effective June 30, 1981. Mr. Hartt has been a member of the faculty since 1972.Mr. Frank G. Ryder, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of German, effective May 31, 1981. Mr. Ryder has been a member of the faculty since 1971.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. James M. Adams as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James H. Aylor as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Mary B. Backentose-McCune as Visiting Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mrs. Joanne M. Baldonado as Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Judith A. Bancroft as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Lloyd E. Barrett as Research Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. S. Michael Bernhard as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Melinda Blauvelt as Assistant Professor of Art, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Stuart T. Bray as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. E. Richard Brownlee, II, as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David T. Buxton as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Warren T. Byrd, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, School of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert T. Canevari as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Mark E. Cigolle as Visiting Assistant Professor of Architecture, for the period January 16, 1981 through March 15, 1981.Dr. Philip H. Cooper as Associate Professor of Pathology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. George T. Crafts as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Keith J. Crocker as Assistant Professor of Economics, for the period January 16, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert J. Douglass, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Miss Marjorie A. Flavin as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph Fletcher as Visiting Scholar in Medical Ethics, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Anne H. Freudenberg as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, part-time, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Paul C. Gaertner, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Nicholas J. Garber as Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. James C. Garrison as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Susanne R. Glass as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald C. Gordon as Research Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective February 1, 1981.Ms. Barbara A. Graham as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Julia H. Green as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Office of Student Affairs, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Ingrid G. Grieger as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Office of Student Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Hubert P. Hooper as Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jon K. Hutchison as Assistant Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Priscilla O. Jobe as Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. James R. Kistner as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective January 1, 1981.Ms. Tracy R. Koon as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Elizabeth Langhorne as Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Alwyn C. Lapsley as Research Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Martin D. LeVan as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Dov A. Lichtenberg as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. C. Jared Loewenstein as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Elizabeth B. Lowe as Assistant Professor of Law, General Faculty, for the period February 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Susan O. Marcell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Victor F. Marshall as Professor of Urology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Randolph P. Martin as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald Michener as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Clark Nardinelli as Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Timothy O'Rourke as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four years, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Alan B. Palazzolo as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. George P. Paul as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Michael F. Plunkett as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Stephen L. Pohl as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Yale Rabin as Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Frederick J. Ravenhill as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Benjamin C. Ray as Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Christine M. Reppucci as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Office of Student Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Deborah D. Roberts as Acting Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jacques J. Roger as Visiting Professor of French, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David A. Sensabaugh as Acting Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Gary J. Shiflet as Acting Assistant Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Bryce L. Shriver as Research Assistant Professor, Department of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. C. Clinton Sisson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Paul M. Suratt as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Bart Taub as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Patricia A. Taylor as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Kent D. Wall as Associate Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Gwo-Jaw Wang as Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Henry W. Wingate as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, The Darden School, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William C. Wood as Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Ellen D. Zide as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Office of Student Affairs, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William E. Zierden as Associate Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Olivier Zunz as Assistant Professor of History, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Gib Akin from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Daniel F. Albright from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Peter Armstrong from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. A. James Arnold from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Alfred S. Barritt, III, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Robert F. Bedford from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Neurological Surgery to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Neurological Surgery, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. George M. Bell from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David C. Benjamin from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Clifford T. Bennett from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Patricia Bennett from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Patrick J. Bird from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gordon M. Braden from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Norman A. G. Brenbridge from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. David E. Bruns from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Glen L. Bull from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Anthony J. Buschi from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Albert B. Butler from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery to Professor of Neurosurgery, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. William W. S. Butler, III, from Clinical Associate Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Urology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James T. Cargile from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William K. Carter from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Jay L. Chronister from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Leanna J. Crosby from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. John H. Danby from Associate Professor of Family Practice, Lynchburg to Professor of Family Practice, Lynchburg, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Leigh G. Donowitz from Instructor in Pediatrics to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective March 1, 1981.Mr. Raymond D. Dueser from Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. David Elkon from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Susan M. Elliott from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Mark J. Elson from Assistant Professor of Slavic to Associate Professor of Slavic, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Samuel S. Fisher from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald D. Flack from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert P. Flood from Assistant Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Thomas J. Gal from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Paul E. Gold from Associate Professor of Psychology to Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Sam D. Graham from Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology to Clinical Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Robert M. Grainger from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Richard L. Guerrant from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Peter Hackett from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Diana R. Harrington from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Mary S. Hasenstab from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Peter W. Holloway from Associate Professor of Biochemistry to Professor of Biochemistry, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. J. David Hunger from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. John C. Jeffries, Jr. from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Donald W. Jones from Associate Professor, General Faculty to Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Donald L. Kaiser from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. H. David Kay from Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Research Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Donald J. Kirwan from Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering to Professor of Chemical Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. James D. Kitchin from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Michael T. Klepper from Instructor, Law Library to Assistant Professor, Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Rebecca D. Kneedler from Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty to Associate Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Harold H. Kolb, Jr. from Associate Professor of English to Professor of English, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Howard Kutchai from Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John H. Lindgren, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Peter I. Lobo from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James S. McCarthy from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David E. Mills from Assistant Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Ralph C. Minehart from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Linda A. Moore from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. David Morris from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering to Professor of Civil Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Walter L. Newsome from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Eero O. Niskanen from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1981 through October 31, 1982.Ms. Margaret M. O'Bryant from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Gregory S. Orr from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Edwina H. Pancake from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Associate Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Charlotte J. Patterson from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Carol M. Pfeiffer from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Stephen P. Plaskon from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Robert J. Rotella from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Patricia A. Rowell from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Hernan Sabio from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Richard A. Scott from Associate Professor of Commerce to Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. A. John Simmons from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Burke M. Smith from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry (Psychology) to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one month, effective May 1, 1981.Dr. James W. Stone from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Otoniel R. Sullesta from Assistant Professor of Radiology, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Radiology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. John G. Thacker from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Dr. Siva Thiagarajah from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Denny D. Watson from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Richard P. Wenzel from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Professor of Internal Medicine, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Nancy I. Whitman from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. J. Harvie Wilkinson, III, from Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Brent D. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of Business Administration, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Stephen G. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Emmagene M. Wright from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Joseph J. Wynne from Instructor, General Faculty, Law Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Law Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. James W. Zerwick from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Mr. Dennis W. Barnes, Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, for the period January 19, 1981 through December 31, 1982, to accept a position as Chief Scientist, U. S. Committee on Science, Commerce and Transportation.Mr. James W. Ceaser, Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1981, to teach at the University of Bourdeaux's Institute of Politics.Mr. Carnes Lord, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for the period January 16, 1981 through January 15, 1983, to accept an appointment with the National Security Council.Mr. George A. McAlpine, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Carlos Ramos-Gil, Professor of Spanish, for the period January 1, 1981 through May 31, 1982, for medical reasons.Mr. Roger A. Rydin, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for the period September 1, 1981 through August 31, 1982, as visiting scientist at the European Atomic Energy Organization in Ispra, Italy.Mr. R. Jack Weber, Associate Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981, to teach in Lausanne, Switzerland.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Edward L. Ayers from Acting Assistant Professor of History to Assistant Professor of History, for the period January 16, 1981 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Randal L. Perry from Acting Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period January 16, 1981 through May 31, 1983.Mr. George T. Rodeheaver from Research Associate Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery to Associate Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Richard W. Shelly from Instructor in Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Dr. Charles A. Singhas from Research Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period January 1, 1981 through June 30, 1981.Mr. William R. Wilkerson from Lecturer, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Dr. Julian R. Beckwith, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1981. Dr. Beckwith has been a member of the faculty since 1953.Mr. John C. Coleman, Assistant Professor of English, effective May 31, 1981. Mr. Coleman has been a member of the faculty since 1950.Dr. John L. Guerrant, Professor of Internal Medicine, effective June 30, 1981. Dr. Guerrant has been a member of the faculty since 1946.Mr. T. Graham Hereford, Professor of Humanities, effective July 31, 1980. Mr. Hereford has been a member of the faculty since 1951.Mr. James L. Meem, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, effective May 31, 1981. Mr. Meem has been a member of the faculty since 1957.Mr. Willis G. Ryckman, Lecturer in Business Administration, effective May 31, 1981. Mr. Ryckman has been a member of the faculty since 1964.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard, Professor of Business Administration, effective June 30, 1981. Mr. Sheppard has been a member of the faculty since 1961.Mr. Burke M. Smith, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective May 31, 1981. Mr. Smith has been a member of the faculty since 1961.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Dr. Julian R. Beckwith, Professor of Internal Medicine.Dr. John L. Guerrant, Professor of Internal Medicine.Mr. Julian N. Hartt, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Religious Studies.Mr. James L. Meem, Professor of Nuclear Engineering.Mr. Frank G. Ryder, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of German.Mr. C. Stewart Sheppard, Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School.Mr. Burke M. Smith, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mrs. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley, Assistant Professor of Psychology, effective February 13, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. James F. Buck, Assistant Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Thomas H. Cromartie, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective August 31, 1981, to accept another position.Ms. Jacqueline R. Fox, Assistant Professor, Law Library, effective February 13, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Russell M. Grieger, Associate Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1981, to return to private practice.Mr. John B. Guerard, Associate Professor of Commerce, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Keith R. Hume, Assistant Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1981, for personal reasons.Mr. Glen E. Johnson, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective July 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Richard Odessey, Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective June 30, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Yoram Oron, Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, effective December 31, 1980, to accept a position in Israel.Mr. Jens Rieckmann, Assistant Professor of German, effective May 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. Robert A. Seal, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective March 26, 1981, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. C. Knight Aldrich as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ralph O. Allen as Director, Office of Environmental Health and Safety, for the period November 4, 1980 through June 30, 1984Mr. Rodney L. Biltonen as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for the period July 1, 1981 through April 30, 1982Mr. Ronald E. Comfort as Chairman, Department of Curriculum and Instruction, School of Education, for the period January 16, 1981 through May 31, 1985Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one semester, effective January 16, 1981.Mr. Leopold Damrosch, Jr. as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. William H. Fishback, Jr. as Associate Vice-President for University Relations, for five years, effective April 1, 1981.Mr. Daniel P. Hallahan as Chairman, Department of Special Education, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mrs. Julie A. Kaplan as Associate Director, Office of Financial Aid to Students, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. David Miles as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Merrill D. Peterson as Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for four years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Richard D. Schultz as Director, University Athletic Programs, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Aram Vartanian as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1981.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Mrs. Margot S. Baker as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Alexandria J. DeLoatch as Assistant Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for five years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Ronald G. Dimberg as Assistant Dean for International Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Paul C. Gaertner, Jr. as Associate Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, for the period February 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr. as Special Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Edward J. Golden as Assistant Dean of Students, Office of Student Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Joan E. Gore as Assistant Dean for International Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.Ms. Hortense B. Hinton as Assistant Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for one year, effective August 1, 1981.Mr. Donald W. Jones as Assistant to the President, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Steven J. Klein as Assistant Dean of Students, Office of Student Affairs, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Karen H. Knierim as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mrs. Elizabeth B. Lowe as Assistant Dean, School of Law, for the period February 1, 1981 through June 30, 1984Mr. Jan L. Perkowski as Chairman, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Michael C. Sharrett as Assistant Director, Career Planning and Placement, for one year, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jerry G. Short as Chairman of the Department of Foundations of Education, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. Chester R. Titus as Associate Dean of Students, Office of Student Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROBERT HILL CARTER PROFESSORSHIP IN MARKETING IN THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Commerce a Chair to be known as the Robert Hill Carter Professorship in Marketing in the School of Commerce. The Board is grateful to Robert Carter and Bierne Carter who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

CHANGE OF NAME OF THE ALFRED R. SHANDS PROFESSORSHIP OF ORTHOPEDICS
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the name of the Alfred R. Shands, Jr., Professorship of Orthopedics be and it is hereby changed to the Alfred R. Shands, Jr., Professorship of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

A report on construction was distributed. The report indicates that the Undergraduate Readers Library is 69% complete, the parking garage is complete except for state inspection, and the Newcomb Hall addition is 25% complete.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President reported that a number of bills affecting the University were approved in the recent session of the General Assembly. One of these amended the Revenue Bond bill to authorize construction of a 650 bed dormitory project, and $13,800,000 in revenue bonds to finance it. $1,925,000 of bonds for a parking facility at the Medical Center and $850,000 of bonds for a food services building were approved.

House Bill 1629 was approved, reaffirming the Commonwealth's position that unrestricted private gifts to institutions of higher education shall not in any way affect state appropriations to those institutions.

The President discussed briefly several other bills including House Bill 1231 which exempts educational institutions and others from local service charges (except that service charges may be levied on faculty and staff housing - not to exceed the real estate tax which would have been imposed had this property been fully taxed.

Finally the President pointed to Joint Resolution 327, introduced by Delegate James Murray. This resolution commended the University of Virginia Basketball Team for its phenomenal success in basketball.

SCHEDULE OF MEETING DATES FOR 1982
----------------------------------

January 28, 29, and 30, 1982

Charlottesville, Virginia

March 25, 26, and 27, 1982

Charlottesville, Virginia

June 3, 4, and 5, 1982

Charlottesville, Virginia

October 14, 15, and 16, 1982

Charlottesville, Virginia

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1982 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: January 28, 29, and 30, 1982Charlottesville, VirginiaMarch 25, 26, and 27, 1982Charlottesville, VirginiaJune 3, 4, and 5, 1982Charlottesville, VirginiaOctober 14, 15, and 16, 1982Charlottesville, Virginia

INCREASE IN CONTRACT RATES FOR FOOD SERVICE, 1981-1982
------------------------------------------------------

Food Service Contract

Actual 1980-81

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981-82

5-Day (15 meals)

$ 914

$ 92

10.1%

$1,006

7-Day (19 meals)

$1,078

$ 82

7.6%

$1,160

12-Meals per week

$ 874

$100

11.4%

$ 974

Flex (15 meals)

$ 998

$102

10.2%

$1,100

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the student contract rates for food services be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1981-1982: Food Service ContractActual 1980-81Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981-825-Day (15 meals)$ 914$ 9210.1%$1,0067-Day (19 meals)$1,078$ 827.6%$1,16012-Meals per week$ 874$10011.4%$ 974Flex (15 meals)$ 998$10210.2%$1,100

INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------------

1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1981-82 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Maximum Compensation (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

General Faculty

Professor

$22,400

$24,400

\--

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

18,400

20,200

\--

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

15,000

16,400

\--

(2)

1 year

Instructor

10,600

11,600

\--

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Department Head

$29,800

$32,600

\--

(2)

1 year

Professor

26,000

28,400

\--

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

21,600

23,600

\--

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

17,200

18,800

\--

(2)

1 year

Instructor

13,200

14,800

\--

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant A

$10,200

11,000

\--

(2)

1 year

Research Assistant B

14,000

15,000

\--

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

15,200

15,400

\--

(2)

1 year

Senior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant

15,200

15,400

\--

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician A

9,200

10,200

\--

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician B

11,400

12,400

\--

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician C

14,000

15,000

\--

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist/Eng A(4) (4)Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

$15,400

$17,000

$24,000

$1,400

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng B(4)

18,000

19,800

27,800

1,600

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng C(4)

21,000

23,000

35,600

1,800

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng A (4)

20,000

22,000

31,000

1,800

1 year

Research Director A (4)

23,000

25,200

37,800

1,800

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng B (4)

23,000

25,200

37,800

1,800

1 year

Research Director B (4)

31,600

34,800

48,800

2,000

1 year

Principal Scientist/Eng (4)

31,600

34,800

46,800

2,000

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng C (4)

24,000

26,400

40,400

2,000

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plans applicable to the teaching and research staff in the University Division be and they are hereby approved, effective July 1, 1981: 1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated. 1981-82 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Maximum Compensation (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalGeneral FacultyProfessor$22,400$24,400--(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor18,40020,200--(2)1 yearAssistant Professor15,00016,400--(2)1 yearInstructor10,60011,600--(2)1 yearPre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis. Department Head$29,800$32,600--(2)1 yearProfessor26,00028,400--(2)1 yearAssociate Professor21,60023,600--(2)1 yearAssistant Professor17,20018,800--(2)1 yearInstructor13,20014,800--(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Assistant A$10,20011,000--(2)1 yearResearch Assistant B14,00015,000--(2)1 yearResearch Associate15,20015,400--(2)1 yearSenior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant15,20015,400--(2)1 yearResearch Statistician A9,20010,200--(2)1 yearResearch Statistician B11,40012,400--(2)1 yearResearch Statistician C14,00015,000--(2)1 yearSponsored Programs (3)Research Scientist/Eng A(4) (4)Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only. $15,400$17,000$24,000$1,4001 yearResearch Scientist/Eng B(4)18,00019,80027,8001,6001 yearResearch Scientist/Eng C(4)21,00023,00035,6001,8001 yearSenior Scientist/Eng A (4)20,00022,00031,0001,8001 yearResearch Director A (4)23,00025,20037,8001,8001 yearSenior Scientist/Eng B (4)23,00025,20037,8001,8001 yearResearch Director B (4)31,60034,80048,8002,0001 yearPrincipal Scientist/Eng (4)31,60034,80046,8002,0001 yearSenior Scientist/Eng C (4)24,00026,40040,4002,0001 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1981-82

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$17,600

$19,400

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$15,200

$16,800

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$12,600

$13,800

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$10,000

$11,000

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1981: Rank1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1981-82Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$17,600$19,400(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$15,200$16,800(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$12,600$13,800(2)1 yearInstructor$10,000$11,000(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1981-82

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$17,200

$18,800

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$15,000

$16,400

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$12,600

$13,800

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$10,200

$11,200

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff in the Division of Continuing Education be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1981: Rank1980-81 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1981-82Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$17,200$18,800(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$15,000$16,400(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$12,600$13,800(2)1 yearInstructor$10,200$11,200(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN CLINICAL FACULTY SALARY SCALE AND CEILINGS: SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale 1980-81

Proposed Scale 1981-82

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Department Chairman

$ 41,200

$ 92,900

$ 45,100

$106,000

Professor & Division Head

39,300

82,700

43,000

95,100

Professor

35,800

79,900

39,200

91,900

Associate Professor & Division Head

34,300

75,100

37,600

86,400

Associate Professor

31,000

71,700

33,900

82,500

Assistant Professor

26,100

64,200

28,600

73,800

Instructor

22,700

53,100

24,900

61,100

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that subject to the approval of the Governor, the Clinical Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1981: RankCurrent Scale 1980-81Proposed Scale 1981-82State MaximumCeilingsState MaximumCeilingsDepartment Chairman$ 41,200$ 92,900$ 45,100$106,000Professor & Division Head39,30082,70043,00095,100Professor35,80079,90039,20091,900Associate Professor & Division Head34,30075,10037,60086,400Associate Professor31,00071,70033,90082,500Assistant Professor26,10064,20028,60073,800Instructor22,70053,10024,90061,100

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES
-------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 80-81

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 81-82

Actual 80-81

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 81-82

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time

$1,030

$100

9.7%

$1,130

$2,390

$240

10.0%

$2,630

Medical Technology

715

45

6.3%

760

715

45

6.3%

760

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus.-MBA

1,780

170

9.6%

1,950

3,800

380

10.0%

4,180

Law - JD

1,455

145

10.0%

1,600

3,325

375

11.3%

3,700

Medicine - MD

3,105\* \*1980-81 Includes Medicine - Microscope Fee ($40).

275

8.9%

3,380

6,405\*

625

9.8%

7,030

Other Charges

Student Act. Fee\*\* \*\*Increase approved by the Board of Visitors in January, 1981.

12

4

33.3%

16

12

4

33.3%

16

Arch. Act. Fee

5

0

\--

5

5

0

\--

5

Commerce-Act. Fee

5

0

\--

5

5

0

\--

5

Commerce-Computer & Publication Fee

45

0

\--

45

45

0

\--

45

Education - Act. Fee

2

0

\--

2

2

0

\--

2

Engineering - Act. Fee

4

0

\--

4

4

0

\--

4

Grad. Bus. - Computer & Publication Fee

240

0

\--

240

240

0

\--

240

Law School - Act. Fee

17

5

29.4%

22

17

5

29.4%

22

Nursing - Student Fee

70

(30)

(42.9%)

40

70

(30)

(42.9%)

40

Coll. A&S - Act. Fee

2

(2)

(100.0%)

0

2

(2)

(100.0%)

0

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1981: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 80-81Amt IncPercent of IncProp 81-82Actual 80-81Amt IncPercent of IncProp 81-82Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time$1,030$1009.7%$1,130$2,390$24010.0%$2,630Medical Technology715456.3%760715456.3%760Professional SchoolsGraduate Bus.-MBA1,7801709.6%1,9503,80038010.0%4,180Law - JD1,45514510.0%1,6003,32537511.3%3,700Medicine - MD3,105\* \*1980-81 Includes Medicine - Microscope Fee ($40). 2758.9%3,3806,405\*6259.8%7,030Other ChargesStudent Act. Fee\*\* \*\*Increase approved by the Board of Visitors in January, 1981. 12433.3%1612433.3%16Arch. Act. Fee50--550--5Commerce-Act. Fee50--550--5Commerce-Computer & Publication Fee450--45450--45Education - Act. Fee20--220--2Engineering - Act. Fee40--440--4Grad. Bus. - Computer & Publication Fee2400--2402400--240Law School - Act. Fee17529.4%2217529.4%22Nursing - Student Fee70(30)(42.9%)4070(30)(42.9%)40Coll. A&S - Act. Fee2(2)(100.0%)02(2)(100.0%)0

1980-81 Includes Medicine - Microscope Fee ($40).

Increase approved by the Board of Visitors in January, 1981.

INCREASE IN TUITION FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------

Current 1980-81

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1981-82

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$33.00

$ 4.00

12.1%

$ 37.00

Continuing Education Credit Courses - Graduate Per Semester Hour

35.00

5.00

14.3%

40.00

Graduate Courses as Part of Off-Grounds Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

50.00

5.00

10.0%

55.00

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses

1-3 Credit Hours Per Semester

99.00

12.00

12.1%

111.00

4-8 Credit Hours Per Semester

198.00

24.00

12.1%

222.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10.00

\--

\--

10.00

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5.00

\--

\--

5.00

Change of Status Fee

5.00

\--

\--

5.00

Transcript Fee

2.00

\--

\--

2.00

Late Exam Fee

5.00

\--

\--

5.00

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10.00

\--

\--

10.00

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following charges for the Division of Continuing Education shall supersede all previous schedules, effective for the 1981-82 Session, and they are hereby approved: Current 1980-81Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1981-82Continuing Education Credit Courses - Undergraduate Per Semester Hour$33.00$ 4.0012.1%$ 37.00Continuing Education Credit Courses - Graduate Per Semester Hour35.005.0014.3%40.00Graduate Courses as Part of Off-Grounds Degree Programs Per Semester Hour50.005.0010.0%55.00Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses1-3 Credit Hours Per Semester99.0012.0012.1%111.004-8 Credit Hours Per Semester198.0024.0012.1%222.00Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs10.00----10.00Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only5.00----5.00Change of Status Fee5.00----5.00Transcript Fee2.00----2.00Late Exam Fee5.00----5.00TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration10.00----10.00Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginians

Non-Virginians

1980-81

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 81-82

1980-81

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 81-82

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$750.00

$70.00

9.3%

$820.00

$1,110.00

$130.00

11.7%

$1,240.00

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

$ 27.50

$ 2.50

9.1%

$ 30.00

$ 42.50

$ 5.00

11.8%

$ 47.50

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses-Rate per semester hour

$ 27.50

$ 2.50

9.1%

$ 30.00

$ 42.50

$ 5.00

11.8%

$ 47.50

Non-Credit Courses-Rate per CEU

$ 18.00

($ 8.00)

(44.4%)

$ 10.00

$ 28.00

($13.00)

(46.4%)

$ 15.00

Dormitory Rent

$480.00

$48.00

10.0%

$528.00

$ 480.00

$48.00

10.0%

$528.00

Other Fees Application Fee

$ 15.00

\--

\--

$ 15.00

$ 15.00

\--

\--

$ 15.00

Applied Music Fee-Rate per semester hour

$ 75.00

\--

\--

$ 75.00

$ 75.00

\--

\--

$ 75.00

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104,105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1981: VirginiansNon-Virginians1980-81Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 81-821980-81Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 81-82Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$750.00$70.009.3%$820.00$1,110.00$130.0011.7%$1,240.00Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour$ 27.50$ 2.509.1%$ 30.00$ 42.50$ 5.0011.8%$ 47.50Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses-Rate per semester hour$ 27.50$ 2.509.1%$ 30.00$ 42.50$ 5.0011.8%$ 47.50Non-Credit Courses-Rate per CEU$ 18.00($ 8.00)(44.4%)$ 10.00$ 28.00($13.00)(46.4%)$ 15.00Dormitory Rent$480.00$48.0010.0%$528.00$ 480.00$48.0010.0%$528.00Other Fees Application Fee$ 15.00----$ 15.00$ 15.00----$ 15.00Applied Music Fee-Rate per semester hour$ 75.00----$ 75.00$ 75.00----$ 75.00The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104,105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES
---------------------------

1980-81

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1981-82

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ --

\--

$ 15.00

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure

2.00

\--

\--

2.00

University Transit

35.00

5.00

14.3%

40.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area

25.00

\--

\--

25.00

Fringe Benefits

105.00

\--

\--

105.00

Athletics

55.00

\--

\--

55.00

Student Health

90.00

10.00

11.1%

100.00

University Union

19.00

\--

\--

19.00

University Union Programs

5.00

\--

\--

5.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\--

\--

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

10.00

\--

\--

10.00

TOTAL

$365.00

$ 15.00

4.1%

$380.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be and it is hereby established, effective July 1, 1981, in the amount of $380;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the fee component be allocated for the 1981-82 Session as follows: 1980-81Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1981-82Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall$ 15.00$ ----$ 15.00Pledged for amortization of bond issue for library structure2.00----2.00University Transit35.005.0014.3%40.00Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area25.00----25.00Fringe Benefits105.00----105.00Athletics55.00----55.00Student Health90.0010.0011.1%100.00University Union19.00----19.00University Union Programs5.00----5.00Class Affiliation4.00----4.00Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities10.00----10.00TOTAL$365.00$ 15.004.1%$380.00

INCREASE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR 1981-1982
---------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities furnished by U. VA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS, E, O

$210

$20

10%

$230

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS, E, O

$230

$25

11%

$255

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS, E

$225

$25

11%

$290\* \*Increase is for rent and the cost of the electricity to be assumed by the University.

O

Townhouses (10) 3 BR

WS, E

$310

$15

5%

$325

Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$165

$15

10%

$180

Apt. 2, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$185

$20

11%

$205

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$160

$15

9%

$175

Apt. 4, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$175

$15

9%

$190

Gildersleeve/Snowden

Monroe Lane:

1 Bedroom (16)

WS, G, E

$175

$15

9%

$190

2 Bedroom (1)

WS, G, E

$220

$20

9%

$240

Efficiency (2)

WS, G, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Facility

Utilities Furnished by U. VA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Snowden:

Apt. 1 (1 BR)

WS, G, E

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 2 (1 BR)

WS, G, E

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 6 (Efficiency)

WS, G, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Apt. 101 (3 BR)

WS, G, E

$275

$25

9%

$300

Apt. 103 (2 BR)

WS, G, E

$220

$20

9%

$240

Apt. 201 (1 BR)

WS, G, E

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 202 (1 BR)

WS, G, E

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 203 (2 BR)

WS, G, E

$220

$20

9%

$240

Sundry

Vysotsky Cottage (3 BR)

WS

$190

$20

11%

$210

E, O

Upper Alden (3 BR)

WS, O

$200

$20

10%

$220

E

Lower Alden (3 BR)

WS, O

$185

$20

11%

$205

E

Little Morea (1 BR)

WS, O, E

$155

$15

10%

$170

McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)

HP, E, WS

$130

$15

11%

$145

Farmhouse (250 By-Pass 3 BR)

\-

$90

$10

11%

$100

WS, E,

2400 Stadium Rd. (4 BR)

\-

$250

$25

10%

$275

WS, G,

Birdwood Properties:

Cottage (1 BR)

WS

$185

$20

11%

$205

E

Garage (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$225

$20

9%

$245

South Cottage (3 BR)

WS

$100

$10

10%

$110

E,O

Faulkner Property:

Holly House (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$195

$20

10%

$215

Holly House (Lower Rm)

WS, E, O

$85

$10

12%

$95

Hedge House (2 BR)

WS

$135

$15

11%

$150

E, O

Orchard House (5 Single Rooms)

WS, E, O

$85

$10

12%

$95

Facility

Utilities Furnished by U. VA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

118 Oakhurst Circle:

Upper (2 BR)

WS, G

$195

$20

8%

$215

E

Lower (2 BR)

WS, G

$215

$20

9%

$235

E

Valley Road Property:

503 Valley Road (1 BR)

\-

$165

$15

9%

$180

WS, E, G

409 Valley Road (2 BR)

\-

$200

$20

10%

$220

WS, E, O

411 Valley Road (2 BR)

\-

$200

$20

10%

$220

WS, E, G

Faculty Apts:

Apt. 11 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$200

$20

10%

$220

Apt. 12 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$195

$20

10%

$215

Apt. 14 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$20

10%

$210

Apt. 15 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$20

11%

$205

Apt. 21 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$140

$15

11%

$155

Apt. 22 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$145

$15

10%

$160

Apt. 23 (Eff.)

WS, E, O

$140

$15

11%

$155

Apt. 24 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$145

$15

10%

$160

Apt. 25 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$155

$15

10%

$170

Apt. 26 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$150

$15

10%

$165

Apt. 27 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$150

$15

10%

$165

Apt. 28 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$145

$15

10%

$160

Apt. 31 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$155

$15

10%

$170

Apt. 32 (1 BR)

WS, E, O

$150

$15

10%

$165

Apt. 33 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$170

$15

9%

$185

Apt. 34 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$170

$15

9%

$185

Apt. 35 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$165

$15

9%

$180

Apt. 36 (2 BR)

WS, E, O

$165

$15

9%

$180

Pavilions (9) 3 BR

WS, HP

$200

$20

10%

$220

E

Montebello (3 BR)

\-

$175

$15

9%

$190

WS, E, G

Upper Mews (1 BR)

HP, E, WS

$155

$15

10%

$170

Lower Mews (1 BR)

HP, E, WS

$155

$15

10%

$170

Facility

Utilities Furnished by U. VA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

g Morea (4 BR)

WS, E, O

$175

$15

9%

$190

rriage House (4 BR)

WS, E, O

$75

$10

13%

$85

nnyside (4 BR)

\-

$150

$15

10%

$165

O, E, WS

nroe Hill House (2 BR)

WS, HP

$135

$15

11%

$150

E

rr's Hill Cottage (2 BR)

WS, E, HP

$75

$10

13%

$85

tel D (2 BR)

WS, E, HP

$150

$15

10%

$165

lue Ridge Properties:

Bldg. 927 (House-4 BR)

WS

$235

$15

6%

$250

E, O

Bldg. 925 (2 BR)

WS, O, E

$70

$95

236%

$165

Bldg. 924 (2 BR)

WS, O, E

$70

$95

236%

$165

Bldg. 922 (3 BR)

WS, E

$190

$0

0%

$190

O

Bldg. 921 (3 BR)

WS, E

$185

$5

3%

$190

O

Bldg. 919 (4 BR)

HP, WS, E

$200

$20

10%

$220

Bldg. 916 (4 BR)

HP, WS, E

$175

$20

11%

$195

Bldg. 918A (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$140

$10

7%

$150

Bldg. 918B (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$100

$50

50%

$150

Bldg. 915A (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$100

$50

50%

$150

Bldg. 915B (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$100

$50

50%

$150

Bldg. 915C (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$100

$50

50%

$150

Bldg. 915D (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$100

$50

50%

$150

Bldg. 913A (2/3 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$15

9%

$190

Bldg. 913B (2/3 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$175

$15

9%

$190

Bldg. 913C (2/3 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$120

$70

58%

$190

Bldg. 913D (2/3 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$120

$70

58%

$190

Bldg. 917 (House-2 BR)

HP, WS, E

$120

$55

46%

$175

Bldg. 912A (2 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$155

$10

7%

$165

Bldg. 912B (2 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$120

$45

38%

$165

Facility

Utilities Furnished by U. VA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1980-81 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Bldg. 903 (1 BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$95

$10

11%

$105

Bldg. 903 (Dorm Rooms-7 Double), Vacant

HP, WS, E

$32

$18

56%

$50

Bldg. 903 (Dorm Rooms-12 Single), Vacant

HP, WS, E

$48

$12

25%

$60

$5/night

$ 3

60%

$ 8/night

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Residential Housing rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1981: FacilityUtilities furnished by U. VAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1981-82 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)WS, E, O$210$2010%$2302 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS, E, O$230$2511%$2553 Bedroom Houses (16)WS, E$225$2511%$290\* \*Increase is for rent and the cost of the electricity to be assumed by the University. OTownhouses (10) 3 BRWS, E$310$155%$325Farmhouse (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$165$1510%$180Apt. 2, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$185$2011%$205Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$160$159%$175Apt. 4, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$175$159%$190Gildersleeve/SnowdenMonroe Lane:1 Bedroom (16)WS, G, E$175$159%$1902 Bedroom (1)WS, G, E$220$209%$240Efficiency (2)WS, G, E$150$1510%$165 FacilityUtilities Furnished by U. VAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1981-82 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantSnowden:Apt. 1 (1 BR)WS, G, E$180$2011%$200Apt. 2 (1 BR)WS, G, E$180$2011%$200Apt. 6 (Efficiency)WS, G, E$150$1510%$165Apt. 101 (3 BR)WS, G, E$275$259%$300Apt. 103 (2 BR)WS, G, E$220$209%$240Apt. 201 (1 BR)WS, G, E$180$2011%$200Apt. 202 (1 BR)WS, G, E$180$2011%$200Apt. 203 (2 BR)WS, G, E$220$209%$240SundryVysotsky Cottage (3 BR)WS$190$2011%$210E, OUpper Alden (3 BR)WS, O$200$2010%$220ELower Alden (3 BR)WS, O$185$2011%$205ELittle Morea (1 BR)WS, O, E$155$1510%$170McGuffey Cottage (Eff.)HP, E, WS$130$1511%$145Farmhouse (250 By-Pass 3 BR)-$90$1011%$100WS, E, 2400 Stadium Rd. (4 BR)-$250$2510%$275WS, G, Birdwood Properties:Cottage (1 BR)WS$185$2011%$205EGarage (2 BR)WS, E, O$225$209%$245South Cottage (3 BR)WS$100$1010%$110E,OFaulkner Property:Holly House (2 BR)WS, E, O$195$2010%$215Holly House (Lower Rm)WS, E, O$85$1012%$95Hedge House (2 BR)WS$135$1511%$150E, OOrchard House (5 Single Rooms)WS, E, O$85$1012%$95 FacilityUtilities Furnished by U. VAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1981-82 Per MonthUtilities Paid by Occupant118 Oakhurst Circle:Upper (2 BR)WS, G$195$208%$215ELower (2 BR)WS, G$215$209%$235EValley Road Property:503 Valley Road (1 BR)-$165$159%$180WS, E, G409 Valley Road (2 BR)-$200$2010%$220WS, E, O411 Valley Road (2 BR)-$200$2010%$220WS, E, GFaculty Apts:Apt. 11 (2 BR)WS, E, O$200$2010%$220Apt. 12 (2 BR)WS, E, O$195$2010%$215Apt. 14 (2 BR)WS, E, O$190$2010%$210Apt. 15 (2 BR)WS, E, O$185$2011%$205Apt. 21 (1 BR)WS, E, O$140$1511%$155Apt. 22 (1 BR)WS, E, O$145$1510%$160Apt. 23 (Eff.)WS, E, O$140$1511%$155Apt. 24 (1 BR)WS, E, O$145$1510%$160Apt. 25 (1 BR)WS, E, O$155$1510%$170Apt. 26 (1 BR)WS, E, O$150$1510%$165Apt. 27 (1 BR)WS, E, O$150$1510%$165Apt. 28 (1 BR)WS, E, O$145$1510%$160Apt. 31 (1 BR)WS, E, O$155$1510%$170Apt. 32 (1 BR)WS, E, O$150$1510%$165Apt. 33 (2 BR)WS, E, O$170$159%$185Apt. 34 (2 BR)WS, E, O$170$159%$185Apt. 35 (2 BR)WS, E, O$165$159%$180Apt. 36 (2 BR)WS, E, O$165$159%$180Pavilions (9) 3 BRWS, HP$200$2010%$220EMontebello (3 BR)-$175$159%$190WS, E, GUpper Mews (1 BR)HP, E, WS$155$1510%$170Lower Mews (1 BR)HP, E, WS$155$1510%$170 FacilityUtilities Furnished by U. VAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1981-82 Per MonthUtilities Paid by Occupantg Morea (4 BR)WS, E, O$175$159%$190rriage House (4 BR)WS, E, O$75$1013%$85nnyside (4 BR)-$150$1510%$165O, E, WSnroe Hill House (2 BR)WS, HP$135$1511%$150Err's Hill Cottage (2 BR)WS, E, HP$75$1013%$85tel D (2 BR)WS, E, HP$150$1510%$165lue Ridge Properties:Bldg. 927 (House-4 BR)WS$235$156%$250E, OBldg. 925 (2 BR)WS, O, E$70$95236%$165Bldg. 924 (2 BR)WS, O, E$70$95236%$165Bldg. 922 (3 BR)WS, E$190$00%$190OBldg. 921 (3 BR)WS, E$185$53%$190OBldg. 919 (4 BR)HP, WS, E$200$2010%$220Bldg. 916 (4 BR)HP, WS, E$175$2011%$195Bldg. 918A (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$140$107%$150Bldg. 918B (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$100$5050%$150Bldg. 915A (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$100$5050%$150Bldg. 915B (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$100$5050%$150Bldg. 915C (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$100$5050%$150Bldg. 915D (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$100$5050%$150Bldg. 913A (2/3 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$159%$190Bldg. 913B (2/3 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$175$159%$190Bldg. 913C (2/3 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$120$7058%$190Bldg. 913D (2/3 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$120$7058%$190Bldg. 917 (House-2 BR)HP, WS, E$120$5546%$175Bldg. 912A (2 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$155$107%$165Bldg. 912B (2 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$120$4538%$165 FacilityUtilities Furnished by U. VAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1980-81 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1981-82 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBldg. 903 (1 BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$95$1011%$105Bldg. 903 (Dorm Rooms-7 Double), VacantHP, WS, E$32$1856%$50Bldg. 903 (Dorm Rooms-12 Single), VacantHP, WS, E$48$1225%$60$5/night$ 360%$ 8/night

Increase is for rent and the cost of the electricity to be assumed by the University.

INCREASE IN THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the daily care rates for routine bed accommodations in the University Hospital Division be and they are hereby increased by 15% (which amounts to a $23.00 a day increase for a semi-private room), effective at the close of business on June 30, 1981.

INCREASE IN BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES
---------------------------------------------------

Daily Rate

Nursing Unit

1980-81

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1981-82

Tuberculosis

$128

$10

7.8%

$138

Epilepsy

$148

$10

6.8%

$158

Diabetes

$100

$28

28.5%

$128

Nutrition/Obesity

$ 65

$20

30.8%

$ 85

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the daily rates for rooms in the Blue Ridge Hospital Division be and they are hereby increased by an average of 15.4% as indicated below, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1981. Daily RateNursing Unit1980-81Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1981-82Tuberculosis$128$107.8%$138Epilepsy$148$106.8%$158Diabetes$100$2828.5%$128Nutrition/Obesity$ 65$2030.8%$ 85

NAMING OF THE HISTORY OF MEDICINE AND RARE BOOK ROOM "THE WILHELM MOLL RARE BOOK AND MEDICAL HISTORY ROOM"
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the History of Medicine and Rare Book Room of the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library be and it is hereby named the Wilhelm Moll Rare Book and Medical History Room.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$1,038,049.23

Free Service to Counties & Cities

$2,242,311.90

\--------------

Total

$3,280,361.13

Blue Ridge Hospital Division:

Free Service to Counties & Cities

$294,755.85

Free Service for Medically Indigent Acute Inpatients

3,471.60

\--------------

Total

$298,227.45

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 392 through 400 for the months of November, December 1980, and January, 1981, totaling $3,280,361.13, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 452 through 454 for the months of December, 1980 and January 1981 totaling $298,227.45 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$1,038,049.23Free Service to Counties & Cities$2,242,311.90--------------Total$3,280,361.13Blue Ridge Hospital Division:Free Service to Counties & Cities$294,755.85Free Service for Medically Indigent Acute Inpatients3,471.60--------------Total$298,227.45 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF MR. EDWIN E. FLOYD as VICE PRESIDENT AND PROVOST
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee acting for the Board of Visitors under Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia on March 20, 1981, adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that Mr. Edwin E. Floyd be and he is hereby elected as Vice-President and Provost for a term of five years, at an annual salary of $75,000, effective July 1, 1981.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGARDING THE ELECTION OF MR. MARION B. PEAVEY as VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT AND UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board of Visitors under Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia on February 16, 1981, adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the election of Mr. Marion B. Peavey as Vice President for Development and University Relations for a term of five years, at an annual salary of $60,000, effective April 1, 1981, be and it is hereby approved.

REPORT ON THE ACTION OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE APPROVING THE DISPLAY OF A STATEMENT OF FORMER PRESIDENT COLGATE W. DARDEN, JR., AT THE COLGATE DARDEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Executive Committee, acting for the Board of Visitors under Section 13.1-216 of the Code of Virginia on February 16, 1981, adopted the following resolution:

RESOLVED by The Executive Committee of the Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia approves the display in a prominent place and fashion in the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Administration of the following words:

"...I cannot resist a suggestion which embodies all my hopes for the school. It is that nothing will ever induce us to lay aside the instruction in the ethical foundations of American business. Without a firm attachment to unimpeachable integrity in our business as well as in personal affairs, we build on shifting sands and there can be no future for any of us."

ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
------------------------------------------

The Board accepted $2,012,600 in gifts over the period December 1, 1980, through February 28, 1981, and $7,950,300 in contracts over the period December 1, 1980, through January 31, 1981. The total amount accepted was $9,962,900. Certain gifts received during the last days of the reporting period may not be included in the report.

APPROVAL OF VEPCO EASEMENT, COPELEY HILL AREA
---------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the easement agreement, dated March 3, 1981, between the University and Virginia Electric and Power Company be and it hereby is approved to grant the Virginia Electric and Power Company permission to construct, inspect, maintain and operate its street lights and underground lines for transmitting and distributing electric power across University-owned land in the vicinity of Copeley Hill.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR SEWER LINES AT BIRDWOOD FARM
-----------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the easement agreement, dated March 25, 1981, between the University of Virginia and the Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority be, and it hereby is, approved to grant the Rivanna Water and Sewer Authority permission to install, construct, operate and maintain sewer lines across University owned lands in the vicinity of the Birdwood Farm in Albemarle County.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERLEAVE OF ABSENCE
-------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member of the Division of Continuing Education be and she is hereby granted leave of absence:Miss Elizabeth K. Puzak, Lecturer in Continuing Education, for one month, effective March 1, 1981, for personal reasons.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERPROMOTION
-------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty member be and he is hereby promoted at Clinch Valley College:Mr. John G. Blackburn, Jr., from Associate Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, to Professor of History, Clinch Valley College, effective September 1, 1981.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 2:30 p.m.

RCB:jb
