---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1982'
month: 3
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1982) March 26, 1982
===============================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

March 26, 1982

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA March 26, 1982
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 8:58 a.m., in Open Session on March 25, 1982, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Rector pro tempore, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Fred G. Pollard, James L. Trinkle, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent: C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Avery Catlin, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on March 26, 1982, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr.; and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William M. Dudley, William R. Harvey, Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, James L. Trinkle, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., E. Massie Valentine, and Neal O. Wade, Jr. Absent: C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Marion B. Peavey, Avery Catlin, Edwin E. Floyd, and George G. Grattan, IV, were present throughout the meeting.

The Minutes of the meeting of January 30, 1982, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

INTRODUCTION OF NEW BOARD MEMBERS
---------------------------------

Mr. Robert V. Hatcher, Jr., Rector pro tempore, introduced the new Members of the Board, Mrs. George M. Cochran, Messrs. John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., William R. Harvey, James L. Trinkle, and Neal O. Wade, Jr.

EXPRESSIONS OF APPRECIATION TO RETIRING VISITORS
------------------------------------------------

Four Members of the Board who had served two terms were thanked for their services to the University at the January meeting. At this meeting, the Rector pro tempore, expressed appreciation to three additional retiring Visitors Messrs. Stephen C. Mahan, Frank S. Royal and D. French Slaughter, Jr.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present: (a) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 15 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of matters relating to gifts, bequests and fund-raising activities, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (7) of the Virginia Code.(b) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 16 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing of public funds where competition or bargaining are involved, where if made public initially, the financial interests of the University would be adversely affected, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a) (5) of the Virginia Code.(c) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 14 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion and the consideration of the condition, use and disposition of publicly held real property in Chattanooga and New Orleans and for the acquisition of real property for future expansion of the Medical Center as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a)(2) of the Virginia Code.(d) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 8 on that Committee's agenda for the consideration of personnel matters involving assignment, appointment, promotion, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a)(1) of the Virginia Code.(e) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 1 b, on the agenda of the Preliminary Meeting of the Board for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a)(6) of the Virginia Code.(f) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 1 a, on the Board's Agenda for its Preliminary Meeting for the discussion or consideration of the assignment, appointment or promotion of a public officer, as provided for in Section 2.1-344(a)(1) of the Virginia Code.

Following a recess for an Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 9:32 a.m., on March 25, 1982.

ELECTION OF FRED G. POLLARD AS RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
-------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, and in compliance with the provisions of the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Fred G. Pollard was unanimously elected to a four year term as Rector of the University of Virginia.

ELECTION OF RAYMOND C. BICE, JR., AS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Raymond C. Bice, Jr., was unanimously elected to a four year term as Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

ELECTION OF ALEXANDER G. GILLIAM, JR., AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In accordance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, and in compliance with the Code of Virginia, Section 23-74, Mr. Alexander G. Gilliam, Jr., was unanimously elected to a four year term as Assistant Secretary to the Board of Visitors.

ELECTION OF GLENN B. UPDIKE, JR., AND E. MASSIE VALENTINE TO FILL VACANCIES ON THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In compliance with the 1975 Manual of the Board of Visitors, Dr. Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and Mr. E. Massie Valentine were elected to fill the unexpired terms of Dr. DuPont Guerry and Mr. George Palmer on the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee consists of the following: Rector Fred G. Pollard, William M. Dudley, Carl W. Smith, Glenn B. Updike, Jr., and E. Massie Valentine.

APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEESFINANCE COMMITTEESTUDENT AFFAIRS AND ATHLETICS COMMITTEEHEALTH AFFAIRS COMMITTEEBUILDINGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEEEDUCATIONAL POLICY COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced his appointments to the Standing Committees to serve until the Annual Meeting in June 1982. The committee assignments are as follows:

The Rector, Mr. Fred G. Pollard, is an Ex Officio member of all committees.

AUTHORIZATION FOR PURCHASE OF PROPERTY AT 304 PARK PLACE
--------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted with Mr. E. Massie Valentine abstaining:

RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that, subject to the approval of the Governor of Virginia, the appropriate officers of the University be, and they are hereby, authorized to accept the offer of William Massie Smith as Executor for the estate of Doris D. Collins to sell to the University the real property located at 304 Park Place, and such officers are further authorized to do all things necessary to consummate closing the purchase of such property.

RESPONSE FROM THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS TO THE PROPOSAL MADE BY THE AD HOC INVESTMENT POLICY RESEARCH COMMITTEE OF THE STUDENT COUNCIL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Robert Hatcher reported to the Board the following response of the Finance Committee to the proposal made by the Ad Hoc Investment Policy Research Committee of the Student Council:

In fulfilling its fiduciary responsibility, the Board must act in a prudent manner on all investment matters. The Board believes that the University's endowment is not a forum for advancing social and moral causes, however, it naturally has concern with regard to the integrity and policies of organizations with which it associates in the course of its activities. This concern extends to the companies in which the University has an investment interest.

The Board has previously adopted a proxy voting policy which provides for consideration of proxy petitions received from individuals or groups within the University community. In doing so, the Board has recognized the need to examine and study social issues raised in shareholder proxy proposals. Few petitions have been received during the past three years in part because of the difficulty members of the community experience in monitoring and evaluating the many proxy issues which arise each year. The report of the Student Council Ad Hoc Investment Policy Research Committee indicates that there remains strong interest within the University community in proxy issues involving social responsibility in investments. The Board is appreciative of the interest of the Student Council and its public and intends to seriously study their proposition. With the help of the administrative staff of the University, the Finance Committee will take under advisement the preliminary recommendations of the Student Council Ad Hoc Investment Policy Research Committee. I would ask that Student Council understand that their report is presented to the Board of Visitors where sits seven new Members to the Board who are not all that familiar with our procedures and are not in a position to come to any quick decisions on matters of such great import. The Board will give earnest consideration to this matter, and the Finance Committee will discuss the proposal at its next meeting this spring.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Gary K. Ackers as Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, for the period January 1, 1982 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Shirley D. Brinsfield as Visiting Lecturer in Business Administration, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Scott S. Cowen as Rust Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Steven R. Donaldson as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Ms. Joan R. Echtenkamp as Instructor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for the period January 1, 1982 through December 30, 1982.Mr. George W. Foster, Jr. as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. William K. Hube, Jr. as Lecturer, General Faculty, for the period January 18, 1982 through January 17, 1983.Mr. Thomas M. Humphrey as Visiting Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Ms. Cherie L. Kitchell as Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective February 1, 1982.Dr. Gregg A. Korbon as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective February 1, 1982.Ms. Yuanshen Liu as Lecturer in Chinese, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Ms. Suzanne Louis as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 25, 1982.Ms. Alice T. Meyer as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Mihajlo Mihajlov as Visiting Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Stephen L. Percy as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Todd H. Schill as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period January 21, 1982 through June 30, 1982.Ms. Sandra L. Schmidt as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Marika S. Simms as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period February 16, 1982 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Mary P. Thompson as Visiting Associate Professor of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1982 through November 30, 1982.Mr. Harold E. Wilhoit as Lecturer in Education, for one academic year, effective January 1, 1982.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and he is hereby elected to the named chair as shown below:Mr. Richard M. Rorty as William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities, effective September 1, 1982.(b) Leave of Absence for ChairholderMr. Richard M. Rorty, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of Humanities, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to pursue research at Princeton University.(c) Retirements of ChairholdersMr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, effective May 31, 1982. He has been a member of the faculty since 1943.Mr. Frederick D. Nichols, Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1982. He has been a member of the faculty since 1950.Mr. Louis T. Rader, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective May 31, 1982. He has been a member of the faculty since 1969.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Mr. Dieter G. Altenpohl as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Anthony M. Ames as Visiting Associate Professor of Architecture, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Dr. Narinder S. Arora as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for the period April 1, 1982 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Richard S. Benner as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Sharon Berk as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. John D. Bonvillian as Assistant Professor of Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Sydney S. Breese, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for one year, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. James M. Campbell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Deborah A. Carver as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Clemons Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Rion A. Causey as Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Alexander N. Christakis as Associate Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. L. Gayle Cooper as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Martin R. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John J. Dobbins as Assistant Professor of Art History, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. R. Bruce Douglass as Visiting Associate Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Mary C. Dunnigan as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for four years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Michael S. Forbes as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective April 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas J. Gates as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Julia H. Green as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James D. Hamilton as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert B. Hitchner as Acting Assistant Professor of History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James M. Hogan as Acting Assistant Professor of Speech Communication, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Edward Howorka as Assistant Professor of Computer Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Laura C. Huang as Associate Professor of Pharmacology, General Faculty, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Robert R. Humphris as Research Professor, General Faculty, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Frank P. Hunter, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Research Director, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Cornelia A. Kelley as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Akira Kikuchi as Visiting Scholar in English, for one year, effective October 1, 1982.Ms. Yun-fun Lai as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Roger M. Leachman as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. R. Craig Lefebvre as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Linda L. Lester as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. S. Gregory Lipton as Associate Professor of Planning, School of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David G. Lynn as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Allen D. Majewski as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg, for three years, effective February 1, 1982.Mr. John M. Markwood as Assistant Professor of Education, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Alexis J. Megibow as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Mary D. Neufeld as Assistant Professor of Drama, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Steven L. Nock as Assistant Professor of Sociology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Neil I. Payton as Assistant Professor of Architecture, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Lester S. Pearlstein as Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, School of Education, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982.Ms. Angelika S. Powell as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Reuben M. Rainey as Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James W. Ramsey, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert J. Ribando as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Larry G. Richards as Research Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective June 1, 1982.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner as Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/ Salem, part-time, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Charles F. Schmidt, Jr. as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective January 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas L. Schumacher as Associate Professor of Architecture, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. J. M. Schumpert as Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Michael R. Sexton as Assistant Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Jonathan Skinner as Acting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter A. Stark, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Kanubhai D. Suthar as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John H. A. Watson as Visiting Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. King P. White as Assistant Professor of Engineering Science and Systems, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Paul N. Adler from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Arnold P. Aronson from Assistant Professor of Drama to Associate Professor of Drama, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. James C. Ballenger from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Benjamin K. Bennett from Associate Professor of German to Professor of German, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Robert A. Bloodgood from Assistant Professor of Anatomy to Associate Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Robert F. Bryan from Associate Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Michael L. Coates from Assistant Professor of Family Medicine to Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Daniel J. Cox from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. George B. Craddock from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Patricia R. Crook from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Randall T. Curnow from Associate Professor of Medicine to Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Paul M. Dee from Associate Professor of Radiology to Professor of Radiology, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Ellin K. Deese from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Associate Professor, General Faculty, for five years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Michael J. Demetsky from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Cora Diamond from Associate Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Shelby C. Dickerson from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Thomas S. Edwards from Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine to Clinical Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Suzanne U. Emerson from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Charles P. Emerson, Jr. from Associate Professor of Biology to Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. G. Reza Farsad from Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem Program to Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Philip S. Fogg from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke/Salem Program to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Jackson E. Fowler, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Urology to Associate Professor of Urology, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Terry A. Francis from Instructor in Chemistry to Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. James R. Freeland from Associate Professor of Business Administration to Professor of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. W. Otto Friesen from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. John L. Gainer from Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James N. Galloway from Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences to Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Reginald H. Garrett from Associate Professor of Biology to Professor of Biology, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Omer A. Gianniny from Associate Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Annette Gibbs from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Thomas L. Gorsuch from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. D. Burke Grandjean from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. John E. Greenlee from Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas M. Guterbock from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Albert J. Hagy from Associate Professor of Family Practice, Roanoke Program to Professor of Family Practice, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Bradley T. Hargroves from Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. David P. Harrington from Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Richard B. Hays from Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Family Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. J. Owen Hendley from Associate Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. William R. Hobbs from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for two years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Robert H. Hodge, Jr. from Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Associate Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Jack A. Holt from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Stuart S. Howards from Professor of Urology and Associate Professor of Physiology to Professor of Urology and Professor of Physiology, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. John W. Hoyt from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Barbara A. Jackson from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Michael E. Johns from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology to Professor of Otolaryngology, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Donald A. Keefer from Assistant Professor of Anatomy to Associate Professor of Anatomy, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Janet L. Kern from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Parry J. Knauss from Instructor in Nursing to Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Rebecca D. Kneedler from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. P. David Kovacs from Assistant Professor of Classics to Associate Professor of Classics, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. W. Michael Kuehl from Associate Professor of Microbiology to Professor of Microbiology, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John C. Lafley from Instructor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective January 1, 1982.Dr. Matthew J. Lambert from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Richard W. Lindsay from Associate Professor of Medicine to Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Peter I. Lobo from Associate Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. P. Kyle McCarter, Jr. from Associate Professor of Religious Studies to Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Peter A. Metcalf from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Edward D. Miller from Associate Professor of Anesthesiology to Professor of Anesthesiology, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Lillian J. Morris from Clinical Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective February 1, 1982.Mr. Ralph G. O'Brien from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. James R. O'Reagan from Instructor in Orthopedics and Rehabilitation to Research Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation, for one year, effective February 1, 1982.Mr. Michael D. Orlansky from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Duane J. Osheim from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. William W. Roberts, Jr. from Associate Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Professor of Applied Mathematics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. David W. Robinson from Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke/Salem Program to Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Anne M. Robinson from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. John C. Rowlingston from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. David L. Rubin from Associate Professor of French to Professor of French, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Roger A. Ruth from Assistant Professor of Otolaryngology to Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Abdulaziz A. Sachedina from Assistant Professor of Religious Studies to Associate Professor of Religious Studies, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. W. Michael Scheld from Assistant Professor of Medicine to Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Donald Shotton from Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg to Professor of Family Medicine, Lynchburg, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Roland H.E. Simon from Assistant Professor of French to Associate Professor of French, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Neil H. Snyder from Assistant Professor of Commerce to Associate Professor of Commerce, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Christie D. Stephenson from Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Harold R. Strang from Associate Professor of Education to Professor of Education, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Michael D. Sussman from Assistant Professor of Orthopedics and Pediatrics to Associate Professor of Orthopedics and Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mrs. Ann G. Taylor from Associate Professor of Nursing to Professor of Nursing, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Frank E. Taylor from Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Lawrence E. Thomas from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Michael O. Thorner from Associate Professor of Medicine to Professor of Medicine, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Stephen T. Thornton from Associate Professor of Physics to Professor of Physics, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Trinh X. Thuan from Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Associate Professor of Astronomy, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Mano J. Thubrikar from Research Assistant Professor of Surgery to Research Associate Professor of Surgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Harold N. Ward from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Franklin E. Wawner, Jr. from Research Associate Professor of Materials Science, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Research Professor of Materials Science, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1982.Dr. Wayne H. Wilson from Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem to Associate Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Richard G. Wilson from Associate Professor of Architectural History to Associate Professor of Architectural History, effective September 1, 1982.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Ms. Melinda Blauvelt, Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to finish some research projects.Mr. Richard F. DeMong, Associate Professor of Commerce, for the period January 25, 1982 through May 31, 1982, to attend the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk.Ms. Marcy R. Edelstein, Assistant Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to complete a series of drawings.Mr. Paul J. Hopkins, Associate Professor of Religious Studies, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, for research on a Fullbright Scholarship.Mr. Robert E. Johnson, Associate Professor of Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective January 15, 1982, for research and writing.Mr. Paul Light, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1982, for research at the American Enterprise Institute.Mr. Keith P.F. Moxey, Associate Professor of Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, to pursue research on an Humboldt Fellowship in Berlin.Dr. Ferid Murad, Professor of Medicine and Professor of Pharmacology, for the period January 1, 1982 through June 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Ms. Gladys E. Saunders, Assistant Professor of French, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1982, for research.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Joseph V. Anderson from Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce to Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Jack W. Davidson from Acting Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. Robert E. Emery from Acting Assistant Professor of Psychology to Assistant Professor of Psychology, for the period January 1, 1982 through May 31, 1985.Dr. William H. Grey from Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State to Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, for three years, effective February 1, 1982.Ms. Marianne M. Kosiewicz from Assistant Professor, Special Education to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Assistant Dean of Admissions, for three years, effective January 1, 1982.Ms. Vanessa D. Saunders from Acting Assistant Professor of English to Assistant Professor of English, for the period November 1, 1981 through May 31, 1985.Dr. Mark Siegler from Visiting Scholar in Religious Studies and Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine to Visiting Scholar in Religious Studies and Visiting Associate Professor of Medicine, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1981.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Hamilton has been a member of the faculty since 1963.Dr. Anne F. Hunter, Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1982. Dr. Hunter has been a member of the faculty since 1972.Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Kaulback has been a member of the faculty since 1943.Mr. Richard A. Meade, Professor of Education, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Meade has been a member of the faculty since 1934.Mr. Frederick D. Nichols, Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Nichols has been a member of the faculty since 1950.Mr. Frederick E. Nolting, University Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Nolting has been a member of the faculty since 1971.Mr. Louis T. Rader, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, effective May 31, 1982. He has been a member of the faculty since 1969.Mr. A. Vincent Shea, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective May 31, 1982. Mr. Shea has been a member of the faculty since 1936.Dr. Philip C. Trout, Associate Professor of Orthopedics, Roanoke/Salem Program, effective December 30, 1981. Dr. Trout has been a member of the faculty since 1969.

ELECTION OF PROFESSORS EMERITI
------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following persons be and they are hereby elected Professor Emeritus:Mr. Howard L. Hamilton, Professor of Biology.Mr. Frank S. Kaulback, Jr., Carman G. Blough Professor of Accounting, School of Commerce.Mr. Richard A. Meade, Professor of Education.Mr. Frederick D. Nichols, Cary D. Langhorne Professor of Architecture.Mr. Frederick E. Nolting, University Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs.Mr. Louis T. Rader, Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School.Mr. A. Vincent Shea, Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Robert A. Bageant, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective March 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Keith Beven, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, effective June 30, 1982, to return to England.Mr. Robert E. Cape, Associate Professor, General Faculty, and Director of Academic Computing, effective January 29, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Carolyn J. Collins, Assistant Professor of Microbiology, General Medical Faculty, effective April 30, 1982 to accept another position.Mr. Richard C. Collins, Chairman, Division of Urban and Environmental Planning, School of Architecture, effective January 15, 1982. Separating from administrative position only.Ms. Mary V. Compton, Acting Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, and Acting Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, effective January 31, 1982, to accept another position.Ms. Susan O. Cooper, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective May 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. H. Branch Coslett, Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. Ralph G. Dacey, Jr., Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, effective December 31, 1981, to serve residency in Plymouth, England.Mr. Ernesto I. Freire-Hoyle, Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, effective January 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mr. William B. Guilford, University Registrar, effective March 1, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Stephen J. Hegner, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective May 31, 1982, to conduct research.Mr. R. LaVar Huntzinger, Assistant Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1982, to accept another position.Mrs. Harriet Lindemann, Clinical Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective April 30, 1982, for personal reasons.Mr. Joel M. Linden, Research Assistant Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology, effective December 31, 1981, to accept another position.Mr. James A. McPherson, Associate Professor of English, effective May 31, 1982, for personal reasons.Dr. Marc E. Read, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective June 30, 1982, to accept another position.Dr. C. Michael Sheppa, Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective January 15, 1982, to enter private practice.Ms. H. June Stevens, Instructor in Internal Medicine, effective December 31, 1981, for graduate studies.Mr. James W. Zerwick, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective February 5, 1982, for personal reasons.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Acting University Registrar, for the period March 1, 1982 through June 30, 1982.Mr. Ronald A. Bouchard as Assistant Vice President for Personnel Administration, for three years, effective December 1, 1981.Mr. Frederick Hartt as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Hortense B. Hinton as Associate Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Cecil Y. Lang as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period June 1, 1982, through May 31, 1983.Mr. Robert W. Langbaum as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective January 16, 1982.Mr. William H. Lucy as Chairman, Division of Urban and Environmental Planning, School of Architecture, for the period January 16, 1982 through May 31, 1984.Mr. Richard M. Rorty as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Todd H. Schill as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for the period January 21, 1982, through June 30, 1982.Mr. Larry Smith as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for the period February 16, 1982 through March 15, 1982.Mr. Peter A. Stark, Jr. as Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John H. A. Watson as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one semester, effective September 1, 1982.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Dr. James W. Craig as Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Dr. Charles L. Crockett as Assistant Dean, Roanoke Program, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Robert D. Cross as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Mr. Hugh E. Davis as Assistant Dean for Veterans Affairs, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Ms. Alexandria J. DeLoatch as Assistant Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for one year, effective August 1, 1982.Mr. Edgar A. Eldridge as Director of Financial Aid, for four years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas E. Ewert as Director of Blandy Farm, for three years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Dante Germino as Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Annette Gibbs as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Burton J. Litman as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Alexis J. Megibow as Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Dr. Daniel N. Mohler as Associate Dean, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Edwin W. Pullen as Associate Dean and Director of Admissions, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Andrew P. Sage as Chairman, Department of Engineering Science and Systems, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective September 1, 1981.Mr. William G. Shenkir as Dean, McIntire School of Commerce, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Jerry G. Short as Associate Dean for Educational Program Development, School of Medicine, for five years, effective May 1, 1982.Mr. Lawrence A. Simpson as Director, Office of Career Planning and Placement, for five years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. John W. Stewart as Assistant Dean for Educational Programs, for three years, effective September 1, 1982.Ms. Sybil R. Todd as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective July 1, 1982.Mr. Thomas G. Williamson as Chairman, Department of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for five years, effective September 1, 1981.

DEATH OF DR. S. ELMER BEAR
--------------------------

DEATH OF MR. WILLIAM F. BEAZER
------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. STEPHEN B. EDWARDS
-------------------------------

DEATH OF MR. VALFRID OSVALDS
----------------------------

DEATH OF DR. LEO PEPA
---------------------

DEATH OF MR. STANLEY S. STAHL
-----------------------------

DEATH OF DR. DONALD J. WRIGHT
-----------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DUPONT GUERRY, III, PROFESSORSHIP IN OPHTHALMOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the DuPont Guerry, III, Professorship in Ophthalmology, this Chair to become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to DuPont Guerry, III, M.D., who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A SECOND BROWN-FORMAN PROFESSORSHIP IN THE FIELD OF THE OCCUPANT CHOSEN FOR THE CHAIR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Brown-Forman Professorship in the field of the occupant chosen for the Chair. This Chair will become effective on such date as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the Brown-Forman Distillers Corporation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN ANESTHESIOLOGY
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Anesthesiology. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Department of Surgery, University of Virginia School of Medicine, a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Surgery. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation that made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN PAIN MANAGEMENT
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that there is hereby established in the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, a Chair to be known as the Distinguished Professorship in Pain Management. The Board is grateful to Dr. Harold Carron and to the University of Virginia Medical School Foundation who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on construction. It outlined 29 projects in the planning stage, and 17 projects in the construction stage.

REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE MATTERS
-----------------------------

The President reported on a number of bills passed by the 1982 General Assembly that will affect the operation of the University. These include an Act which will permit the University to sell approximately 16 acres of the Blue Ridge property, a risk management bill, and a bill regulating tuition rate policy.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$ 382,727.92

Free Service

2,503,955.32

\-------------

Total

$2,886,683.24

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Bad Debts

\- 0 -

Free Service

357,426.30

\-------------

Total

$357,426.30

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital schedule numbers 431 through 436 for the months of December, 1981 and January, 1982 totaling $2,886,683.24, and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 479 through 487 for the months of December, 1981 and January, 1982 totaling $357,426.30 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$ 382,727.92Free Service2,503,955.32-------------Total$2,886,683.24Blue Ridge Hospital:Bad Debts- 0 -Free Service357,426.30-------------Total$357,426.30 RESOLVED FURTHER, that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

SCHEDULE OF MEETING DATES FOR 1983
----------------------------------

January 20, 21, and 22, 1983

Charlottesville

March 24, 25, and 26, 1983

Charlottesville

June 2, 3, and 4, 1983

Charlottesville

October 6, 7, and 8, 1983

Charlottesville

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following dates for the 1983 meetings of the Board be and they are hereby approved: January 20, 21, and 22, 1983CharlottesvilleMarch 24, 25, and 26, 1983CharlottesvilleJune 2, 3, and 4, 1983CharlottesvilleOctober 6, 7, and 8, 1983Charlottesville

APPROVAL OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS POLICY
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Vice President for Business and Finance be and he is hereby authorized to:1. Charge off as bad debts small balances up to $50.00, except for the University of Virginia Hospital Accounts which shall be governed by separate Board of Visitors resolution.2. Refer to the Board of Visitors any amounts (other than University of Virginia Hospital Accounts) $50.00 and over which are to be written off as bad debts.3. Refer to the President any amounts $50.00 and over which are to be compromised, settled, or discharged under current statutes.

MODIFICATION OF THE RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING THE RANK OF PROFESSOR EMERITUS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the resolution establishing the rank of Professor Emeritus adopted on June 7, 1957, and modified on March 29, 1974 and also on January 26, 1980, be further modified to include candidates who are full professors retiring after attaining the age of sixty after at least fifteen years of service, and Chairholders or University Professors after five continuous years in the University of Virginia.

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 81-82

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 82-83

Actual 81-82

Amt Inc

Percent of Inc

Prop 82-83

Tuition and Required Fees

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time

$1,130

$204

18.1%

$1,334

$2,630

$ 630

24.0%

$3,260

Medical Technology

760

100

13.2%

860

760

100

13.2%

860

Professional Schools

Graduate Bus.-MBA

1,950

360

18.5%

2,310

4,180

1,030

24.6%

5,210

Law - JD

1,600

450

28.1%

2,050

3,700

850

23.0%

4,550

Medicine - MD

3,380

530

15.7%

3,910

7,030

1,080

15.4%

8,110

Other Charges

Student Act. Fee

16

0

\--

16

16

0

\--

16

Architecture - Act. Fee

5

2

40.0%

7

5

2

40.0%

7

Commerce-Act. Fee

5

0

\--

5

5

0

\--

5

Commerce-Computer & Publication Fee

45

0

\--

45

45

0

\--

45

Education - Act. Fee

2

0

\--

2

2

0

\--

2

Engineering - Act. Fee

4

0

\--

4

4

0

\--

4

Grad. Bus.- Computer & Publication Fee

240

0

\--

240

240

0

\--

240

Law School - Act. Fee

22

0

\--

22

22

0

\--

22

Medicine - Act. Fee

0

20

N/A

20

0

20

N/A

20

Nursing - Student Fee

40

(20)

(50.0%)

20

40

(20)

(50.0%)

20

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to the University Division be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1982: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 81-82Amt IncPercent of IncProp 82-83Actual 81-82Amt IncPercent of IncProp 82-83Tuition and Required FeesUndergraduate and Graduate Schools-Full Time$1,130$20418.1%$1,334$2,630$ 63024.0%$3,260Medical Technology76010013.2%86076010013.2%860Professional SchoolsGraduate Bus.-MBA1,95036018.5%2,3104,1801,03024.6%5,210Law - JD1,60045028.1%2,0503,70085023.0%4,550Medicine - MD3,38053015.7%3,9107,0301,08015.4%8,110Other ChargesStudent Act. Fee160--16160--16Architecture - Act. Fee5240.0%75240.0%7Commerce-Act. Fee50--550--5Commerce-Computer & Publication Fee450--45450--45Education - Act. Fee20--220--2Engineering - Act. Fee40--440--4Grad. Bus.- Computer & Publication Fee2400--2402400--240Law School - Act. Fee220--22220--22Medicine - Act. Fee020N/A20020N/A20Nursing - Student Fee40(20)(50.0%)2040(20)(50.0%)20

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Virginian

Non-Virginian

Actual 1981-82

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1982-83

Actual 1981-82

Amt. of Inc.

Percent of Inc.

Proposed 1982-83

Tuition and Required Fees

Full-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate

$820

$244

29.7%

$1,064

$1,240

$328

26.5%

$1,568

Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.

Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour

$ 30

$ 6

20.0%

$ 36

$47.50

$9.50

20.0%

$ 57

Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour

$ 10

$ 2

20.0%

$ 12

$ 15

$ 3

20.0%

$ 18

Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEU

Dormitory Rent

$528

$ 72

13.6%

$ 600

$ 528

$ 72

13.6%

$ 600

Other Fees

Application Fee

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

$ 15

\-

\-

$ 15

Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

$ 75

\-

\-

$ 75

The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the tuition and required fees and other charges applicable to Clinch Valley College be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective July 1, 1982: VirginianNon-VirginianActual 1981-82Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1982-83Actual 1981-82Amt. of Inc.Percent of Inc.Proposed 1982-83Tuition and Required FeesFull-time Students (12 semester hours or more per semester) Session Rate$820$24429.7%$1,064$1,240$32826.5%$1,568Students taking more than 18 credit hours per semester must pay for the additional hours at the part-time tuition rates listed below.Part-time Students (less than 12 semester hours per semester) Rate per semester hour$ 30$ 620.0%$ 36$47.50$9.5020.0%$ 57Off-Campus Instruction Credit Courses - Rate per semester hour$ 10$ 220.0%$ 12$ 15$ 320.0%$ 18Non-Credit Courses - Rate per CEUDormitory Rent$528$ 7213.6%$ 600$ 528$ 7213.6%$ 600Other FeesApplication Fee$ 15--$ 15$ 15--$ 15Applied Music Fee - Rate per semester hour$ 75--$ 75$ 75--$ 75The Applied Music Fee is applicable to Applied Music Courses 104, 105, 108, 109, 204, 205, 304, 305, 404 and 405 and is in addition to all other tuition and required fees.

INCREASE IN TUITION AND REQUIRED FEES AND OTHER CHARGES FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Current 1981-82

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1982-83

Undergraduate Per Semester Hour

$ 37.00

3.00

8.1%

$40.00

Graduate Per Semester Hour

40.00

4.00

10.0%

44.00

Graduate Courses as Part of Off-Grounds Degree Programs Per Semester Hour

55.00

(5.00)

(9.1%)

50.00

Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour

37.00

13.00

35.1%

50.00

Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs

10.00

10.00

Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only

5.00

5.00

Change of Status Fee

5.00

5.00

Transcript Fee

2.00

2.00

Late Exam Fee

5.00

5.00

TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration

10.00

10.00

Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.

Other contracted course rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following charges for the Division of Continuing Education shall supersede all previous schedules, effective for the 1982-83 Session, and they are hereby approved: Current 1981-82Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1982-83Undergraduate Per Semester Hour$ 37.003.008.1%$40.00Graduate Per Semester Hour40.004.0010.0%44.00Graduate Courses as Part of Off-Grounds Degree Programs Per Semester Hour55.00(5.00)(9.1%)50.00Special Students Registering through and admitted by the Division of Continuing Education in On-Grounds Courses per semester hour37.0013.0035.1%50.00Admission Fee in Certificate and Special Programs10.0010.00Registration Fee - Northern Virginia Only5.005.00Change of Status Fee5.005.00Transcript Fee2.002.00Late Exam Fee5.005.00TIAA Fee for Students Registered in Off-Campus Degree Programs Per Registration10.0010.00Other Miscellaneous Fees as Established to Recover Expenses such as Laboratory, Materials, etc., on a Basis of Estimated Cost.Other contracted course rates approved on a basis consistent with University contracting policies and procedures

ALLOCATION OF REQUIRED FEES
---------------------------

Actual 1981-82

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed 1982-83

Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall

$ 15.00

$ -0-

\--

$ 15.00

University Transit

40.00

3.00

7.5%

43.00

Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area

25.00

\-0-

\--

25.00

Fringe Benefits

105.00

\-0-

\--

105.00

Athletics

55.00

5.00

9.1%

60.00

Student Health

100.00

10.00

10.0%

110.00

University Union

19.00

5.00

26.3%

24.00

University Union Programs

5.00

5.00

100.0%

10.00

Class Affiliation

4.00

\-0-

\--

4.00

Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities

12.00

\-0-

\--

12.00

TOTAL

$380.00

$ 28.00

7.4%

$408.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the fee component of the tuition and required fees be and it is hereby established, effective July 1, 1982, in the amount of $408;BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the fee component be allocated for the 1982-83 Session as follows: Actual 1981-82Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed 1982-83Pledged for amortization of bond issue for University Hall$ 15.00$ -0---$ 15.00University Transit40.003.007.5%43.00Pledged to support capital outlay for student commons area25.00-0---25.00Fringe Benefits105.00-0---105.00Athletics55.005.009.1%60.00Student Health100.0010.0010.0%110.00University Union19.005.0026.3%24.00University Union Programs5.005.00100.0%10.00Class Affiliation4.00-0---4.00Pledged for amortization of Recreational Facilities12.00-0---12.00TOTAL$380.00$ 28.007.4%$408.00

INCREASE IN THE FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE UNIVERSITY
-------------------------------------------------------

1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

1982-83 Proposed

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Maximum Compensation (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

General Faculty

Professor

$24,400

$26,200

\-

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

20,200

21,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

16,400

17,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

11,600

12,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Pre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Department Head

$32,600

$35,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Professor

28,400

30,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Associate Professor

23,600

25,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

18,800

20,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Instructor

14,800

15,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Junior Staff (3)

Research Assistant

$11,000

$11,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Associate

15,400

15,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant

15,400

15,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician A

10,200

11,000

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician B

12,400

13,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Statistician C

15,000

16,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Sponsored Programs (3)

Research Scientist/Eng A(4) (4)Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

$17,000

18,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng B(4)

19,800

21,400

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Scientist/Eng C(4)

23,000

24,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng A (4)

22,000

23,800

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Director A (4)

25,200

27,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng B (4)

25,200

27,200

\-

(2)

1 year

Research Director B (4)

34,800

37,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Principal Scientist/Eng (4)

34,800

37,600

\-

(2)

1 year

Senior Scientist/Eng C (4)

26,400

28,600

\-

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plans applicable to the teaching and research staff in the University Division be and they are hereby approved, effective July 1, 1982: 1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated. 1982-83 ProposedNormal Entrance Rate (1)Maximum Compensation (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalGeneral FacultyProfessor$24,400$26,200-(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor20,20021,800-(2)1 yearAssistant Professor16,40017,600-(2)1 yearInstructor11,60012,400-(2)1 yearPre-Clinical Faculty (3) (3)Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis. Department Head$32,600$35,200-(2)1 yearProfessor28,40030,600-(2)1 yearAssociate Professor23,60025,400-(2)1 yearAssistant Professor18,80020,200-(2)1 yearInstructor14,80015,800-(2)1 yearJunior Staff (3)Research Assistant$11,000$11,800-(2)1 yearResearch Associate15,40015,400-(2)1 yearSenior Astronomy & Physics Research Assistant15,40015,400-(2)1 yearResearch Statistician A10,20011,000-(2)1 yearResearch Statistician B12,40013,200-(2)1 yearResearch Statistician C15,00016,200-(2)1 yearSponsored Programs (3)Research Scientist/Eng A(4) (4)Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only. $17,00018,400-(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng B(4)19,80021,400-(2)1 yearResearch Scientist/Eng C(4)23,00024,800-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng A (4)22,00023,800-(2)1 yearResearch Director A (4)25,20027,200-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng B (4)25,20027,200-(2)1 yearResearch Director B (4)34,80037,600-(2)1 yearPrincipal Scientist/Eng (4)34,80037,600-(2)1 yearSenior Scientist/Eng C (4)26,40028,600-(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis unless otherwise indicated.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

Amounts in this category are stated on an annual (12-month) basis.

Positions applicable to Research Laboratories for the Engineering Sciences (RLES) only.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
----------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1982-83

Normal Entrance Rate (1)

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$19,400

$20,400

(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$16,800

$17,600

(2)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$13,800

$14,600

(2)

1 year

Instructor

$11,000

$11,600

(2)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff of Clinch Valley College be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1982: Rank1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Amounts are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1982-83Normal Entrance Rate (1)Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$19,400$20,400(2) (2)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$16,800$17,600(2)1 yearAssistant Professor$13,800$14,600(2)1 yearInstructor$11,000$11,600(2)1 year

Amounts are stated on a session basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN FACULTY SALARY SCALE FOR THE DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Normal entrance rates for 1981-82 are stated on a session basis.

Proposed 1982-83

Normal Entrance Rate (2) (2)Normal entrance rates for 1982-83 are stated on an annual (12 month) basis.

Normal Increment

Amount

Interval

Professor

$18,800

$28,000

(3) (3)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

1 year

Associate Professor

$16,400

$22,500

(3)

1 year

Assistant Professor

$13,800

$18,000

(3)

1 year

Instructor

$11,200

$16,000

(3)

1 year

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following compensation plan applicable to the teaching and research staff in the Division of Continuing Education be and it is hereby approved, effective July 1, 1982: Rank1981-82 Normal Entrance Rate (1) (1)Normal entrance rates for 1981-82 are stated on a session basis. Proposed 1982-83Normal Entrance Rate (2) (2)Normal entrance rates for 1982-83 are stated on an annual (12 month) basis. Normal IncrementAmountIntervalProfessor$18,800$28,000(3) (3)0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions. 1 yearAssociate Professor$16,400$22,500(3)1 yearAssistant Professor$13,800$18,000(3)1 yearInstructor$11,200$16,000(3)1 year

Normal entrance rates for 1981-82 are stated on a session basis.

Normal entrance rates for 1982-83 are stated on an annual (12 month) basis.

0-15%; amounts in excess of 15% are approved as special salary actions.

INCREASE IN CLINICAL FACULTY SALARY CEILINGS: SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
----------------------------------------------------------------

Rank

Current Scale 1981-82

Proposed Scale 1982-83

State Maximum

Ceilings

State Maximum

Ceilings

Professor and Department Head

$45,000

$106,000

$48,700

$121,900

Professor and Division Head

43,000

95,100

46,400

109,400

Professor

39,200

91,900

42,300

105,700

Associate Professor and Division Head

37,600

86,400

40,600

99,400

Associate Professor

33,900

82,500

36,600

94,900

Assistant Professor

28,600

73,800

30,900

84,900

Instructor

24,900

61,100

26,900

70,300

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that subject to the approval of the Governor, the full-time Clinical Faculty Salary Ceilings shall be as follows, effective July 1, 1982: RankCurrent Scale 1981-82Proposed Scale 1982-83State MaximumCeilingsState MaximumCeilingsProfessor and Department Head$45,000$106,000$48,700$121,900Professor and Division Head43,00095,10046,400109,400Professor39,20091,90042,300105,700Associate Professor and Division Head37,60086,40040,60099,400Associate Professor33,90082,50036,60094,900Assistant Professor28,60073,80030,90084,900Instructor24,90061,10026,90070,300

INCREASE IN RESIDENTIAL HOUSING RATES FOR 1982-1983
---------------------------------------------------

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1981-82Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Piedmont Estates

1 Bedroom Apt. (7)

WS, E, O

$230

$20

9%

$250

2 Bedroom Apt. (16)

WS, E, O

$255

$25

10%

$280

3 Bedroom Houses (16)

WS, E

$290

$30

10%

$320

0

ownhouses (10) 3 BR

WS, E

$325

$35

11%

$360

armhouse (121 Mimosa)

Apt. 1, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 2, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$205

$20

10%

$225

Apt. 3, 1 Bedroom

WS, E, O

$175

$20

11%

$195

Apt. 4, 2 Bedrooms

WS, E, O

$190

$20

11%

$210

ildersleeve/Snowden

onroe Lane:

1 Bedroom (16)

WS, G, E

$190

$20

11%

$210

2 Bedroom (1)

WS, G, E

$240

$25

10%

$265

fficiency (2)

WS, G, E

$165

$15

9%

$180

nowden:

Apt. 1 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$200

$20

10%

$220

Apt. 2 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$200

$20

10%

$220

Apt. 6 (Efficiency)

WS, G, E

$165

$15

9%

$180

Apt. 101 (3BR)

WS, G, E

$300

$30

10%

$330

Apt. 103 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$240

$25

10%

$265

Apt. 201 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$200

$20

10%

$220

Apt. 202 (1BR)

WS, G, E

$200

$20

10%

$220

Apt. 203 (2BR)

WS, G, E

$240

$25

10%

$265

undry

ysotsky Cottage (3BR)

WS

$210

$20

10%

$230

E, O

pper Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

ower Alden (3BR)

WS, O

$205

$25

12%

$230

E

outh Cottage (3BR)

WS

$110

$10

9%

$120

E, O

ittle Morea (1BR)

WS, O, E

$170

$20

12%

$190

uffey Cottage (Eff.)

HP, E, WS

$145

$15

10%

$160

armhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)

\--

$100

$10

10%

$110

WS, E, O

Stadium Road (3BR)

E

$275

$25

9%

$300

WS, G

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1981-82Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Birdwood Properties

Cottage (1BR)

WS

$205

$20

10%

$225

E

Garage Apt. (2BR)

WS, E, O

$245

$25

10%

$270

Faulkner Property

Holly House (2BR)

WS, E, O

$215

$20

9%

$235

Holly House Lower (1RM)

WS, E, O

$ 95

$10

11%

$105

Hedge House (2BR)

WS

$150

$15

10%

$165

E, O

Orchard House (5SRMS)

WS, E, O

$ 95

$10

11%

$105

Carriage House (4BR)

WS, E, O

$ 85

$10

12%

$ 95

118 Oakhurst Circle

Upper (2BR)

WS, G

$215

$20

10%

$235

E

Lower (2BR)

WS, G

$235

$25

11%

$260

E

Valley Road Property

503 Valley Road (1BR)

\--

$180

$00

0%

$180

WS, E, G

409 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$220

$00

0%

$220

WS, E, O

411 Valley Road (2BR)

\--

$220

$00

0%

$220

WS, E, G

Faculty Apartments

Apt. 11 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$220

$20

9%

$240

Apt. 12 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$215

$20

9%

$235

Apt. 14 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$210

$20

10%

$230

Apt. 15 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$205

$20

10%

$225

Apt. 21 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$155

$15

10%

$170

Apt. 22 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$160

$15

9%

$175

Apt. 23 (Eff.)

WS, E, O

$155

$15

10%

$170

Apt. 24 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$160

$15

9%

$175

Apt. 25 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$170

$15

9%

$185

Apt. 26 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$165

$15

9%

$180

Apt. 27 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$165

$15

9%

$180

Apt. 28 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$160

$15

9%

$175

Apt. 31 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$170

$15

9%

$185

Apt. 32 (1BR)

WS, E, O

$165

$15

9%

$180

Apt. 33 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$20

11%

$205

Apt. 34 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$185

$20

11%

$205

Apt. 35 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$20

11%

$200

Apt. 36 (2BR)

WS, E, O

$180

$20

11%

$200

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Montebello (3BR)

\--

$190

$20

11%

$210

WS, E, G

Upper Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$170

$15

9%

$185

Lower Mews (1BR)

HP, E, WS

$170

$15

9%

$185

Big Morea (4BR)

WS, E, O

$190

$20

11%

$210

Sunnyside (4BR)

\--

$165

$15

9%

$180

WS, O, E

Monroe Hill House (2BR)

WS, HP

$150

$15

10%

$165

E

Carrs Hill Cottage (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$ 85

$10

12%

$ 95

Hotel D (2BR)

WS, E, HP

$165

$15

9%

$180

Pavilions

Pavilion I

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion II

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion III

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion IV

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion V

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion V Annex

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion VI

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion IX

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Pavilion X (3BR)

WS, HP

$220

$25

11%

$245

E

Blue Ridge Properties

Bldg. 927 (4BR House)

$250

$25

10%

$275

WS, E, O

Bldg. 925 (2BR House)

$165

$60

36%

$225

WS, E, O

Bldg. 924 (2BR House)

$165

$60

36%

$225

WS, E, O

Bldg. 922 (3BR House)

$190

$60

32%

$250

WS, E, O

Bldg. 921 (3BR House)

$190

$60

32%

$250

WS, E, O

Bldg. 919 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$220

$55

25%

$275

Bldg. 916 (4BR House)

HP, WS, E

$195

$80

41%

$275

Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$30

20%

$180

Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$30

20%

$180

Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$150

$15

10%

$165

Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$20

11%

$210

Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$20

11%

$210

Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$20

11%

$210

Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$190

$20

11%

$210

Bldg. 917 (2BR House)

HP, WS, E

$175

$50

29%

$225

Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$45

27%

$210

Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$165

$45

27%

$210

Bldg. 903 (1BR Apt.)

HP, WS, E

$105

$10

10%

$115

Facility

Utilities furnished by UVA

WS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)

Rents 1981-82 Per Month

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Proposed Rents 1982-83 Per Month

Utilities Paid by Occupant

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 7 Double

HP, WS, E

$ 50

$ 5

10%

$ 55

Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms

12 Singles

HP, WS, E

$ 60

$ 5

8%

$ 65

Per Night

$ 8

$ 2

25%

$ 10

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the Residential Housing rates be and they are hereby approved as indicated, effective July 1, 1982: FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1981-82Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1982-83 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantPiedmont Estates1 Bedroom Apt. (7)WS, E, O$230$209%$2502 Bedroom Apt. (16)WS, E, O$255$2510%$2803 Bedroom Houses (16)WS, E$290$3010%$3200ownhouses (10) 3 BRWS, E$325$3511%$360armhouse (121 Mimosa)Apt. 1, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$180$2011%$200Apt. 2, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$205$2010%$225Apt. 3, 1 BedroomWS, E, O$175$2011%$195Apt. 4, 2 BedroomsWS, E, O$190$2011%$210ildersleeve/Snowdenonroe Lane:1 Bedroom (16)WS, G, E$190$2011%$2102 Bedroom (1)WS, G, E$240$2510%$265fficiency (2)WS, G, E$165$159%$180nowden:Apt. 1 (1BR)WS, G, E$200$2010%$220Apt. 2 (1BR)WS, G, E$200$2010%$220Apt. 6 (Efficiency)WS, G, E$165$159%$180Apt. 101 (3BR)WS, G, E$300$3010%$330Apt. 103 (2BR)WS, G, E$240$2510%$265Apt. 201 (1BR)WS, G, E$200$2010%$220Apt. 202 (1BR)WS, G, E$200$2010%$220Apt. 203 (2BR)WS, G, E$240$2510%$265undryysotsky Cottage (3BR)WS$210$2010%$230E, Opper Alden (3BR)WS, O$220$2511%$245Eower Alden (3BR)WS, O$205$2512%$230Eouth Cottage (3BR)WS$110$109%$120E, Oittle Morea (1BR)WS, O, E$170$2012%$190uffey Cottage (Eff.)HP, E, WS$145$1510%$160armhouse 250 Bypass (3BR)--$100$1010%$110WS, E, OStadium Road (3BR)E$275$259%$300WS, G FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1981-82Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1982-83 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBirdwood PropertiesCottage (1BR)WS$205$2010%$225EGarage Apt. (2BR)WS, E, O$245$2510%$270Faulkner PropertyHolly House (2BR)WS, E, O$215$209%$235Holly House Lower (1RM)WS, E, O$ 95$1011%$105Hedge House (2BR)WS$150$1510%$165E, OOrchard House (5SRMS)WS, E, O$ 95$1011%$105Carriage House (4BR)WS, E, O$ 85$1012%$ 95118 Oakhurst CircleUpper (2BR)WS, G$215$2010%$235ELower (2BR)WS, G$235$2511%$260EValley Road Property503 Valley Road (1BR)--$180$000%$180WS, E, G409 Valley Road (2BR)--$220$000%$220WS, E, O411 Valley Road (2BR)--$220$000%$220WS, E, GFaculty ApartmentsApt. 11 (2BR)WS, E, O$220$209%$240Apt. 12 (2BR)WS, E, O$215$209%$235Apt. 14 (2BR)WS, E, O$210$2010%$230Apt. 15 (2BR)WS, E, O$205$2010%$225Apt. 21 (1BR)WS, E, O$155$1510%$170Apt. 22 (1BR)WS, E, O$160$159%$175Apt. 23 (Eff.)WS, E, O$155$1510%$170Apt. 24 (1BR)WS, E, O$160$159%$175Apt. 25 (1BR)WS, E, O$170$159%$185Apt. 26 (1BR)WS, E, O$165$159%$180Apt. 27 (1BR)WS, E, O$165$159%$180Apt. 28 (1BR)WS, E, O$160$159%$175Apt. 31 (1BR)WS, E, O$170$159%$185Apt. 32 (1BR)WS, E, O$165$159%$180Apt. 33 (2BR)WS, E, O$185$2011%$205Apt. 34 (2BR)WS, E, O$185$2011%$205Apt. 35 (2BR)WS, E, O$180$2011%$200Apt. 36 (2BR)WS, E, O$180$2011%$200 FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1981-82 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1982-83 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantMontebello (3BR)--$190$2011%$210WS, E, GUpper Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$170$159%$185Lower Mews (1BR)HP, E, WS$170$159%$185Big Morea (4BR)WS, E, O$190$2011%$210Sunnyside (4BR)--$165$159%$180WS, O, EMonroe Hill House (2BR)WS, HP$150$1510%$165ECarrs Hill Cottage (2BR)WS, E, HP$ 85$1012%$ 95Hotel D (2BR)WS, E, HP$165$159%$180PavilionsPavilion IWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion IIWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion IIIWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion IVWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion VWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion V AnnexWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion VIWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion IXWS, HP$220$2511%$245EPavilion X (3BR)WS, HP$220$2511%$245EBlue Ridge PropertiesBldg. 927 (4BR House)$250$2510%$275WS, E, OBldg. 925 (2BR House)$165$6036%$225WS, E, OBldg. 924 (2BR House)$165$6036%$225WS, E, OBldg. 922 (3BR House)$190$6032%$250WS, E, OBldg. 921 (3BR House)$190$6032%$250WS, E, OBldg. 919 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$220$5525%$275Bldg. 916 (4BR House)HP, WS, E$195$8041%$275Bldg. 918A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$3020%$180Bldg. 918B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$3020%$180Bldg. 915A (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$1510%$165Bldg. 915B (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$1510%$165Bldg. 915C (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$1510%$165Bldg. 915D (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$150$1510%$165Bldg. 913A (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$2011%$210Bldg. 913B (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$2011%$210Bldg. 913C (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$2011%$210Bldg. 913D (2/3BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$190$2011%$210Bldg. 917 (2BR House)HP, WS, E$175$5029%$225Bldg. 912A (2BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$4527%$210Bldg. 912B (2Br Apt.)HP, WS, E$165$4527%$210Bldg. 903 (1BR Apt.)HP, WS, E$105$1010%$115 FacilityUtilities furnished by UVAWS (Water, Sewer) E (Electricity) O (Fuel Oil) G (Gas) HP (Heating Plant)Rents 1981-82 Per MonthAmount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseProposed Rents 1982-83 Per MonthUtilities Paid by OccupantBldg. 903 Dorm Rooms 7 DoubleHP, WS, E$ 50$ 510%$ 55Bldg. 903 Dorm Rooms12 SinglesHP, WS, E$ 60$ 58%$ 65Per Night$ 8$ 225%$ 10

INCREASE IN CONTRACT RATES FOR FOOD SERVICE, 1982-1983
------------------------------------------------------

Food Service Contract

Actual 1981-82

Amount of Increase

Percent Increase

Proposed 1982-83

7-Day (19 meals)

$1,160

$ 60

5.2%

$1,220

12-Meals per week

$ 974

$ 46

4.7%

$1,020

Flex (15 meals)

$1,100

$ 60

5.5%

$1,160

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the student contract rates for food services be and they are hereby approved as shown below, effective beginning with the Session 1982-1983: Food Service ContractActual 1981-82Amount of IncreasePercent IncreaseProposed 1982-837-Day (19 meals)$1,160$ 605.2%$1,22012-Meals per week$ 974$ 464.7%$1,020Flex (15 meals)$1,100$ 605.5%$1,160

INCREASE IN UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL DIVISION ROOM RATES, 1982-1983
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

1981-82

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Rate Proposed 1982-83

Semi-Private Room

$176.00

$ 35.00

20%

$211.00

Intensive Care Units

$293.00 to $632.00

$ 73.00 to $158.00

25%

$366.00 to $790.00

Ancillary

10%

Clinics/Emergency Room

10%

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the patient care rates for services in the University Hospital Division be and they are hereby increased by an average of 14.1%, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1982. 1981-82Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseRate Proposed 1982-83Semi-Private Room$176.00$ 35.0020%$211.00Intensive Care Units$293.00 to $632.00$ 73.00 to $158.0025%$366.00 to $790.00Ancillary10%Clinics/Emergency Room10%

INCREASE IN BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL DAILY ROOM RATES, 1982-1983
-----------------------------------------------------------

1981-82

Amount of Increase

Percent of Increase

Rate Proposed 1982-83

Semi-Private Room

$158.00

$ 23.00

15%

$181.00

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the daily rates for a semi-private room in the Blue Ridge Hospital Division be and they are hereby increased by an average of 15% as indicated below, effective at the close of business on June 30, 1982. 1981-82Amount of IncreasePercent of IncreaseRate Proposed 1982-83Semi-Private Room$158.00$ 23.0015%$181.00

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The Board accepted private gifts in the amount of $758,900, for the period January 8, 1982, through February 28, 1982, and $1,581,600 in sponsored programs for the same period.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERELECTION
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED by The Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia that the following person be and she is hereby elected to the faculty of Clinch Valley College:Ms. Vicki C. Boggs as Lecturer in Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for the period January 16, 1982 through June 30, 1982.

DIVISION OF CONTINUING EDUCATION MATTERRESIGNATION
--------------------------------------------------

The following resignation was announced: Ms. Mary P. Hamm, Lecturer in Continuing Education, effective March 25, 1982, to accept another position.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 12:05 p.m.

RCB; AGG:jb
