---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1983'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1983) October 8, 1983
================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 8, 1983

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 8, 1983
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:05 p.m., in Open Session on October 6, 1983, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, William M. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, and Gordon F. Willis. Absent: Joshua P. Darden, Jr., and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, Raymond M. Haas, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia reconvened in Open Session on October 8, 1983, at 10:00 a.m., in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Frank L. Hereford, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, C. Clarke Cunningham, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, William M. Dudley, David N. Montague, Ferman W. Perry, Carl W. Smith, James L. Trinkle, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver and Gordon F. Willis present. Absent: John S. Battle, Jr., Joshua P. Darden, Jr., and William R. Harvey. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, William H. Muller, Raymond M. Haas, Edwin E. Floyd, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of June 4, 1983, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

The following motions were unanimously adopted by vote of all Visitors present:

(a) That the Special Committee on Fraternity and Sorority Housing go into Executive Session for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.

(b) That the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 7 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.

(c) That the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 10 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (1) of the Virginia Code.

(d) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for discussion of Item Number 12 on that Committee's agenda for the discussion of investing public funds where competition or bargaining is involved when if made public initially the University's financial interests would be adversely affected as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (5) of the Virginia Code.

(e) That the Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for Item Number 13 on that Committee's agenda for the following reason: to discuss or consider the condition, acquisition, or use of real property for a public purpose if that discussion could affect the value of property owned by or desirable for ownership by the University as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (2) of the Virginia Code.

(f) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session for consultation with legal counsel pertaining to actual and potential litigation, or other legal matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (6) of the Virginia Code.

(g) That the Board of Visitors go into Executive Session to discuss or consider personnel matters involving the employment, assignment, appointment, promotion, performance, salaries and resignation of University officers, appointees or employees as provided for in Section 2.1-344 (a) (1) of the Virginia Code.

Following a recess for Executive Session of the Board of Visitors, the Open Session continued at 10:00 a.m., on Saturday, October 8, 1983.

ELECTIONS
---------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty:Mr. Kenneth S. Abraham as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Joan F. Atkin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Dalynn T. Badenhop as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Alex J. Baertschi as Associate Professor of Physiology, for three years, effective September 30, 1983.Ms. Cynthia L. Barga as Visiting Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Emily E. Batinski as Acting Assistant Professor of Classics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. James P. Bennett as Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Barbara A. Body as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Miss Mitzi L. Boilanger as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Claire P. Bolfing as Acting Assistant Professor of Commerce, for one academic year, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. Robert J. Boyle as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Hamparsum Bozdogan as Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Arthur L. Brooks as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period September 12, 1983 through July 31, 1984.Mr. Roger A. R. Butler as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Karen A. Chandler as Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Julia E. Connelly as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Robert P. Cook as Associate Professor of Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Jean L. Cooper as Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, for the period August 16, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Brian G. Copcutt as Lecturer, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 15, 1983.Dr. Ralph G. Dacey, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Frederick C. Davis as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Sheila R. Deitz as Research Associate Professor of Law and Psychology, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mrs. Barbara A. Dobish as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Max G. Dunn as Instructor in Sociology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Charles G. Durand as Instructor in Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Louis Faurer as Lecturer in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Larry J. Findley as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Rachel D. Fowlkes as Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mrs. Sara T. Fry as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Benjamin S. Fryser as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Donna M. Gauthier as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Philip Geiger as Assistant Professor of Art, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James T. Gill, Jr. as Acting Assistant Professor of Education, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Suzanne Guerlac as Acting Assistant Professor of French, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Seung S. Hahn as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey L. Hantman as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Sylvia K. Hart as Associate Professor of Nursing, effective December 1, 1983.Mr. Mark A. Hausman as Research Assistant Professor of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Josephine Haxton as Professor of English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. David M. Heilbronner as Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert Hemenway as Professor of English, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Kathryn J. Henley as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Nancy E. Hilt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Miss Jill E. Jaeckle as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Joli Jensen as Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. M. Dearing W. Johns as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. George Klosko as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Fred Koch as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective August 1, 1983.Dr. Bruce B. Lerman as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Elizabeth Y. Levy as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Elaine F. Litman as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Eric W. Lothman as Associate Professor of Neurology, effective August 16, 1983.Mr. Kevin R. Lynch as Assistant Professor of Pharmacology and Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Barbara D. MacCluer as Research Instructor in Mathematics, for two years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Stephen N. Macciocchi as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Catherine L. Macklin as Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Michael B. Merickel as Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Matthew Miller as Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. John A. Minke as Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Ms. Sally A. Moody as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Helen T. Nivison as Assistant Professor of Biology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Thomas W. Nygaard as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective June 1, 1983.Miss Patricia O'Brien as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Mark E. Orazem as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Daniel G. Oshman as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. William R. Pearson as Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. James F. Pontuso as Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Robert D. Powers as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Susan W. Rather as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John J. Rodden as Acting Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Communication Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1985.Mr. Cedrick B. Rucker as Instructor, General Faculty, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Amram Samuni as Visiting Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. David L. Schulenberg as Assistant Professor of Music, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David P. Schwartz as Research Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for one year, effective August 16, 1983.Dr. Ellen S. Shaw de Paredes as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Suzanna Sherry as Visiting Associate Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Kent Sinclair, Jr. as Associate Professor of Law, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. David Sive as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. David E. Smith as Research Assistant Professor, for one year, effective May 16, 1983.Dr. Zengxuan Song as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period August 1, 1983 through May 31, 1984.Mr. George C. Stafford, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Chemistry, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Lecturer, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Cheryl A. Stewart as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Forrest M. Stewart as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Joseph A. Stirt as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Dennis H. Sullivan as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. William F. Tatu as Assistant Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Mary M. Tatum as Instructor in Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for the period July 11, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mrs. Lynn E. Valentine as Instructor in Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Mary L. Vance as Research Assistant Professor of Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Alison P. Weber as Lecturer in Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Charles H. Whiteman as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Stephen C. Wilhoit as Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Edward H. Williams as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective June 1, 1983.Dr. Douglas F. Willson as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective August 1, 1983.Dr. George M. Wyatt as Associate Professor of Radiology, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Karen T. Zagona as Assistant Professor of Linguistics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CANCELLATION OF THE ELECTION OF DR. CHRISTOPHER M. ASPLIN
---------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the election of Dr. Christopher M. Asplin as Associate Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983, as approved by the Board on March 25, 1983, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF DR. DEBORAH K. DOUGLAS
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the effective date of the election of Dr. Deborah K. Douglas, as approved by the Board on March 25, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Dr. Deborah K. Douglas as Assistant Professor of Pathology, for three years, effective July 16, 1983, at an annual salary of $26,100.

CHANGE IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE ELECTION OF MR. WILLIAM J. VAN CLEVE
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the effective date of the election of Mr. William J. Van Cleve, as approved by the Board on March 25, 1983, be changed to read as follows:Mr. William J. Van Cleve as Visiting Scholar in English, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the actions relating to chairholders be and they are hereby made as shown below:a. ElectionsDr. John S. Davis, IV, as Margaret M. Trolinger Professor of Rheumatology, and Professor of Internal Medicine, effective October 1, 1983.Dr. Richard F. Edlich as Distinguished Professor of Plastic Surgery, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Robert J. Mattauch as Alice M. and Guy A. Wilson Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas E. Thompson as Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Biochemistry, effective October 1, 1983.b. Change in the Effective Date of the Election of Mr. S. James Taylor as Approved at the June 3, 1983Meeting of the BoardMr. S. James Taylor as Gordon Thomas Whyburn Professor of Mathematics, effective September 1, 1984.c. Re-election of ChairholderMr. Frederick C. Mosher as White Burkett Miller Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.d. Leaves of Absence for ChairholdersMr. Edwin S. Cohen, Joseph M. Hartfield Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to continue as part-time Counsel to the Covington and Burling Law Firm in Washington, D. C.Mr. Sidney M. Hecht, John W. Mallet Professor of Chemistry, for one year, effective September 1, 1983, to continue his association with Smith, Kline and French Laboratories.Mr. Glen O. Robinson, John C. Stennis Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to visit the Boston University School of Law.Mr. Leland B. Yeager, Paul Goodloe McIntire Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to be a Visiting Professor at George Mason University.e. Change of Title of ChairholderMr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani, from Edward R. Stettinius, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, to Harry Flood Byrd, Jr., Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs, effective July 1, 1983.f. Resignation of ChairholderMr. John N. Warfield, Harry Douglas Forsyth Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby re-elected to the faculty:Ms. Janet H. Allaire as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. E. Gifford Ammermann as Assistant Professor of Radiology and Pathology, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Milne Anderson as Visiting Professor of Mathematics, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Jaafar I. Aouad as Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Miss Varnell Armstrong as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Gary R. Atkinson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Beatrice R. Aton as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective August 1, 1983.Mr. George F. Bagby as Visiting Assistant Professor of Medical Education, for one year, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Frank E. Barham as Associate Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey T. Barth as Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Assistant Professor of Neurological Surgery, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Jack Beatson as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, and Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Sharon J. Beckman-Brindley as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Michael A. Berry as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Frank C. Biasiolli, Jr. as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Miriam C. Birdwhistell as Professor, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1980.Ms. Miriam C. Birdwhistell as Professor, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. David W. Bishop as Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Howard P. Boggess as Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Mark A. Boster as Visiting Associate Professor of Environmental Sciences, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Robert L. Brown as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Clifford E. Brubaker as Associate Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns as Assistant Professor of Pathology, and Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Suzanne K. Burge as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Anthony J. Buschi as Associate Professor of Radiology, for two months, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Dr. Ranes C. Chakravorty as Professor of Surgery, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. James G. Chandler as Professor of Surgery, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Gene E. Clapsaddle as Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Jane C. Clarke as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Patricia C. Click as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Ellen R. Clore as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James J. Condon as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Deborah C. Conway as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Giovanni Costa as Research Professor of Physics, for one month, effective May 1, 1983.Mrs. Lillie B. Crigler as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Eleanor C. Crocker as Assistant Professor, Division of Social Work, General Medical Faculty, and Clinical Assistant Professor, Behavorial Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Angela M. Davis as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Douglas E. DeGood as Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Terrence M. Dempsey as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Gerald R. Donowitz as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Leigh G. Donowitz as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Daniel J. Ehnbom as Acting Assistant Professor of South Asian Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Thomas H. Eldridge as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Mary E. Fisher as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Willard L. Fitch as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Michael S. Forbes as Research Assistant Professor of Physiology, for one year, effective April 1, 1983.Mr. Charles H. Foster as Scholar-in-Residence in Environmental Sciences, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. J. Boyd Francis as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Anthony Frankfurter as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Bernard S. Gerstman as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Joseph Gieck as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Jean W. Gillet as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Lawrence O. Goedde as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Bernard S. Goffen as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Roanoke/Salem Program, for the period May 1, 1983 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Theodore W. Graves, Jr. as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Mary Alice Gunter as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Richard D. Haas as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. James G. Hallett as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. John R. Haring, Jr. as Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Herbert Hausmaninger as Visiting Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1983 through October 31, 1983.Mr. Robert J. Havlen as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David S. Heeschen as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Susan Tyler Hitchcock as Assistant Professor of Humanities, School of Engineering and Applied Science, part-time, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. David E. Hogg as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Caroline T. Holloway as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period September 1, 1983 through September 30, 1984.Ms. Caroline T. Holloway as Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for two months, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Harold A. Hopkins as Research Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Leslie D. Hurt as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Robert W. Irvin as Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Marylin S. James as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for the period September 9, 1983 through December 8, 1983.Mr. Gary T. Johnson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Gretchen L. Kelly as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert S. Kemp as Assistant Professor of Commerce, for three academic years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Mary L. King as Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Miss Anna B. Kinney as Associate Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Cherie L. Kitchell as Assistant Professor, Division of Medical Center Social Work, General Medical Faculty, for the period February 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Craig Kochel as Research Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mrs. Peggye G. Lassiter as Assistant Professor of Nursing, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Soo Ik Lee as Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Richard A. Lehne as Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for one year, effective June 1, 1983.Mr. Randal A. Lemke as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Michael G. Levien as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. William B. Levy as Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Harvey S. Liszt as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. John W. Lloyd as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Felix J. Lockman as Research Associate Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Ann B. Loper as Research Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Jeffrey A. Lovold as Assistant Professor of Medicine, for the period July 1, 1983 through September 30, 1983.Dr. Niels Lund as Research Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Physiology, for the period June 14, 1983 through June 30, 1983.Ms. Lynne F. Mann as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Jan M. Marshall as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for the period July 1, 1983 through June 30, 1985.Dr. Victor F. Marshall as Professor of Urology, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Robert Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, and Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Robert S. Marvin as Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Jack L. Mason as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas A. Mason as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. William M. McAfee as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas L. McKeon as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas W. Newbolt as Visiting Scholar in Art, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Thomas J. Olivier as Scholar in Residence, Department of Anthropology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Lewis J. Orphanos as Assistant Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Myra D. Orth as Associate Professor of Art History, for the period September 1, 1983 through September 25, 1983.Mr. Roderic A. Parnell as Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Robert C. Patten as Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Lester S. Pearlstein as Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology. School of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Richard A. Peterson as Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Ann P. Pollard as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Marian W. Pospieszalski as Visiting Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period September 1, 1983 through January 15, 1984.Ms. Adelle M. Rengazlia as Assistant Professor of Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Morton S. Roberts as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Fred D. Rosi as Research Professor of Electrical Engineering and Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. James C. Sams as Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Cindi W. Sanborn as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Nancy F. Santilli as Assistant Professor of Neurology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Antonin Scalia as Visiting Professor of Law, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Mr. Martin V. Schneider as Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Elizabeth S. Scott as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. David A. Sensabaugh as Acting Assistant Professor of Art History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Werner Sensbach as Associate Professor, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Peter P. Sforza as Assistant Professor of Radiology, Roanoke/Salem Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Neil McD. Shawen as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Richard W. Shelly as Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Bryce L. Shriver as Visiting Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Joseph W. Snow as Visiting Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, part-time, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984.Miss Eileen T. Somerville as Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Willis J. Spaulding as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Supramaniam Srinivasan as Visiting Professor of Materials Science, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one year, effective June 1, 1983.Mr. Graham B. Strong as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Bart Taub as Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Randolph Steven Tipps as Assistant Professor of Education, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Charles C. Todd, Jr. as Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Guenter H. Treitel as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Barry E. Turner as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Diane K. Wakat as Assistant Professor of Education, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Sander Weinreb as Research Professor of Astronomy, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Lois A. Weithorn as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Law, for the period July 1, 1983 through August 31, 1983.Mr. Peter G. Whiteman as Visiting Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. R. Roy Whitney as Research Assistant Professor of Physics, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. William R. Wilkerson as Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. George G. Wright as Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective January 1, 1984.Mr. Eugene M. Wright as Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.

PROMOTIONS
----------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby promoted:Mr. Yechezkel Barenholz from Visiting Associate Professor of Biochemistry, part-time to Visiting Professor of Biochemistry, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. James P. Bracikowski from Instructor in Medicine, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. William G. Gray from Clinical Instructor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. J. Hayden Hollingsworth from Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program to Clinical Professor of Medicine, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. George W. Luedke from Clinical Instructor in Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Fernando Opere from Lecturer in Spanish to Acting Assistant Professor of Spanish, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Seymour Rabinowitz from Clinical Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Clinical Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Samuel J. Williams, II from Clinical Instructor in Surgery, Roanoke Program to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Roanoke Program, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. John F. Wolfe, Jr. from Clinical Instructor of Dentistry and Clinical Instructor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, part-time to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry and Clinical Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, part-time, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following faculty members be and they are hereby granted leave of absence:Dr. Bruce Bateman, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for the period January 1, 1984 through April 30, 1984, to study in Saudi Arabia.Mr. Mario A. Blanco, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to teach graduate courses at Northeastern University.Mrs. Melinda Blauvelt, Assistant Professor of Studio Art, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. O. Whitfield Broome, Jr., Associate Professor of Commerce, for one year, effective July 1, 1983, to serve as Executive Director of the Institute of Chartered Financial Analysts.Ms. M. Elizabeth Bruns, Assistant Professor of Pathology and Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period August 1, 1983 through September 15, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. David W. Carter, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to visit Chatham College in Pittsburgh.Mr. David B. Croll, Associate Professor of Commerce, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984, for educational leave.Ms. Alexandria J. DeLoatch, Instructor, General Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1983, to pursue Ph.D. degree.Mr. Charles E. Echols, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Kenneth G. Elzinga, Professor of Economics, for one semester, effective January 16, 1984, to be Visiting Professor at Trinity University.Mr. Paul M. Fishbane, Professor of Physics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to conduct research in Amsterdam.Mr. Robert P. Flood, Associate Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to visit Northwestern University.Mr. Burke D. Grandjean, Associate Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to accept a Fulbright grant.Mr. Thomas M. Guterbock, Associate Professor of Sociology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983, to work at the National Science Foundation.Ms. Caroline T. Holloway, Research Assistant Professor of Biochemistry, for the period September 1, 1983 through September 30, 1984, to be Visiting Scientist at DuPont Laboratories.Dr. Ann J. Johanson, Professor of Pediatrics, for one year, effective October 1, 1983, to conduct research with Genentech Corporation.Mr. W. Reed Johnson, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Gretchen L. Kelly, Assistant Professor of Nursing, General Nursing Faculty, for two months, effective September 1, 1983, for required overseas travel.Mr. Yong I. Kim, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Neurology, for the period August 17, 1983 through March 15, 1984, for research at Lund University, Sweden.Dr. Robert G. Langdon, Professor of Biochemistry, for one year, effective July 1, 1983, for research.Mr. David Little, Professor of Religious Studies, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for research.Mr. Peter C. Manson, Professor of Law, for the period September 1, 1983 through May 31, 1988, to go on half-time retirement.Dr. Samuel E. Miller, Professor of Family Medicine and Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective April 1, 1983, for semi-retirement.Mr. Patricio K. Moxey, Associate Professor of Art History, for the period September 1, 1983 through September 25, 1983, for completion of Humbolt Fellowship.Mr. Edgar Olsen, Professor of Economics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for educational leave.Dr. Robert A. Reid, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, for one year, effective July 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Christine M. Reppucci, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, for one academic year, part-time, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Rebecca W. Rimel, Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, for the period December 1, 1983 through November 30, 1984, to be Program Manager for Health at the Pew Foundation.Ms. Carolyn S. Russ, Instructor in Internal Medicine, General Medical Faculty, for one year, effective August 1, 1983, to be at the University of California, Davis.Mr. Calvin W. Sharpe, Assistant Professor of Law, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to visit Case Western Reserve University Law School.Mr. Wayne L. Shebilske, Associate Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, to be study director of the vision committee for the National Academy of Sciences.Ms. Patricia A. Taylor, Assistant Professor of Sociology, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, to accept a Fulbright grant.Mr. Vincent W. Uhl, Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, on early retirement, half-time.Mr. Richard G. Wilson, Associate Professor of Architectural History, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, for educational leave.Dr. Lester A. Wilson, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for one year, effective September 1, 1983, to extend medical disability.Mr. Tian-Chyi J. Yeh, Assistant Professor of Environmental Sciences, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. William E. Zierden, Associate Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for one semester, effective September 1, 1983, for educational research.

CANCELLATION OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF ROBERT J. MATTAUCH
------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the leave of absence of Mr. Robert J. Mattauch, Professor of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983, be and it is hereby cancelled.

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following changes of title be and they are hereby made:Mr. Harold W. Berk from Research Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Associate Professor of Radiology and Research Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, General Faculty, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. James A. Berkovec from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Norman A.G. Brenbridge from Associate Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Scott S. Bryson from Acting Assistant Professor of French to Assistant Professor of French, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Roger A. Butler from Visiting Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Chiriyankandath S. Chakko from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/Salem Program, part-time to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/Salem Program, for the period July 1, 1983 through December 31, 1984.Ms. Ellen Contini-Morava from Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for two academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Charles M. Engel from Acting Assistant Professor of Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Grace E. Fielder from Acting Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Joseph Gieck from Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, School of Education, and Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Jeffrey Hantman from Acting Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for four academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Gail K. Hart from Instructor in German, part-time to Assistant Professor of German, part-time, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. James G. Hecker from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Barry T. Hinton from Instructor in Urology to Assistant Professor of Anatomy, for three years, effective August 1, 1983.Mr. Alexander B. Horniman from Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School and Professor of Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Frank Hunter from Research Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, General Faculty, School of Medicine and Research Assistant Professor, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for the period September 1, 1983 through June 30, 1985.Mr. Michael L. Johnson from Research Assistant Professor of Pharmacology to Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, for two years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Thaddeus E. Kelly from Professor of Pediatrics to Professor of Pediatrics and Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, for three years, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Marianne M. Kosiewicz from Assistant Professor, General Faculty to Assistant Professor, General Faculty, and Lecturer in Education, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Ann B. Loper from Research Assistant Professor of Education to Research Assistant Professor of Education and Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Clinical Psychology, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Elizabeth H. Morreim from Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Nursing to Assistant Professor of Philosophy in Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Research Associate Professor, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Roger A. Ruth from Associate Professor of Otolaryngology and Assistant Professor of Audiology to Associate Professor of Otolaryngology, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Audiology, General Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Dr. Charles J. Schleupner from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/Salem Program, part-time to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Roanoke/Salem Program, for the period July 1, 1983 through December 31, 1984.Mr. Rudolf J. Schneck from Lecturer in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science to Instructor in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Science, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Joseph D. Schwartzman from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, for the period July 1, 1983 through August 31, 1984.Mr. John M. Sims, Jr. from Acting Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, The Darden School, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Daniel A. Spyker from Assistant Professor of Medicine and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. George A. Stovall from Director, Office of Resource and Policy Studies to Director of Institutional Studies, for the period July 1, 1983 through August 31, 1984.

RETIREMENTS
-----------

The following retirements were announced: Mr. Robert T. Barbee, Associate Professor of Studio Art, effective August 31, 1983. Mr. Barbee has been a member of the faculty since September 15, 1952.Dr. A. Page Booker, Associate Professor of Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective May 15, 1983. Dr. Booker has been a member of the faculty since January 1, 1977.Ms. Faith B. Gray, Lecturer, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, effective September 1, 1983. Ms. Gray has been a member of the faculty since 1980.Mr. David C. Hodge, Lecturer, General Faculty, effective July 31, 1983. Mr. Hodge has been a member of the faculty since 1966.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. William G. Anlyan, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, effective August 15, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Mark B. Ardis, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Roanoke/Salem Program, effective September 4, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Richard L. Atkinson, Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. David G. Bailey, Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology, effective June 30, 1983, for personal reasons.Dr. James C. Ballenger, Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Francis C. Biasiolli, Jr., Assistant Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, effective August 19, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Sneh P. Burman, Research Instructor in Anatomy, effective July 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Dr. Charles D. Casat, Associate Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective July 16, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Robert Chuong, Assistant Professor of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery and Assistant Professor of Dentistry, effective July 31, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Lynn J. Cook, Instructor in Pediatrics, General Medical Faculty, effective September 2, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Barbara M. Farmer, Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, effective October 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Jerry A. Fogle, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. John T. Frauens, Instructor in Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, effective August 1, 1983, to accept another position.Mrs. Marion Gillis-Olion, Assistant Professor of Education, effective August 29, 1983, for personal reasons.Dr. Elliott C. Haley, Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. William R. Hammond, Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1983, to return to private practice.Mr. John R. Haring, Jr., Visiting Associate Professor of Economics, effective May 31, 1983, to accept another position.Ms. Marilyn D. Hocking, Clinical Assistant Professor, General Medical Faculty, Division of Medical Center Social Work, effective July 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Dr. John W. Hoyt, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, effective June 30, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Lainee M. James, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, effective August 22, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Douglas P. Johnson, Associate Professor of Music, effective May 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Donald A. Keefer, Associate Professor of Anatomy, General Medical Faculty, effective July 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. James E. Kennedy, Clinical Professor of Dentistry, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Joseph Kett, Associate Dean of the College (Deanship only), effective June 30, 1983.Mrs. Janet R. Kirby, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective June 30, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Thomas A. Last, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective July 8, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. R. Craig Lefebvre, Assistant Professor, General Faculty, part-time, effective July 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Burton J. Litman, Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, effective September 30, 1983, to relinquish duties as Assistant Dean only.Dr. Jeffrey A. Lovold, Assistant Professor of Medicine, effective September 30, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Niels Lund, Research Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Physiology, effective June 30, 1983, to return to Sweden.Ms. Susan S. Lynch, Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. David G. Lynn, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Jack L. Mason, Associate Professor, General Faculty, Division of Continuing Education, effective September 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. William S. McKee, Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1983, to return to private practice.Dr. William H. Meyer, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Bernard A. Morin, Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, School of Commerce, effective September 1, 1983, to return to full-time teaching.Mr. Harvey S. Perlman, Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Gregory A. Peterson, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, Western State, effective June 30, 1983, to accept a Forensic Fellowship.Dr. Marilynn A. Prince-Fiocco, Assistant Professor of Surgery, effective June 30, 1983, to accept a Fellowship at the University of Virginia.Ms. Janis I. Reynolds, Instructor in Nursing, effective August 26, 1983, to return to school.Dr. Anthony J. Richtsmeier, Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Assistant Professor of Behavioral Medicine and Psychiatry, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Wallace P. Ritchie, Jr., Professor of Surgery, effective September 15, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Richard W. Shelly, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Roy E. Smith, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, effective August 9, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Beverly J. Smith, Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Nick Sperelakis, Professor of Physiology, effective June 30, 1983, to accept another position.Dr. Cheryl A. Stewart, Assistant Professor of Radiology, effective September 1, 1983, for personal reasons.Ms. Suzanne E. Tatro, Assistant Professor of Nursing, effective August 12, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Samuel C. Thompson, Jr., Professor of Law, effective May 31, 1983, to return to private practice.Mr. George S. Toth, Instructor, General Faculty, Alderman Library, effective July 1, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Larry A. Wolfe, Assistant Professor of Education and Assistant Professor of Medicine, General Medical Faculty, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Stephen Worchel, Professor of Psychology, effective August 31, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Herman E. Wyandt, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, effective July 15, 1983, to accept another position.

APPOINTMENTS
------------

The following appointments were announced: Mr. William C. Boynton as Associate Dean for Academic Programs, School of Commerce, for two years, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Arthur L. Brooks as Acting Assistant Dean for Student Services and Administration, Office of Afro-American Affairs, for the period September 12, 1983 through July 31, 1984.Mr. Walter J. Camp as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, and Director of Admissions, The Darden School, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Karen A. Chandler as Director of Afro-American Cultural Center, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Ms. Hortense B. Hinton as Associate Dean of Afro-American Affairs, for one year, effective August 1, 1983.Mr. William E. Jackson as Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Robert S. Kemp as Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Commerce, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Charles O. Meiburg, Jr. as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, The Darden School, for three years, effective August 1, 1983.Mr. Michael J. Peach as Assistant Dean, School of Medicine, for three years, effective October 1, 1983.Mr. Rouhollah K. Ramazani as Member of the Center for Advanced Studies, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Wayne A. Reschke as Assistant Director of Career Planning and Placement, for the period November 1, 1983 through June 30, 1984.Mr. Cedric B. Rucker as Assistant Dean of Admissions, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

The following re-appointments were announced: Ms. Ann R. Antrobus as Associate Registrar, for two years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Alan P. Batson as Director of Academic Computing, for one year, effective June 1, 1983.Ms. Miriam C. Birdwhistell as Director, Division of Medical Center Social Work, for two years, effective July 1, 1981.Ms. Miriam C. Birdwhistell as Director of Medical Center Social Work, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Miss Barbara M. Brodie as Assistant Dean for Graduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Linda K. Bunker as Chairperson, Department of Health and Physical Education, School of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Priscilla O. Jobe as Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Samuel P. Maroney, Jr. as Associate Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for one year, effective July 1, 1984.Mr. John J. Owen as Special Assistant to the Vice President for Development, for one year, effective August 16, 1983.Mr. Yale Rabin as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Architecture, for one year, effective September 1, 1983.Mrs. Cynthia F. Raines as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Programs, School of Nursing, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Ms. Sondra F. Stallard as Director of Equal Opportunity Programs, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Kenneth W. Thompson as Director of White Burkett Miller Center of Public Affairs, for five years, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Charles R. Tolbert as Director of Academic Space, for one year, effective July 1, 1983.Mr. Wesley A. Volk as Vice-Chairman of the Department of Microbiology, for five years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Vamik D. Volkan as Medical Director, Blue Ridge Hospital, for seven years, effective July 1, 1981.Mr. Jennings L. Wagoner, Jr. as Director of the Center for the Study of Higher Education, School of Education, for three academic years, effective September 1, 1983.Dr. Eugene M. Wright as Vice-Chairman, Department of Comparative Medicine, for three years, effective July 1, 1983.

DEATH OF MR. BENJAMIN C. HOWLAND
--------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE HUGH S. AND WINIFRED B. CUMMING MEMORIAL PROFESSORSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences a Chair to be known as the Hugh S. and Winifred B. Cumming Memorial Professorship in International Affairs. The Board is grateful to Mr. Hugh S. Cumming, Jr., and the late Winifred B. Cumming who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EUGENE MEYER, III, PROFESSORSHIP IN THE NEUROSCIENCES
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Eugene Meyer, III, Professorship in the Neurosciences, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to Mr. Eugene Bradley Meyer, Miss Anne Meyer, Miss Elizabeth Meyer, and Mrs. Ruth Guffee, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVID C. WILSON PROFESSORSHIP IN PSYCHIATRY
----------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the David C. Wilson Professorship in Psychiatry, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the University of Virginia Medical Alumni Association, who made the establishment of this Chair possible.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MARION MCNULTY WEAVER AND MALVIN C. WEAVER PROFESSORSHIP IN ONCOLOGY
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that there is hereby established in the School of Medicine a Chair to be known as the Marion McNulty Weaver and Malvin C. Weaver Professorship in Oncology, this Chair to become effective at such time as its funding is complete. The Board is grateful to the late Marion McNulty Weaver whose generosity made the establishment of this Chair possible.

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

University of Virginia Hospital:

Bad Debts

$2,407,821.53

Free Service

4,658,894.39

\--------------

Total

$7,066,715.92

Blue Ridge Hospital:

Acute -

Bad Debts

9,110.88

Free Service

129,394.19

\-----------

Total Acute

$ 138,505.07

TB Free Service

$ 218,287.23

TB Free Service (Outpatient)

$ 741.55

\------------

Total Blue Ridge

$ 357,533.85

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Hospital Accounts Committee be and it is hereby authorized to write off as bad debts and free service accounts listed on University of Virginia Hospital Schedule Numbers 479 through 487, meetings for the months of May 24, 1983, June 24, 1983, and July 25, 1983, totaling $7,066,715.92 and Blue Ridge Hospital Division schedule numbers 532 through 541, meeting for the months of May 24, 1983, June 24, 1983, and July 25, 1983, totaling $357,533.85 consisting of the following: University of Virginia Hospital:Bad Debts$2,407,821.53Free Service4,658,894.39--------------Total$7,066,715.92Blue Ridge Hospital:Acute -Bad Debts9,110.88Free Service129,394.19-----------Total Acute$ 138,505.07TB Free Service$ 218,287.23TB Free Service (Outpatient)$ 741.55------------Total Blue Ridge$ 357,533.85 RESOLVED FURTHER that the above action shall not be a compromise, settlement or discharge of the debts represented by such accounts.

AUTHORIZATION TO PURCHASE CENTRAL PROCESSOR FOR COMPUTER SYSTEM
---------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: WHEREAS, the University Division has budgeted for an upgrade of the central processor for the Academic Computing Center during the 1983-1984 fiscal year to provide improved academic support to instructional and research programs; andWHEREAS, funds are available for the purchase of said central processor;NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Vice President for Business and Finance be authorized to execute a contract and other documents to acquire a central processor for instructional and research programs in the University Division, at a cost not to exceed $1,938,000.

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF June 30, 1983
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/82

1982-83 Expenditures

Board (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1983-84. Approved Allocations

Unexpended Balance 06/30/83

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 41,640.30

$ 41,031.97

$ 53,000.00

$ 53,608.33

Faculty Salary Supplement

4,029.95

7,605.55

24,610.00

21,034.40

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

139,363.75

8,917.16

9,000.00

139,446.59

$ 185,034.00

$ 57,554.68

$ 86,610.00

$ 214,089.32

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 57,834.96

$ 56,302.00

$ 35,300.00

$ 36,832.96

Faculty Salary Supplement

.24

0.00

0.00

.24

\*Research and Equipment

257,008.78

182,308.46

55,000.00

129,700.32

$ 314,843.98

$ 238,610.46

$ 90,300.00

$ 166,533.52

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 75,423.62

$ 78,843.72

$122,000.00

$ 118,579.90

Faculty Salary Supplement

64,953.78

57,985.87

65,900.00

72,867.91

\*Research and Equipment

2,383.50

124.49

0.00

2,259.01

$ 142,760.90

$ 136,954.08

$187,900.00

$ 193,706.82

Physics

Student Support

$ 42,246.84

$ 14,356.01

$ 0.00

$ 27,890.83

Faculty Salary Supplement

22,829.98

11,297.00

0.00

11,532.98

\*Research and Equipment

270,830.77

40,194.79

0.00

230,635.98

$ 335,907.59

$ 65,847.80

$ 0.00

$ 270,059.79

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 136,573.12

$ 28,877.48

$ 0.00

$ 107,695.64

\*Research and Equipment

729,667.34(2) (2)06/30/82 Unexpended Balance includes adjustment of $90,000 for the School of Medicine which was Board approved in June 1982 but not included in the June 30, 1982 report.

634,392.97

444,899.00

540,173.37

$ 866,240.46(2)

$ 663,270.45

$444,899.00

$ 647,869.01

$ 1,844,786.93(2)

$1,162,237.47

$809,709.00

$ 1,492,258.46

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the financial report pertaining to funds received from the Estate of John Lee Pratt for the period ended June 30, 1983, be and it is hereby approved.

Unexpended Balance 06/30/821982-83 ExpendituresBoard (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1983-84. Approved AllocationsUnexpended Balance 06/30/83Arts and Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 41,640.30$ 41,031.97$ 53,000.00$ 53,608.33Faculty Salary Supplement4,029.957,605.5524,610.0021,034.40\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment139,363.758,917.169,000.00139,446.59$ 185,034.00$ 57,554.68$ 86,610.00$ 214,089.32ChemistryStudent Support$ 57,834.96$ 56,302.00$ 35,300.00$ 36,832.96Faculty Salary Supplement.240.000.00.24\*Research and Equipment257,008.78182,308.4655,000.00129,700.32$ 314,843.98$ 238,610.46$ 90,300.00$ 166,533.52MathematicsStudent Support$ 75,423.62$ 78,843.72$122,000.00$ 118,579.90Faculty Salary Supplement64,953.7857,985.8765,900.0072,867.91\*Research and Equipment2,383.50124.490.002,259.01$ 142,760.90$ 136,954.08$187,900.00$ 193,706.82PhysicsStudent Support$ 42,246.84$ 14,356.01$ 0.00$ 27,890.83Faculty Salary Supplement22,829.9811,297.000.0011,532.98\*Research and Equipment270,830.7740,194.790.00230,635.98$ 335,907.59$ 65,847.80$ 0.00$ 270,059.79School of MedicineStudent Support$ 136,573.12$ 28,877.48$ 0.00$ 107,695.64\*Research and Equipment729,667.34(2) (2)06/30/82 Unexpended Balance includes adjustment of $90,000 for the School of Medicine which was Board approved in June 1982 but not included in the June 30, 1982 report. 634,392.97444,899.00540,173.37$ 866,240.46(2)$ 663,270.45$444,899.00$ 647,869.01$ 1,844,786.93(2)$1,162,237.47$809,709.00$ 1,492,258.46

Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1983-84.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

06/30/82 Unexpended Balance includes adjustment of $90,000 for the School of Medicine which was Board approved in June 1982 but not included in the June 30, 1982 report.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported on the actions of the Executive Committee regarding:

(a) Approval of Salaries for the President and Chancellor of Clinch Valley College

(b) Approval of Louisiana Property

(c) Loan Application for Dormitory Restorations

(d) Approval of Consulting Services Contract

(e) Selection of Architects for the Replacement Hospital

(f) Confirmation of Establishment of Two Professorships (Walter Reed Professorship in Pathology; Stephen H. Watts Professorship in Surgery)

(g) Change of Name of a Professorship (G. Slaughter Fitz-Hugh Professorship in Otolaryngology)

(h) Approval of Purchase of a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Unit

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTION OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS ON THE SELECTION OF A SENIOR INVESTMENT BANKER
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector reported that the Board of Visitors approved by a mailed unanimous consent the following resolution:

RESOLVED by The Board of Visitors that the firm of Goldman, Sachs & Company be and it is hereby selected as the University's Senior Investment Banker for the replacement hospital project; subject to the approval of the Treasury Board of the Commonwealth.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President advised that there are 39 construction projects under way or in the planning process and four construction projects are under way at Clinch Valley College. He noted that these have been discussed in some detail with the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board.

AAU FACULTY SALARY SCALE
------------------------

The President explained that rankings of the salary scales of the AAU institutions reveal that as of the Fall of 1982, the University of Virginia tied for 25th place out of 50 in average salaries, and was in a three way tie for 26th place in average faculty compensation. He expressed concern about the failure of the University to maintain higher rankings, and he advised that budget planning for the next two years will emphasize the need for substantial increases in faculty salaries.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR BIRDWOOD WATER LINE TO ALBEMARLE SERVICE AUTHORITY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement between the Boar's Head Sports Club, Inc., the University and the Albemarle County Service Authority, which grants a 20-foot easement of right-of-way to construct a 6-inch water line across the property owned by the Boar's Head Sports Club, Inc., to serve the University's Birdwood property, be and it hereby is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute and deliver said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT FOR SEWER LINE TO SERVE BIRDWOOD PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the deed of easement between the University and the Albemarle County Service Authority, which grants a 20-foot easement of right-of-way to install a sanitary sewer line and a water line across the Birdwood property to serve the Birdwood property and to connect with the existing 15-inch sewer line and the existing 10-inch water line, be and it hereby is approved; andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute and deliver said deed of easement.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF WILEY & WILSON FOR PERFORMANCE OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR THE CENTRAL HEATING/CHILLER PLANT, PHASE I
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of Wiley & Wilson of Lynchburg, Virginia, be approved for the performance of engineering and architectural design for the Central Heating/Chiller Plant, Phase I.

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF LBC & W FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING DESIGN FOR THE ADDITION TO THE MEDICAL RESEARCH BUILDING (MR-4)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the firm of LBC & W of Falls Church, Virginia, be approved for the performance of architectural and engineering design for the addition to the Medical Research Building (MR-4).

GIFTS, GRANTS, AND CONTRACTS
----------------------------

The President reported that during the period May 1 and June 30, 1983, the University of Virginia had restricted grants and contracts for research, training, and public service projects under the direction of University faculty members of $8,336,716. Private gifts for the same period came to $2,125,000 An additional sum of $2,103,100 was received between July 1, 1983 and August 31, 1983.

APPROVAL OF STOLE FOR BOARD MEMBERS AS A PART OF THEIR ACADEMIC REGALIA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Following a study of the academic regalia worn by Members of the Board of Visitors at public occasions, and considering objections voiced by Mrs. George M. Cochran to the cape which has been worn by Board Members in recent years, a decision was reached to replace the cape with a stole.

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that an orange and blue stole of an appropriate design and proportions be and it is hereby approved as an accessory to be worn by Members of the Board of Visitors as a part of their academic regalia.

REPORT ON THE UNIVERSITY CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
-----------------------------------------

The President reported to the Board that the Capital Campaign, with a goal of 90 million dollars is progressing well. He said that we already have received 85 million dollars in gifts and pledges.

Vice President Marion B. Peavey expressed satisfaction with the Campaign thus far, but he warned that there is much hard work to do. He said that though some categories of giving have been generously treated by donors, we are far short of our Campaign goals in such important areas as construction of a new hospital, a rare books library, and additions to the Life Sciences building, the School of Commerce and Engineering Research areas. He pointed out also needs for Jefferson Scholar endowment, Miller Center for Public Affairs endowment, and other areas.

He noted that we are now conducting area campaigns and that we must communicate priorities in giving patterns. He said, as he thanked the Board Members for their intense efforts on behalf of the Campaign, that there is tough work ahead. The Rector said that he anticipates that an additional 40 million dollars must be raised.

The President warned that the 10 million dollar loss of appropriations we have experienced as the result of State budget cuts is not in any way helped by the success of the Campaign, since these cuts affect areas of expenditure outside the scope of the Campaign objective. He cited as examples that because of the budget shortfall we must increase class size and leave faculty positions open. Funds from the Campaign cannot be used to alleviate these problems.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the Summary of Audit Reports for the period May 1, 1983, through September 15, 1983, as presented by the Director of Audits, be and it is hereby approved as recommended by the Audit Committee.

APPROVAL OF LEASE OF THE SECOND FLOOR AND PORTIONS OF THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE TOWERS HOSPITAL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the proposed lease between United Service Industries, Inc., and the University of the second floor and portions of the first floor of the property known as the Towers Hospital, 1214 West Main Street, Charlottesville, Virginia, amounting to 17,339 square feet, at a rental of $660,000 per year for a five year term with adjustments in rent related to the Consumer Price Index, be and it hereby is, approved and the appropriate officers of the University be and they hereby are authorized to execute a lease in substantially the same form as the draft exhibited to the meeting. The lease shall be subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

AUTHORIZATION FOR PURCHASE OF PROPERTY AT 229 12th STREET, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the purchase from the Estate of Otis Frye of the premises known as 229 12th Street, Charlottesville, Virginia, shown as Parcel 110 on City Tax Map 10, for $23,250, the offer made by the owner's attorney, be and it hereby is approved, subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, andRESOLVED FURTHER that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute and deliver a deed to said property and to do all things necessary to consummate said sale.

AUTHORIZATION FOR SALE OF 17.387 ACRES OF LAND FROM THE BLUE RIDGE SITE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the sale of the 17.387 acre portion of the Blue Ridge property located north of Interstate 64 and northwest of State Route 20, as authorized in House Bill 575 of the 1982 regular session of the General Assembly, be, and it hereby is, approved and that the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to receive bids and sell said property for a price not less than $350,000.

AUTHORIZATION FOR LEASE OF THE AUGUSTA BUILDING IN RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the proposed lease between Louis A. Marchetti, Jr., and the Estate of Louis A. Castelvecchi and the University of the premises known as the Augusta Building, 4907 Augusta Avenue, Richmond, Virginia, amounting to 2,180 square feet for a rental, negotiated by the Division of Continuing Education, of $16,690.56 per year, be, and it hereby is, approved and the appropriate officers of the University be, and they hereby are, authorized to execute such lease, subject to the approval of the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

APPROVAL OF PROCEDURE FOR APPOINTMENT OF THE NON-VOTING STUDENT ON THE BOARD
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the President will appoint each year in early January a committee charged with recommending names of individuals to be considered for appointment as the non-voting student member on the Board of Visitors.The Student on the Board Committee will be composed of six members, three drawn from the faculty, one of whom, the Vice President of Student Affairs, will serve as Chairman. The other three members will be selected from the student body.The Committee will request nominations from the University community. Nominees need not be undergraduate members of the student body. However, to be eligible, individuals must be full-time students whose degree candidacy is at least one year away from the initiation of their appointment to the Board. Undergraduates must have completed 90 semester hours of coursework by July 1, in the year of their appointment.Three nominees will be recommended to the President by March 15 of each year, with appropriate supporting documentation.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

The following resolution was adopted: RESOLVED that the following persons be and they are hereby elected to the faculty at Clinch Valley College:Mr. Clifford A. Edwards as Lecturer in Computer Science, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.Mr. Patrick W. Smith as Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Clinch Valley College, for one academic year, effective September 1, 1983.

RESIGNATIONS
------------

The following resignations were announced: Mr. Theodore Allen, Associate Professor of Biology, Clinch Valley College, effective July 8, 1983, to accept another position.Mr. Harsh Vardhan, Assistant Professor of Management, Clinch Valley College, effective May 31, 1983, for personal reasons.Mr. Clyde W. Sweet, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Clinch Valley College, effective August 1, 1983, to accept another position.

On motion, the meeting adjourned at 10:45 a.m.

RCB:jb
