---
layout: minutesLayout
year: '1985'
month: 10
tags:
  - minutes
---
Board of Visitors minutes (1985) October 11, 1985
=================================================

board of visitors minutes
-------------------------

University of Virginia, Board of Visitors

October 11, 1985

University of Virginia Library

Charlottesville, Virginia

2005

Board of Visitors minutes
=========================

Public minutes

1 v.

The official minutes contain salary information. Access to minutes containing salary information will be granted only under the procedures of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (Code of Virginia-2.1-340 ff.) or if permission is granted by the Secretary of the Board. Researchers interested in obtaining access to these records should direct a request in writing to the Office of the Legal Adviser, Madison Hall, University of Virginia. These public minutes have had salary information deleted and bear no restrictions.

Board of Visitors' minutes, Accession # RG-1/1/, Special Collections Dept., University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

Minutes of meetings of the university's governing body which is the legal owner and operator of the institution. Recorded in the minutes are appointments and other personnel decisions concerning faculty, decisions about construction of facilities, gifts to the university, and all other board actions, decisions and resolutions.

OFFICIAL MINUTES - TENTATIVE Subject to the Approval of the Board of Visitors THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA October 11, 1985
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 1:00 p.m., in Open Session on October 10, 1985, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Robert M. O'Neil and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Henry A. Dudley, Edward E. Elson, William R. Harvey, Timothy J. Ingrassia, Carl W. Smith, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: James L. Trinkle. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., Ernest H. Ern, Raymond M. Haas, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, and George G. Grattan, IV, were also present.

The Board of Visitors of the University of Virginia met at 3:00 p.m., in Open Session on October 11, 1985, in the East Oval Room of the Rotunda with the following persons present: Rector Fred G. Pollard, President Robert M. O'Neil and John S. Battle, Jr., William M. Camp, Jr., Mrs. George M. Cochran, James S. Cremins, Joshua P. Darden, Jr., Edward E. Elson, Timothy J. Ingrassia, E. Massie Valentine, Neal O. Wade, Jr., Edgar N. Weaver, Jesse B. Wilson, III, and Thomas E. Worrell, Jr. Absent: Henry A. Dudley, William R. Harvey, Carl W. Smith and James L. Trinkle. Messrs. Ray C. Hunt, Jr., George G. Grattan, IV, William H. Muller, Marion B. Peavey, Raymond M. Haas, Ernest H. Ern, and Edwin E. Floyd were also present.

The Minutes of the meeting of May 31, 1985, previously distributed were approved as corrected.

MOTIONS FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
------------------------------

WELCOME TO TIMOTHY J. INGRASSIA AS STUDENT MEMBER OF THE BOARD
--------------------------------------------------------------

The Rector extended a cordial welcome to Mr. Timothy J. Ingrassia as the third student member of the Board. Under Section 2.21 of the Manual, one student member is elected each year to serve a term of one year.

ELECTIONS
---------

ELECTION OF PART-TIME FACULTY
-----------------------------

ELECTION OF NON-SALARIED FACULTY
--------------------------------

ELECTION OF CLINICAL FACULTY
----------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. DONALD BLACK
----------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF DR. R. BEVERLY RANEY, JR.
-------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE ELECTION OF MR. RONALD J. STUMP
-------------------------------------------------

ACTIONS RELATING TO CHAIRHOLDERS
--------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

PROMOTIONS
----------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

CHANGES OF TITLE
----------------

RETIREMENTS
-----------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

CHANGE IN THE APPOINTMENT OF MR. RONALD J. STUMP
------------------------------------------------

The President announced that the appointment of Mr. Ronald J. Stump, as announced to the Board on May 31, 1985, be changed to an appointment as Associate Dean of Students, for three years, effective August 21, 1985.

DEATH OF MR. EDWARD R. SLAUGHTER
--------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MR. TERRANCE W. PRATT
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CORRECTION IN THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE LEAVE OF ABSENCE OF MS. SUSAN TULIS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAC WADE PROFESSORSHIP IN ENGINEERING
----------------------------------------------------------

RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN ARCHITECTURE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THOMAS JEFFERSON MEMORIAL FOUNDATION PROFESSORSHIP IN HISTORY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STUART S. RICHARDSON PROFESSORSHIP OF CLINICAL VIROLOGY IN THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERNAL MEDICINE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE JESSE W. BEAMS PROFESSORSHIP IN PHYSICS
------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISTINGUISHED PROFESSORSHIP IN NEUROSURGERY
----------------------------------------------------------------

CHANGE IN THE DATE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STEPHEN H. WATTS PROFESSORSHIP IN SURGERY
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION
----------------------

The President distributed a report on the status of current construction at the University.

APPROVAL OF AUTHORIZATION OF THE TIAA/CREF RETIREMENT OPTION FOR CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE MATCHING GIFT PILOT PROGRAM
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL REPORT PERTAINING TO EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FROM THE PRATT ESTATEUNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA JOHN LEE PRATT FUNDS AS OF JUNE 30, 1985
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unexpended Balance 06/30/84

1984-85 Expenditures

Board (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1985-86. Approved Allocations

Unexpended Balance 06/30/85

Arts and Sciences Biology

Student Support

$ 41,017.92

$ 44,208.96

$ 47,500.00

$ 44,308.96

Faculty Salary Supplement

17,232.84

20,251.58

15,500.00

12,481.26

\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment

136,926.08

35,771.65

4,683.00

105,837.43

$ 195,176.84

$ 100,232.19

$ 67,683.00

$ 162,627.65

Chemistry

Student Support

$ 15,915.96

$ 14,847.30

$ 25,000.00

$ 26,068.66

Faculty Salary Supplement

.24

6,450.12

15,000.00

8,550.12

\*Research and Equipment

26,084.54

(51,127.81)

82,148.00

159,360.35

$ 42,000.74

$ (29,830.39)

$122,148.00

$ 193,979.13

Mathematics

Student Support

$ 148,762.43

$ 85,924.00

$115,000.00

$ 177,838.43

Faculty Salary Supplement

29,294.86

29,749.95

25,000.00

24,544.91

\*Research and Equipment

31,188.50

28,933.10

5,000.00

7,255.40

$ 209,245.79

$ 144,607.05

$145,000.00

$ 209,638.74

Physics

Student Support

$ 23,550.62

$ (4,595.33)

$ 7,000.00

$ 35,145.95

Faculty Salary Supplement

29,032.98

\----

\----

29,032.98

\*Research and Equipment

201,157.23

113,883.03

125,000.00

212,274.20

$ 253,740.83

$ 109,287.70

$132,000.00

$ 276,453.13

School of Medicine

Student Support

$ 34,366.47

$ 68,949.56

13,010.00

$ (21,573.09)

\*Research and Equipment

417,405.56

219,350.27

$604,946.61

803,001.90

$ 451,772.03

$ 288,299.83

$617,956.61

$ 781,428.81

$1,151,936.23

$ 612,596.38

$1,084,787.61

$1,624,127.46

Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950

$(1,070,894.80)

Net Balance

$ 553,232.66

Unexpended Balance 06/30/841984-85 ExpendituresBoard (1) (1)Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1985-86. Approved AllocationsUnexpended Balance 06/30/85Arts and Sciences BiologyStudent Support$ 41,017.92$ 44,208.96$ 47,500.00$ 44,308.96Faculty Salary Supplement17,232.8420,251.5815,500.0012,481.26\* \*Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts. Research and Equipment136,926.0835,771.654,683.00105,837.43$ 195,176.84$ 100,232.19$ 67,683.00$ 162,627.65ChemistryStudent Support$ 15,915.96$ 14,847.30$ 25,000.00$ 26,068.66Faculty Salary Supplement.246,450.1215,000.008,550.12\*Research and Equipment26,084.54(51,127.81)82,148.00159,360.35$ 42,000.74$ (29,830.39)$122,148.00$ 193,979.13MathematicsStudent Support$ 148,762.43$ 85,924.00$115,000.00$ 177,838.43Faculty Salary Supplement29,294.8629,749.9525,000.0024,544.91\*Research and Equipment31,188.5028,933.105,000.007,255.40$ 209,245.79$ 144,607.05$145,000.00$ 209,638.74PhysicsStudent Support$ 23,550.62$ (4,595.33)$ 7,000.00$ 35,145.95Faculty Salary Supplement29,032.98--------29,032.98\*Research and Equipment201,157.23113,883.03125,000.00212,274.20$ 253,740.83$ 109,287.70$132,000.00$ 276,453.13School of MedicineStudent Support$ 34,366.47$ 68,949.5613,010.00$ (21,573.09)\*Research and Equipment417,405.56219,350.27$604,946.61803,001.90$ 451,772.03$ 288,299.83$617,956.61$ 781,428.81$1,151,936.23$ 612,596.38$1,084,787.61$1,624,127.46Adjustment for Negative Balance in 0-45950$(1,070,894.80)Net Balance$ 553,232.66

Allocations represent amounts approved by Board for 1985-86.

Research and Equipment includes the balances in the clearing accounts.

APPROVAL OF THE 1986-1988 FINANCIAL AND ADDENDUM PROPOSALS FOR THE UNIVERSITY DIVISION, THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS, AND CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF EASEMENT TO ALBEMARLE COUNTY SERVICE AUTHORITY OVER BLUE RIDGE HOSPITAL PROPERTY
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF KAMSTRA-DICKERSON AND ASSOCIATES FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ATHLETIC OFFICES AND MEETING ROOMS/IMPROVED PRACTICE FACILITIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF THE FIRM OF HAYES, SEAY, MATTERN AND MATTERN FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN FOR MODERNIZATION OF THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

REPORT OF THE HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
-----------------------------------------

Bad Debts

$ 6,635,690.55

Indigent Care

12,406,458.15

Total

$19,042,148.70

RESOLUTION OF CONGRATULATIONS TO THE SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AMENDMENT TO THE MANUAL OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS
------------------------------------------------

As required by Section 5.8 of the Manual of the Board of Visitors, 1975, the Executive Committee approved the resolution which follows, and its views on the amendment were sent to the Board along with the notice of the meeting.

APPROVAL OF SUMMARY OF AUDIT REPORTS
------------------------------------

AUTHORIZATION TO MAKE REPORT OF INTERNAL AUDITOR AS A PLANNING DOCUMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROVAL OF LEASES FOR THE SIGMA NU, SIGMA PHI, KAPPA SIGMA AND ZETA PSI HOUSES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ESTABLISHMENT OF A SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON REAL ESTATE
---------------------------------------------------

The Rector announced that under the authority given to him by Section 3.3 of the Manual, he has established a Special Committee on Real Estate. The Committee members are: Carl W. Smith, Chairman, John S. Battle, Jr. and James L. Trinkle.

REPORT ON THE AAU SALARY SCALE
------------------------------

The President advised the Board that when compared to salaries and compensation levels at other AAU institutions, the University of Virginia salary and compensation levels rank slightly below the middle of the group. Mr. O'Neil expressed the hope that if the University is successful in pursuing its budget requests, that next year's salary and compensation levels will rank in the upper half of the group.

RESOLUTION REGARDING ALUMNI ASSOCIATION EXERCISE OF OPTION ON BRUNTON PROPERTY
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As of September 19, 1985, the Alumni Association of the University of Virginia entered into an option agreement with Laura S. Brunton and Laurence A. Brunton. That option agreement covered real estate situated in the City of Charlottesville, Virginia, located at 581 Brandon Avenue and known as part of Lot 6, City Tax Map 11, Parcel 94. The University Administration has decided that it would be in the best interests of the University for the Alumni Association to exercise the option.

GIFTS, GRANTS AND CONTRACTS
---------------------------

The President referred to an extensive report on gifts, grants and contracts covering the period May 1, 1985 through June 30, 1985 and also from July 1, 1985 through August 31, 1985.

The Board adopted a motion to accept these gifts, grants and contracts.

REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT
---------------------

President O'Neil reported that the Development activity has remained most encouraging, even after the formal conclusion of the Capital Campaign. The momentum of private gift support continues at record rates, with $35.2 million received in cash during the fiscal year which ended on June 30. That figure is $3 million above the previous year's receipts.

He said that we are currently reviewing a wide variety of needs developed by the Deans and their colleagues. A draft of a post-Capital Campaign Development Plan has been prepared by Vice President Peavey and his associates, and is now being circulated for comment. There are many needs that have emerged since the Capital Campaign agenda was developed. Several new Deans have taken office within the past two years, and they must have their input in the process. Other needs have changed significantly since the Campaign took shape. Still other needs were not fully funded during the Campaign, and their status must now be reassessed. Currently Vice President Peavey and Vice President and Provost Floyd are meeting individually with each Dean, and Mr. Peavey and Vice President Muller will be doing the same very soon with the units of the Medical Center. From these discussions and others will emerge a coherent post-Campaign Development plan in which he hopes to have a very substantial and personal role of his own.

He also reported on several recent significant gifts to the University. A very substantial state-of-the-art gift of computer equipment, support and personnel from AT&T will greatly enhance our overall University computer capability. This seems destined to be the largest gift ever made by AT&T to a single university.

He noted a recently received one million dollars in cash from the estate of Mrs. Charles Younts of Atlanta, to support construction of the Replacement Hospital.

A $1 million commitment from an anonymous donor will be placed in a permanent unrestricted endowment.

Finally, he said that we will continue to place major emphasis on the funding needed for the $8 million Life Sciences Building. About $1.5 million remains to be raised for this purpose. He said that this facility is absolutely critical for research and advanced study in the life sciences at this University.

REPORT BY THE RECTOR ON THE ACTIONS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------

Brundage Story & Rose

\-$20.5 million

Grantham Mayo

+$10.0 million

Common Fund International

+$ 6.5 million

Fayez Sarofim

+$ 4.0 million

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF NOT EXCEEDING $40,000,000 THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS AND DELEGATING TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF VISITORS THE POWER TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS WITH RESPECT THERETO
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STATEMENT OF THE BOARD ON THE REPORT OF THE PROXY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Visitors is grateful to the Proxy Advisory Committee for its thorough review and analysis of the many facets of the divestment issue. In acknowledging its report we would like to express our sincere appreciation to Mr. Levenson and the Committee members and to recognize formally the untiring manner and dedication in which the Committee has undertaken its study of the question. We acknowledge receipt of petitions and other communications from various groups within the University community and have taken them into consideration in formulating this statement.

As with most members of the University community the Board of Visitors is unanimous in its condemnation of apartheid. The Board has also been cognizant of the concerns within the University community regarding investment of endowment assets in companies doing business in South Africa. For more than four years the Finance Committee of the Board has been acting on proxy resolutions relating to business activities in South Africa based on the studied recommendations of the Proxy Advisory Committee.

The Board has reviewed the report of the Proxy Advisory Committee to the President, heard Mr. Levenson's summary of that report and heard the President's description of the process that could be employed to implement the Committee's recommendations.

As the Committee report so well explains, immediate and complete divestment would be neither practical nor responsible, and would impinge upon the Board's fiduciary responsibilities for the funds subject to its control.

On the other hand, the Board does not wish to be perceived as supporting apartheid and, consequently adopts the Committee's recommended case-by-case approach. Today's holdings in companies which might be studied amount to less than 10% of the endowment portfolio.

It is the intent of the Board for the University to retain its responsibility for the investment of its endowment assets. If the University has an investment in a company which is clearly shown to be acting in a manner which in the Board's judgment lends support to the apartheid system in South Africa, the Board will address the disposal of the investment. To adopt a policy of complete divestment would constitute an improper use of the University endowment fund for political purposes, an irresponsible action in this case, as it would be in others that may arise in the future.

To this end the President is instructed to have the Proxy Advisory Committee, with the assistance of the University's Investment Office, assess carefully information provided to it in the normal course of its activities as well as other information brought to its attention, and after following the process suggested by the Committee and President today, file reports from time to time with the President containing findings, conclusions and recommendations. The Finance Committee will carefully consider such reports along with comments from the administration and make its recommendations to the full Board for action.

CLINCH VALLEY COLLEGE MATTERSELECTIONS
--------------------------------------

RE-ELECTIONS
------------

LEAVES OF ABSENCE
-----------------

RESIGNATIONS
------------

APPOINTMENTS
------------

RE-APPOINTMENTS
---------------

On motion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

RCB:jb

ATTACHMENT SECOND AMENDMENT OF TRUST AGREEMENT FOR POOLED INCOME FUNDWITNESSETH:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS AMENDMENT, made and entered into this \_\_\_\_ day of , 1985, between THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, a Virginia public corporation, the principal office of which is located in Charlottesville, Virginia (the Institution), and UNITED VIRGINIA BANK, a Virginia banking corporation, of Richmond, Virginia (the Former Trustee) and THE CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a Connecticut banking corporation, of Hartford, Connecticut (the Trustee).

The parties desire to amend the trust agreement, dated May 28, 1976, between the Institution and the Former Trustee, to substitute the Trustee for the Former Trustee in such agreement and to make other minor changes therein. The parties desire to amend said agreement as hereinafter set forth.

THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

By Vice-President for Business and Finance

ATTEST:

Secretary

UNITED VIRGINIA BANK

By Vice President and Trust Officer

ATTEST:

Assistant Secretary

THE CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By

ATTEST:

ATTACHMENT A UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE MATCHING GIFT PILOT PROGRAMTHE ISSUE:DISCUSSION:PROPOSAL:SOURCES OF FUNDS:EVALUATION:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

UVA Budget and Planning September 25, 1985

ATTACHMENT B May 19, 1983 UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA CONSOLIDATED ENDOWMENT FUND INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1\. The Consolidated Endowment will be divided into four parts: "equity", "fixed income", faculty mortgage loans, and other internally managed funds.

2\. The "equity fund" is designed to provide long term capital appreciation. It should normally represent 75-80% of total endowment assets at market value. Although the actual percentage of equities and equity reserves will fluctuate with market conditions, levels in excess of 75% will be closely monitored by the Finance Committee and sales will automatically be implemented when the ratio exceeds 85%. The Finance Committee of the Board of Visitors may change any of these ratios at its discretion, but it is anticipated that such changes will be Infrequent.

3\. The investment objective of the "equity fund" is to earn a real total return (adjusted by the Consumer Price Index) equal to the University's spending from endowment. In addition, "equity fund" portfolios should out-perform the S&P 500 stock average net of fees and the A.G. Becker and Cambridge Associates common stock manager means. These objectives are to be measured over running five year periods. It is recognized that the real return objective may be difficult to attain in every five year period, but should be attainable over most five year periods.

4\. "Equity fund" managers would normally invest in common stocks. However, such managers may at their discretion hold investment reserves of either money market instruments or bonds without limitation in terms of asset size or period of time with the understanding that performance will be measured against the common stock indices listed above.

5\. "Equity fund" assets may also be allocated by the Finance Committee to separately managed portfolios of foreign securities excluding ADR's (up to 10% of market value), real estate equities (up to 10% of market value), and venture capital (up to 2% of market value). These ratios are also subject to review by the Finance Committee, but changes are expected to be infrequent.

6\. The purpose of the fixed income portion of Consolidated Endowment is to provide a hedge against deflation and to increase current return relative to an all equity fund. The "fixed fund" should represent 15% or more of total assets. Should mortgage commitments decline below 10% for a significant period of time, the "fixed fund" will be increased by a corresponding percent.

7\. Money market instruments as well as bonds may be used without limitation in the "fixed fund", but equities and convertible bonds are excluded. The "fixed fund" manager is expected to employ so-called active manager techniques such as interest rate anticipation and inter-sectoral arbitrage, but changes in average maturity should usually be moderate and incremental. Since the fund is designed as a deflation hedge, an average maturity of five years would be the minimum. In addition, current coupons and call protection should be emphasized to assure a high and stable level of income.

8\. The investment objective of the "fixed fund" is to outperform the Lehman Brothers/Kuhn Loeb Bond Index net of fees over running five year periods.

9\. With respect to both common stock and bond managers within the "equity" and "fixed" funds, individual security selection, security size and quality, number of portfolio industries or holdings, current income levels, and turnover are left to broad manager discretion, subject to usual standards of fiduciary prudence. An exception is that private placements of any kind, including direct mortgages, may not be purchased. In addition, the use of options and financial futures require Finance Committee approval. Manager policies in these and related areas are attached as Appendix A.

10\. New endowment gifts shall be allocated to individual managers by the Finance Committee after first receiving the advice of the Vice President for Business and Finance. As a general rule, new cash will be used to rebalance the total fund in the direction of a 75-80% permanent equity ratio. Within the "equity fund", new cash will be used to rebalance the portfolio assets of the managers in the direction of maintaining ratios between "core" and "specialty" managers as established by the Finance Committee. These are only general rules, however, and may be disregarded or modified at any time by the Finance Committee with advice from the Vice President for Business and Finance.

11\. The University's faculty mortgage program is designed to assist new faculty in the purchase of homes. The program also serves to dampen the volatility of the portfolio since positions are carried at book value, and to increase current return relative to an all equity fund.

12\. The mortgage program has been capped by the Board of Visitors at $32 million. Should mortgage loans fall below 10% of the total portfolio, the "fixed fund" will be increased by a corresponding percentage.

13\. The investment impact of the mortgage portfolio is moderated by the impact of the bond issue of 1972 that will be outstanding through February 1, 1997. This liability shall be netted when calculating the percent represented by mortgages in the total portfolio but not considered in relation to the $32 million cap.

14\. Both the total fund and the individually managed portfolios will be monitored on a continual basis for consistency in each manager's investment philosophy, return relative to objectives, and investment risk as measured by asset concentrations, exposure to extreme economic conditions, and market volatility. Portfolios will be reviewed by the Finance Committee on a quarterly basis, but results will be evaluated on a running five year cycle.
